ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 17 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2567.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u7	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to announce, after confirmation by the Presidency, that all the groups have withdrawn the amendments to the earthquake decree-law, that the Lega Nord Group also withdraws all the amendments for its own signature, with the exception of 49.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u8	So you withdraw all the amendments except one? On the premise, the Presidency is not in a position to state its position. The amendments tabled are those contained in the published dossier. So, consider what you're gonna do, Senator Comaroli. If you think so, you will be able to make this communication at the beginning of the examination of the articles. Or do we take note of the withdrawal of the amendments? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). As I said, Mr President, my amendments are considered withdrawn if... PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, the Presidency cannot accept this condition. I have confirmed to you that this is not the Presidency's premise, so if you wish, you can once again announce the withdrawal of the amendments when we move on to the articles. Senator Vaccari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak in this debate to highlight some of the most positive aspects that distinguish the two decree-laws that the Budget Commission has examined and amended in 25 points, and brought to the attention of this House. I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Senator Silvio Lai, but also the entire Committee on Budgets for its efforts, even in a very short time, in the examination of a substantial measure, which responds in a concrete way to the urgent and urgent needs of the communities of five regions so badly affected by the succession of dramatic events, before the end of August and after the end of October. We have seen how, in the aftermath of those terrible shocks, the national civil protection system has been able to respond with efficiency and effectiveness once again from the first moments following the different earthquakes that have occurred, proving to be, in the eyes of the national community but also international, a flagship of our country. I believe that our most heartfelt thanks must go to the entire national civil protection system. I was sorry to hear some of my fellow Members say in this House that they were very disconcerting about the national civil protection system's ability to meet the expectations and needs of the citizens affected by the earthquake. An articulated system, which is the head of the national civil protection department that coordinates a series of subjects, of course the National Firefighters' Corps, but also the system of volunteering and civil protection. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u10	Colleagues, it is not possible to work with this buzz. I would ask you to allow Senator Vaccari to speak. I'm also addressing the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u11	VACCARI (PD). Thank you, Mr President, also because I cannot raise my voice any longer. I was therefore saying that this is a national civil protection system made up of different subjects: the National Firefighter Corps, the system of local authorities and the mobile civil protection columns belonging to the Regions, the system of national civil protection volunteering, which we saw in a timely way coming immediately into the municipalities affected by the earthquake. I believe that for these reasons it was right for my colleague Cardinali to reiterate yesterday the actions put in place immediately in coordination with the five Presidents of the Regions and the government commissioner for reconstruction, Vasco Errani, who jointly tried, on the one hand, to give immediate assistance to the population and, on the other hand, linking the answers to the emergency and to the path of reconstruction. This is to allow a quick return to normality for citizens and businesses and to start the early stages of temporary accommodation, also starting from the checks on the agibility that will determine the next phase of reconstruction. We believe that the Government has worked and is working well and that today, through the approval of this important decree-law, it is useful to place in the hands of the extraordinary Commissioner, of the five Presidents of the Region and of the Mayors as sub-commissaries, instruments better adapted and corresponding to the expectations, as well as the decree aims to do, as well as the resources able to meet all the needs related to the assistance to the population and the punctual start of the phase of reconstruction. I want to reiterate, because the rapporteur has already focused on the point in his report, the fact that the decree has been inspired by the best experiences of post-sysm reconstruction (and not only), but also those related to the great events that our country has been able to put on the field, taking the best from those experiences and innovating further with the idea that through this work we can also improve the capacity with which local communities are put in a position to meet the expectations of their citizens and their businesses. There are, in my opinion, five imperatives that this decree has been inspired by. The first is the maximum quality of the efficiency of the interventions, with the greatest possible respect for the identity of the places and buildings. It is this principle that is inspired by several articles of the measure that we are discussing and which, I hope, we will approve today. The second imperative concerns the empowerment of local communities and of all institutional levels present. I believe that the decree does so in a very punctual way, relying also on the path that has seen in particular in Emilia-Romagna the direct involvement, starting from the Commissioner, of all institutional levels in a permanent seat, that in this decree-law has been identified in four regional fora that are headed by the Presidents of the Regions with the direct involvement of the local authorities in the determination of the implementing orders consequent to the decree. The third imperative concerns transparency, which is achieved through the use of IT platforms for the management of all resources and the punctual reporting of all interventions. It is closely linked to the fourth, relating to the legality and the contrast to the infiltrations of organized crime through the creation of mechanisms of selection and control of the companies entrusted with the work and the identification, at the Ministry of the Interior, of a special office able to coordinate all the Forces of the order and all the institutions through a sharing of the information and the databases in order to make the work of verification, selection and control more streamlined, starting from the goodness of the enterprises that will have to act in this territory. In fact, as we know, where there are many public resources, the interest of criminal organisations increases as well as their ability to adapt to the rules, to circumvent them and to build ways of insertion and infiltration to which we must oppose the highest barriers and the most advanced regulatory and cultural instrumentation possible. Finally, the fifth imperative criterion to which this decree is based is fairness, i.e. the payment of what citizens and businesses expect in proportion to the damage their offices and businesses have suffered. Of course, in addition to this, there are compensations for everything that is public heritage and that we know to be of great value, especially from the cultural point of view, in a territory that has made environmental and cultural excellence a reason for pride and promotion of an important sector such as tourism. Therefore, the work carried out around these five imperatives by the Government and the Budget Commission is absolutely valuable. In the Commission, some of our demands, some corrections and proposals for integration have undoubtedly improved the text compared to the first version proposed, with the aim, in particular, of restarting in this part of Italy the factory of the territory, that is, the agricultural production heritage, the farms and the system downstream of transformation and conservation, which is of quality and distinguishes the food excellences that, together with the environmental and cultural beauties, also for this part of Italy, represent the Made in Italy in the world and, for this territory so severely affected, are fundamental element of future tourist attraction. The Commission, also with regard to some of the amendments I have tabled, accepted some of the proposals which I wanted to take up again, particularly those relating to the discipline of the tax system concerning liberal donations made by various organizations, from foundations to non-profit organisations, to government administrations, trade unions and trade unions. In these weeks and months they have made efforts, and are still doing so, to gather resources to be made available to specific projects. On this point, the amendment proposed and accepted in the Commission aims to improve transparency and also support for people affected by calamitous events. Again, on the issue of the sums collected by means of donations, another amendment by my signature wanted to ensure that these sums were impeccable, in analogy with what is already being done in other territories, in the management of the extraordinary accounts linked to the power of the extraordinary Commissioner. I am very pleased that an amendment has also been accepted which has set itself the objective of allowing the reuse of materials produced by the collapses, which can be recovered and reused on the same site or on other sites, because of value both for the material and for the history that refers to those properties. The Commission also accepted and approved an amendment prohibiting the installation of slot machines in the territories affected by the earthquake until 31 December 2017. Just in the days immediately following the shocks of 24 August, in fact, some companies in the sector have worked to make available spaces for the relocation of offices and public services, but with the request to also provide spaces for the relocation of these machines. We tried to prevent it in order to protect and put in condition those populations, who live a condition of difficulty and certainly have a greater availability of free time, not to be conditioned by these offers of leisure and use of their own time. The aim of the amendments that I have tabled and which have been accepted is to extend them to previous events, but especially to those that we deal with in this decree, the authorisation to dispose of the property in the ownership of the State, assigned to the territorial authorities and no longer usable for the functional needs of the State administrations, with the possibility of putting them back into play where it has been declared, in particular, the state of emergency and where the usefulness of these uses has been found in the context of the emergency managements. It is another of those proposals that has tried to make a further contribution to the instrumentation with which we are trying to provide timely responses to citizens and businesses so badly affected by the earthquake. The work done on the decree-law also follows the discussion held in this Assembly on the prospect, which the Government has given, of indicating a great project of reconstruction through the symbol of Casa Italia. These were the indications that the decree-law was able to collect, intervening also on some of those points that in that discussion we had put at the center of the commitments collected by the government, now engaged in a strict response to this emergency. At the same time, however, the Commission has started a very important work to put in place a series of preventive measures and actions aimed at the seismic improvement of our country's buildings and the safety of the most vulnerable territories. This work had already been anticipated through various measures, but now the Government has had to systematize it within a single project that has involved all the stakeholders of our country and that is involving the highest competences of our universities and our universities and that I believe can produce a fundamental qualitative leap for all future prevention measures compared to events such as those that unfortunately have hit the territory of Central Italy so hard. I am thinking, for example, of the fiscal opportunities already offered by the law of stability, extending the benefits of ecobonus also to measures relating to the safety of seismic buildings, for example as regards condominiums and hotel facilities. I believe that for these reasons too, the work that is being done will be absolutely consistent with this great planning that the Government wanted to put in place. It is a challenge that we can all win together by joining the best forces and skills already at work in the five Regions in order to succeed in putting in place a fast, effective and also qualitatively high path, of reconstruction and at the same time to give a good example to the whole country of how we can make reconstruction and secure the territory for the future. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u12	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u13	Colleagues, I renew the call to reduce the buzz, otherwise a level of noise is determined which makes it impossible for speakers to make their speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u14	Madam President, representatives of the Government, rapporteur, colleagues and colleagues, I shall make a very brief speech, starting from the consideration for which it is certainly appreciated that the political forces have agreed to follow this path, so to speak, simplified. In fact, the withdrawal of all the amendments, i.e. most of them, gives the legislative process a speed clearly aimed at intercepting more quickly the needs of these populations, which have been severely affected by dramatic seismic events. This is a gesture that responds positively to the sentiments of solidarity expressed immediately after the very serious earthquake and that declines the principles of respect for our unfortunate brothers who have lived and live this situation of difficulty. We, as the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, have withdrawn the few amendments aimed at improving the quality of the text: we take responsibility for the principle that the best is the enemy of the good. However, also for the benefit of the Assembly Report and for the value of the Report of Parliamentary Proceedings in a fruitful, productive and useful discussion, I would draw the attention of the Government and the rapporteur to three points, with a very rapid evaluation that starts from the need to harmonize the content of Article 5 with that of Article 14. Both articles refer to the reconstruction and the initiatives that the Italian State (in this case the Government and we of Parliament with the Government) intends to carry out in order to give effective and timely implementation to the reconstruction activities. Well, with regard to the reconstructions referred to in Article 5, which refer to the private sector, a reference to private health and social health care structures is expressly provided for. In Article 14, however, the public sector reconstruction activity is generic, since it does not make a specific reference to that part of reconstruction related to a sector which is particularly relevant. In addition to the schools, which are specifically mentioned, it does not appear in a precise and precise manner (as I think it is appropriate and, in unanimous votes, the whole of the 12th Commission) the fact of noting a reference to the health and social health structures operating in that territory that obviously need structural interventions. This is the first request that I entrust to the rapporteur: the possibility of Article 14 expressly referring to the construction of buildings that carry out health and social health-care activities. The second point is as follows: We need to understand what is happening in the health sector, what is the damage caused to public health and socio-health structures, because only by monitoring the effects (unfortunately in some dramatic cases) that have occurred on health structures, do we have the opportunity to understand the extent of the damage and to allocate the sums accordingly. Therefore, with regard to this point: monitoring of the state of health of buildings intended for health care; identification and economic assessment of the damage; allocation of appropriate economic resources. The last point I would like to make relates to sub-amendment 1,1000/19. With it I wanted to ask that in the countries evacuated for safety reasons, those in which the migration of the population is destined to become permanent and irreversible (Arquata del Tronto, to mention one country among all) and in which the density of population no longer allows the survival, for example, of a pharmacy, there is the possibility that it is expressly provided, by way of derogation from the current legal provisions, in particular Article 5 of Law No 362 of 1991 on decentralisation, the possibility of a transfer beyond the borders of the municipality. With regard to this amendment, the Government and the rapporteur have expressed their opposition to the view that the objective of my amendment runs counter to the need to maintain, where possible, all basic services within the municipality. There is no doubt that the government's position is reasonable and acceptable, but, of course, the amendment I have proposed refers to very particular cases, such as the presence of a public service such as pharmacy - as is known, moreover, it operates under a concessionary regime on a private initiative - can remain when there is the population; but if the population is no longer there, then we must guarantee the conditions for the practice of pharmacy to continue to carry out its activity even beyond that municipality which has depleted itself of population, perhaps guaranteeing the residual, minimal population left in the municipality to which we refer the pharmacy service through the establishment of a dispensary. These are the three points that I believe are useful to evaluate and that I entrust to the considerations and determinations that the Government and the rapporteur will want to take in this or in other measures, reserving, myself, to re-examine the solution of these three issues. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u15	We greet the mayors and councillors of Val Serina and Oltre il Colle, in the province of Bergamo, who are present in the gallery and attend our work, among which is the mayor of Oltre il Colle, who is our former colleague, Senator Carrara. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to add a few comments on something that was discussed yesterday, particularly by Senator Valeria Cardinali, but also by my colleagues, Mr Rizzotti and Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri. I am referring to the health structures to which some attention has been paid within this measure. This is an important measure, which has been greatly improved in the House and which will be further improved by the work of the Budget Commission, because it not only shows that it is paying attention to the serious problems of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, but also because it defines an innovative process on how emergency situations are to be dealt with. The measure - as the Health and Health Commission unanimously stressed in the opinion sent to the Commission budget - has a weakness: attention to health structures and, in general, to the role of the health system at a time of great difficulty such as that of disasters. And that is clear from the simple fact that unfortunately this measure was adopted by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers without the agreement with the Minister of Health. The Ministry of Health is absent and attention is absent to health structures and policies that, under emergency conditions, need to be adopted to guarantee people in need full access to care. I would like to stress a few aspects which are probably unknown to those who are not specifically involved in the work. Just on the day of the 2009 Eagle earthquake, the World Health Organization stated that it would dedicate the World Health Day to the safety of health facilities, with the aim of ensuring that health facilities are adequately prepared for emergencies. Indeed, as the World Health Organization rightly pointed out on that occasion, hospitals are not structures like all the others: they are structures which, precisely in the event of disasters, earthquakes and situations of great difficulty, must be able to guarantee the reception and assistance of people and, therefore, must be safer - if we can say so - than any other structure. Otherwise, as happened in the territories during the disaster of L'Aquila and also recently, if hospitals collapse, people - and there are many - need to receive assistance must be transferred far away and, therefore, the difficulties are even greater. Well, let me ask you to pay two minutes of attention, because this country cannot continue to forget the problem of the safety of health facilities in areas at risk of natural disasters. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Rizzotti]] I am talking about legislation that has long been absent from the central and regional levels. There is an order of the President of the Council of 2003 that established that, within five years, and therefore by 2008, it was necessary to proceed to the evaluation of the state of safety against the seismic action both of the buildings of strategic interest and the infrastructural works, whose functionality during the seismic events assumes fundamental importance for the purposes of civil protection, both of the buildings and the infrastructural works that can assume importance in relation to the consequences of a possible collapse. We were in 2003 and we had to proceed by 2008, but this has not been done. A 2008 law, Law No 31, moved the deadline to 31 December 2010 and then that deadline was subsequently moved again to 31 March 2013. And we're still standing there. Yesterday I very much appreciated Amendment No 14.0.1 which was approved by the Budget Commission, at the first signature of Senator Mandelli (who I have signed), who calls for this process to be resumed and concluded within eighteen months. Let's hope this is the good time. However, we cannot continue not to deal with health facilities in seismic risk areas, especially those defined as seismic risk 1 and 2. It is precisely for this reason that I believe that the neglect of health policies and the lack of the Minister of Health, within the framework of the measure we are dealing with, is serious. And it is particularly serious that Article 14 - as other Members have already said - is not expressly mentioned - it is a condition unanimously voted on by the Senate Health Commission - among the public buildings that will have to be the subject of attention for public restructuring, hospital facilities and the remaining health and social health facilities. We call for this to be included expressly, so that this forgetfulness can be remedied. But above all, we ask that the entire Government and the Ministry of Health subsequently monitor these actions, since we have been waiting for them for thirteen years now, and that at least the important buildings in the seismic zones be rebuilt in the event of natural disasters, so that they can withstand any seismic event. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u17	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u18	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur for the measure, Mr Lai, for having followed the work so far in an absolutely excellent way; among other things, in yesterday's presentation he gave absolute weight to the content of the decree-law. It proves that, both for this reason and also for the sense of responsibility of the entire Parliament, a substantial withdrawal of most of the amendments is being made today, precisely because there is the point that the measure is quite well constructed and balanced on the one hand and that on the other hand this is an issue that cannot see a divisive policy at all, but rather must seek reasons for unity of intent and must conclude its own process in the shortest possible period. It is clear, in fact, that the territories of the areas concerned are asking for answers to politics: these territories are absolutely devastated, among other things with winter at the gates (and it will be a very difficult winter). This I say, of course, because I also come from an area that experienced a similar tragedy 50 years ago (48 years ago), and I still have full and alive memory, when, on 14 and 15 January 1968, about 30-40 countries of Sicily were irreversibly devastated. The measure under consideration is absolutely well-built and focuses on a number of issues: among them I want to highlight the steering booth and the unique purchasing power stations. Above all, however, it must be emphasized what appears throughout the measure, reading it article by article, that is, the need for the territories to be protagonists of the reconstruction and that it passes from the awareness of the mayors, local administrators and also of the citizens. It is a strong desire to recover memory, to reconstruct where it was and how it was and not to disperse not only the historical and monumental goods, but above all the cultural identity and the sort of social and sociological stratification that has held together, over the centuries and millennia, the populations of the Apennines. I don't want to go too far in explaining the measure. There are, of course, points that I think could have been better explored, but very often the best is the enemy of good and, above all, the enemy of possible, and as we know politics very often is the art of possible. I therefore ask the Presidency to be able to deliver the written text of my speech, so that it can be published in the Reports of today's sitting. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u19	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u20	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u21	Madam President, the measure under consideration stems from the merger of the disastrous Decree-Law n.189 of 2016 with Decree-Law n. 205 of 2016, which certainly integrates and improves the earthquake measure. This is another missed opportunity to face a dramatic natural disaster, as were the earthquakes of 24 August and 26 and 30 October, in a correct, fast and effective way: earthquakes that produced 200 deaths, 50 billion euros of damage and so much fear. It will take years to erase from the minds and hearts of the people of Marche, Umbria, Lazio and Abruzzo the terror that these events have caused hundreds of thousands of people. We cannot deal with such a great tragedy in this way. This measure is illegible, it will make reconstruction long, difficult, perilous and complicated. Three months have already passed since the first event and everything is still still: we are still at zero point. We are faced with an illegible, redundant, excessive structure based on mistrust, mistrust and the culture of suspicion. First of all, we cannot proceed quickly with a number of bureaucratic structures and superstructures such as those contained in the measure under consideration: extraordinary commissioner, head of the Civil Protection Department, fire department, deputy commissioners, Special Office for Reconstruction, Integrated Operating Room (SOI), Directorate of Command and Control (DICOMAC), Single Door for Production Activities (SUAP), Permanent Conference, Joint Committees, single central commission, mission structure, Central Interforce Group for Emergency and Reconstruction in Central Italy (JICERIC), various opinions and superintendence. Do you have a fever? What a mess! Is it possible that we cannot make a clear protocol, that is understandable to the citizen in order to have access to the resources provided for in the measure? I'm afraid the reconstruction will last like Belice's. With this measure you have given the image of a country to the wreck, in which no one can be trusted, neither the citizens, nor the businesses, nor the professionals. It's the country you've achieved in the last twenty years. For five years governed in an undisputed and undisputed way the country: managed the State, the Regions, the Provinces, the Municipalities, the municipalized, the participated. You're the one who runs all the contracts in the country. You have appointed an extraordinary commissioner because you do not trust your regional presidents, all four of the PD, otherwise you do not understand the reason why you have done so, since in the last thirty years the regional presidents have managed all the natural disasters in the country. We are not against Errani, who is certainly an authoritative and competent person, but we do not understand the exauteration and mortification of the Presidents of the Region, who know the territory well and who at this moment have nothing else to do, because by now the Regions are reduced to health companies and have little to legislate; just look at the agendas of the regional councils. You've invented another unique purchasing power station, because you don't trust the provincial ones that are already operating. Do not trust ANAC, because you have set up a special mission structure at the Ministry of the Interior, managed by Prefect Tronca, to combat organised crime in the custody of works and services for reconstruction. Do not trust companies, because you want to set up a white list for economic operators interested in participating in any public and private reconstruction activity and intervention; but if a company does not operate properly it must be disbarred from any register and must do neither public work nor private work: a company of scoundrels must stop working. You do not trust professionals who are registered in the professional register, because you want to establish a special list of professionals, adopted by the Commissioner for Reconstruction after a specific public call. You have even written, in Article 35 of the Decree-Law, on the protection of workers, that workers engaged in reconstruction work must be recognized the economic and regulatory treatment provided for in their national employment contracts. Why, if they do not work for the earthquake, can they derogate from employment contracts? But what nonsense did you write in this provision? You also wrote that, in order to work on the post earthquake reconstruction, you need to be in compliance with the DURC. Why, if you work to make a sidewalk, don't you have to be in compliance with the DURC? Don't trust the mayors. All you want to do is make the citizens believe that everything is in place and that with you the legality is assured. You want to deceive the citizens that everything will be rebuilt and everything will be compensated. Actually, you know that won't be the case. We asked you, through a number of amendments, to improve the measure by making more appropriate and appropriate choices. You didn't want to hear reason. As far as resources are concerned, the Civil Protection has estimated that damage to the earthquake of Amatrice has occurred for 7 billion euros, while with the shocks of 26 and 30 October, given the importance and the territorial extension, it will be necessary altogether six or seven times as much. This calamitous event will cost at least 50 billion and you plan to do the reconstruction with 1.5 billion? You asked the European Commission for a 0.2% flexibility of EUR 3.4 billion for the earthquake. What happened to the other 2 billions granted by the European Union? In essence, the resources you have allocated are responsive to the damage to be repaired and to the announcements of the President-in-Office of the Council to compensate for all the damage. With what resources? With the planned ones? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Then there is the problem of the crater: you have identified a crater that has serious gaps and injustices. Many municipalities, although having suffered damage, have remained outside the crater. We have the well-founded suspicion that you have made choices on the basis of political reasons, rather than on clear and objective criteria. We made you a revolutionary, extraordinary proposal. We have suggested to you, in order to cope with the housing emergency, to acquire for rent or to buy thousands of agible properties present in the territory affected by the seismic crisis before consuming other soil, do other urbanization and buy houses and wooden boxes. You said no. It's obvious. You have already ordered without invitation and there is a special question in Parliament about this. The Consorzio nazionale servizi di Bologna has awarded a call for tenders of 1.2 billion for the supply and installation of 18,000 housing modules. The National Consortium services and Manutencoop have already been sanctioned by the Competition and Market Authority with a total fine of 110 million euros for having agreed to condition a public invitation to tender banned by Consip. You are interested in the legality of others and not in the respect of your procedures. You said no to this proposal, too. We asked you to consider the professionals who have lost studies and customers while maintaining operating costs, for which it is certainly not enough the one-off 5,000 euros expected because it will take years to get back to normal. I have limited myself to these elements in order to express an absolutely contrary opinion on the measure. We await the outcome of some of the amendments that we are still debating, but I fear that my vote will be negative. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u22	We address a greeting to the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Sinopoli Ferrini" in Rome who are present today in our work. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u23	Colleagues, I inform you that, by the unanimous agreement of the Groups, the afternoon sitting will continue without interruption and closing hours in a single sitting with the items already on the agenda. The Commissions meeting 5a and 6a are authorized to convene - and only these Commissions - to conclude the examination of the decree-law in tax matters.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u24	Let us continue with the general discussion. Senator Lucherini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, we have done an important unitary work in the Commission, with the exception of the positions that Senator Ceroni has reiterated here in this House. The work is useful because I believe it is important that the Senate, in this first passage of the two decree-laws, demonstrates a high level of unity with respect to the measures under discussion that we must approve quickly to put those who are on the territory (civil protection, state apparatuses, mayors and volunteers) in the condition of having quickly available resources and certainties to operate with great incisiveness. I believe that we have done a good job and we will continue in this direction by voting together on the measure. In doing so, Parliament is a result of the great unitary movement of commitment recorded in the country. I believe that all of us, after the discouragement, worry and fear after the earthquake, were proud of the way our country responded, of the way in which the volunteers, the people and the state responded with its apparatus, starting with civil protection. This has been echoed in the national and foreign press. Once again the Italians' ability to be together and to respond to emergencies and tragedies has been exalted, demonstrating a great sense of belonging, participation and commitment; a sense of belonging that has been precisely of the Italians in the many tragic events in our country in the recent past. Alongside all this there has been a great demonstration of efficiency by the state's apparatuses. Today our Civil Protection is the most organised at European level and is able to respond in a few hours to emergencies. A few hours after the first earthquake shocks, the volunteers and members of the Civil Protection were already present on the affected territories, working with residents to try to solve the problems and to ensure that the number of victims was the least possible and that the wounded were hospitalized and cured. I believe that this level of intervention can be an important reference for all of us. In Italy, however, this has not always been the case. I would like to address Mr Ceroni and the other senators who have mentioned previous disastrous events. I remember - with me I think many others can remember - the earthquake of Irpinia and what happened in the following days, with the total absence of the State. Days passed before, in so many municipalities, there was minimal intervention and the populations were left behind. President Pertini was the only one able to represent the State in those territories that were in a situation of disrepair and abandonment. The government had to resign after the words of President Pertini and after that earthquake started a movement of distrust towards the State. Today exactly the opposite has happened. We have shown that the state is there, is efficient and intervenes, as demonstrated also during previous events (I refer, in particular, to the earthquake in Emilia). And from this point of view, as representatives of Parliament, we can assess the remarkable step forward that our country has been able to make in recent years, leading to a change. The earthquake was disastrous. I remember that, only in Amatrice, the earthquake of August 24 caused 240 deaths. The vast majority of the deaths were recorded in Lazio, in the two municipalities of Amatrice and Accumoli, overwhelmed in the night by a disastrous shock. Moreover, it is thanks to that earthquake that the successive earthquakes of magnitude 6.5 in October did not cause further deaths, since in the meantime the residents had left the houses and left the historical centers; an earthquake that, once again, hit the Apennines and the center of Italy, a point of confluence between four Regions (Abruzzo, Marche, Lazio and Umbria), a very fragile territory, subject to phenomena of abandonment and depopulation, with economies that hold the weight of the crisis with difficulty. But we have been able to intervene quickly in those territories and, with the two decree-laws under consideration, we are now in a position to carry out a model that aims at the reconstruction of the historical centers that, in those realities, are the symbol of the municipal identity and must remain so, with their artistic and architectural heritage. And the model that the decree-law assumes as a reference is that already experienced in Emilia, which has given great results. In the face of these emergencies, Parliament will have to work. And - as the rapporteur, Mr Lai, who has done a great deal of work on the two decree-laws in question, has also said - we must aim to have a framework law on national emergencies, to which we can then "attach" the various measures whenever it is necessary to intervene for such events. In the same way, we must be able to experience a long-term intervention - for which we fought in Italy, but also within the European Union - which has been illustrated here by our colleague, Mr Renzo Piano. I am referring to the Casa Italia project, a project that must commit a generation to secure the entire Apennines, all the historic centres of the municipalities that are located within the areas with high seismic risk: an important intervention that must have a strong commitment on the part of the European Union. I think it was very good for Renzi to put this issue also within the draft budget law as discriminatory. We cannot continue to finance a Europe that does not think about earthquakes, schools that are at risk in Italy. Those resources must serve the great prevention plan Casa Italia, the intervention that we must do in our country. The earthquake has meant a great deal of commitment to the institutions and I believe that the decree-law that we are about to approve is important because it contains certain decisions. I remind Senator Ceroni - he wondered why we appointed Errani as commissioner - that the reasons were explained by the government. First of all, Errani demonstrated great capacity and commitment in the recent earthquake of Emilia, where he was Commissioner as President of the Region. Secondly, it was wrong, for an earthquake involving four Regions, to appoint the four Presidents of the Region as Commissioners. It was more useful - and it has been done - to appoint Errani commissioner and the Presidents of the four Vice-Commission Regions, with the full consent of the same. I repeat that we must take long-term action and conclude by recalling an issue that has been raised by me and other Senators of Lazio in relation to the debate on the amendments. We have tabled an amendment for an intervention which I consider to be fundamental on the Salaria state road. As we have seen, in the days following the earthquake we had additional difficulties because of the landslides and disruptions that took place along the only road that connects Lazio with the Adriatic, the old Salaria consular that the Romans used to go to get salt and bring it to Rome from the Adriatic. This road still runs, roughly, along the old route of Roman times, which we have seen to be weak, fragile and which is the only road that connects, those municipalities. The amendment was aimed at requesting intervention from the Government in order to restructure, secure and strengthen this Apennine dorsal: no, it was not possible to approve it because it was outside the competence of the decree-law and was therefore transformed into an agenda. I hope that the Government will follow the favourable opinion expressed in the Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u26	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u27	Madam President, I will be brief because the debate has been very important. First of all, I would like to thank all those who have spoken to make a contribution and then to collect two issues that emerged from the debate. The health committee's request is right and I have tabled an amendment as rapporteur to understand the need for the reconstruction of hospitals to be highlighted, including in public reconstruction, which also included it. As regards health, I would like to reply to Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri, pointing out that the Commission - as some colleagues have already said in the debate - has planned an evaluation of the state of hospitals in those seismic zones and has been entrusted directly to the Commissioner with the task of predicting that this is part of the whole reconstruction. The reconstruction - I want to stress this - must have particular attention to the places of culture. In particular, I want to remember the University of Camerino which was the most damaged and was also the first to resume its ordinary work, giving the feeling of continuity of the life of young university students and their teachers. As a last point (we have not succeeded in the Commission, but it is a delicate point) I stress the importance of addressing the issue of the stable safety of earthquake-stricken areas, namely the urban planning forecasts of additional structures that can allow a constant salvation of people: structures on which the urban theme needs to be deepened. I want to say this because we must aim for an idea of resilience of those territories, the ability to resist the continuous solicitation that can come there. It is a more general theme of Italy's ability to resist climate change, to adapt cities and communities, but in this case and in those territories it must be thought of as resilience to the stress of the earthquake. I have tabled a second amendment which I would like to inform the House, which is shared by the Budget Committee and which simply concerns a correction of the experienced staff from the city of L'Aquila to support the reconstruction practices of the earthquake in central Italy; instead of the City of L'Aquila, they are taken from the crater. These are ten people who will help Commissioner Errani train the other people who will work on the reconstruction. I still thank all the political groups for the important signal that has been given. The withdrawal of all the amendments is not trivial: it means that, in the face of an event like this, the unity of Parliament and politics is a sign of hope for all peoples.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u28	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u29	Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur. My reply will be brief, but it cannot but start from an act of non-formal thanksgiving, as well as institutional, and therefore personal, to the members of the Senate Budget Committee, its President and the parliamentary groups that make up this Assembly for the extraordinary willingness shown in the work of the Commission to prepare today for the first approval of the decree-law under consideration, which represents for our country an advanced point in dealing with the emergencies that, unfortunately, in the last seven years, we have had to live and deal with already three times. I repeat that my thanks are not formal, because it shows that the verbal commitments made by all the groups have then been reduced in reality and in the concreteness of a fruitful work of the Commission that this House will see realized today through the vote that we will face in a few minutes. I would like to focus on a number of issues that have been correctly taken up by my fellow senators in this House on the issues dealt with in the Decree-Law. With regard to the enlargement of the crater, the passage between Decree-Law No 205 of 2016 and the amendment submitted by the Government to the Commission on the size and breadth of the crater provides that the second crater is institutionalized by law and does not remain, as provided for in Decree-Law No 205, within the framework of an identification relating to the technical report only for economic and financial quantifications. This is a correct choice, according to the Government, but it does not make the size of the crater unmovable. As happened - alas - even in recent earthquakes, it can happen that checks are still being carried out on the agibility, levels and quantities of damage, and especially on the number of people who will not be able to return to their homes. It is therefore quite clear that the process and the path used so far to identify the municipalities of the crater can be put back in the field, as it has already happened, through the role played by the vice-commissaries, who are the four Presidents of the Region, to whom it has already been entrusted the identification of the perimeter of the first crater. The second question is linked to the way in which, within this decree, we will recognize the damage to individuals, therefore to people with their homes, first and second homes, and also to productive activities. There are two aspects that I think I need to focus in this House in such a way that they remain on the record. Firstly, the method: the tax credit, by which we will pay contributions for interventions, does not affect the tax capacity of the credit holders. Indeed, in tax terms, the credit will be paid by the banks to which the credit-holder taxpayer will give up the redemption path. This means that, in fact, the person who is entitled to it will receive the resources directly to his current account, regardless of his capacity and his tax status. We have concentrated on this issue in the Commission and we have clarified ourselves. It is good that this House has very clear this way that we have already used twice: after the earthquake in Emilia and for the implementation, precisely these days, of the reform made to restore the 48 territories in a state of flood emergency, reform passed in the Council of Ministers on 28 July of this year. In addition, I think it is important to remember the private subjects who will be entitled to this refund, because inside the crater there is a 100% guarantee for the first and second houses, but also outside the crater, however, as regards the second house, they will be entitled to compensation of 100% of the damages all the second houses located in the historical centers, in the villages and neighborhoods of the municipalities out of crater that have had damage from level B up and also all the scattered houses that have had damage in case the same are rented. So only houses in which no one resides and which are second homes will be reimbursed at 50%, because all the others will be rebuilt with a State charge of 100% of the expenditure. I cannot fail to stress here the great work that has been developed on production activities. There has also been a very, very active debate on this issue in the Commission. There are two articles, the 24th and the 25th, which - in fact - recognize to the whole audience of productive activities a support intervention at this stage of production and we have given confirmation to fellow commissioners that structural interventions for reconstruction will be on all categories and types of productive activities. In fact, as far as the question of agriculture is concerned (which is very felt for the type of economy of the territory where the earthquake occurred in central Italy), they are already in preparation and in days will be published the ordinances that implement the first decree-law, n. 189, and the second decree-law with the enlargement of the crater. The first is that the existing rule, with the specification contained in the amendment that we are going to approve in this House, also applies to workers who are not part of exquisitely productive activities, for example those who work in homes, such as caregivers. Since the quantification provided for by the Ministry of Economy covered all, an amendment was adopted which specifies and clarifies that this measure concerns all employees. In addition, we have introduced, throughout 2017, the so-called heavy paycheck, that is the possibility of not having retained for employees by the substitute tax, with an amendment that we will then vote on in this House today. The last question, which is not final and with which I conclude my speech, is the question of institutional aspects. With our work in the Commission, we have clarified the depth of the relationship between the Commissioners' decisions and the local authorities, which are the real advanced front, both on the emergency phase, which is what we are still experiencing, and on the reconstruction phase. And it is no coincidence that the combined arrangement of the two decrees, therefore the text that we are going to vote on today, guarantees the municipalities a strong increase in staff, because many of the municipalities of the crater are very small and had very limited staff. Through this decree-law and other measures, such as the refreshment of the cuts of the Solidarity Fund and the budget law (on which we have committed ourselves, with the senators, to add some measures), we are going to intervene directly on the life of the municipalities. For example, already in this decree-law we postpone some activities that, in bureaucratic terms, the municipalities should respect by law and against which instead, for 2017, they will be able to prevail. Finally, Madam President and ladies and gentlemen, in thanking you again, I would like to mention the experience we are making in the reconstruction of the other earthquakes, because it is a particularly intense activity, both with regard to the earthquake and the crater of the Eagle, and with regard to the earthquake of Emilia-Romagna and Lombardy: this decree-law represents the starting point because, as the reconstruction experience on the other craters tells us, every month we will have new needs to intervene and because reconstructions must always be managed and lived on the ground and, consequently, then renormalized. Every experience of earthquake, in fact, has its own specificity. This represents, for our legislative activity, certainly a very advanced starting point, for the quality of the decree-law and for the quality of the work and the availability given by the senators and the improvements made to the provision, but a starting point, of the Government and the institutions, to give an answer to this huge tragedy to which all together, as we are doing today, we must continue to give answers day by day in the concreteness of our activity. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u30	The general debate is closed. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 1 of the Decree-Law which are intended to be presented. I note that the amendments from 1.12 to 1.33 and the agenda have been withdrawn. I would ask the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Tonini, to speak under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure on sub-amendment 1,1000/100, tabled by the rapporteur, which is intended to be explained.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u31	Madam President, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u32	I call on the Government representative to comment on the amendments under consideration. Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Madam President, I am in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,1000/100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,1000/100, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u35	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I would just like to point out that my vote against was actually to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u36	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,1000.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u39	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I see that there are the agenda for G1,100 and Amendment 1,1000.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u40	We have already voted on sub-amendment 1,1000/100, and now I have voted on Amendment 1,1000; the remaining amendments and the agenda have been withdrawn. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I thought I understood that you were referring to an amendment 1,100. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We are now in the process of voting on Amendment 1,1000. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,1000, tabled by the Commission, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u41	Madam President, I will make a unique illustration for several agendas. I would particularly like to say that I would like to leave open the opportunity for a contribution also for those buildings that have been tested in class A, i.e. accessible but damaged. During the debate in the Commission, a senator noted that when the renovation of a building involves an expenditure commitment of EUR 50,000 or EUR 60,000 it is obvious that it is unworkable, but that is not true at all, because when the supporting structure is integrated, we can have destroyed partitions and plants and need repaintings. Our territory is articulated, mountainous and dispersive, because, as I said yesterday, it is a widespread drama on the Apennines, with municipalities also territorially very extensive and diversified; therefore already to put a stake the costs are very high. Otherwise, he did the estimates that then bring the companies! I would also point out that it is important to monitor and monitor how everything will be done: it is okay to monitor and control, but it is also necessary to de-burocratise and thus give opportunities to free citizens and professionals to do and then monitor with controls. There is also a fact that we have not yet considered, namely that in my opinion the expenditure on this earthquake is very underestimated. Think that the 1997 budget, which has not yet been fully resolved, involved expenditure of 10 billion. Today, citizens are involved in much greater amounts, both for inactible houses and for damaged assets, and therefore from 8 billion we will reach 20 billion euros. From this point of view, for example, to create prefabricated modules and then replace them with small houses involves a double expense. For the houses, I have informed myself, we need a plan of urbanization and if we do it quickly (and in this case the investment would be in valid professionals and urbanists who plan with common sense also for the future), it is done in two months. On the other hand, prefabricated modules are no longer the same as they used to be: there are also very high-level, highly technological modules. In my opinion, then, either of them, otherwise we risk spending a great deal at this provisional stage and then having no more resources for the final, which is important. It is also important to leave a space for the redevelopment of all that territory that insists on a highly seismic area and today is damaged and therefore we have a greater vulnerability of the buildings: in fact, there is not a building, even new, that does not have its beautiful geographic map of plot. We have roads that have become maps, with cracks of one or two centimeters, even in the accessible houses where you continue to live. It is therefore a commitment of expenditure that will have to be re-modulated: the 3-4 billion flexibility involved in the earthquake are not there, now the estimate is 1-2 billion in five years, practically nothing. I therefore hope that this will only be a good start, to re-modulate it later with monitoring, so that we can make targeted and correct expenditures that have a positive return. Another aspect that must be considered is that competent and qualified persons are sent in the surveys, those who are normally empowered to issue plans, programs and projects also for complex reinforced concrete structures or other. Otherwise, we are with professionals who go to do the inspections frightened by the repercussions that there may also be at the criminal level. Among other things, the insurance covers those who complete the complete Aedes, but the fast ones, being compiled by volunteers are not covered for professional responsibility because, precisely, it is a volunteer. In this way, we find ourselves overestimating the damage: many buildings are considered unworkable when, in fact, better and more careful evaluation would not be. These are costs that could be started: we therefore give the municipalities the opportunity to re-check and manage everything. I thank the Undersecretary De Micheli for his passion, commitment and concreteness. I thank all those who have contributed and I invite you to take advantage of the virtuous experiences we have. In the Marche we have many empty sheds for unemployment: let us remember that in this territory the unemployment was zero, while now it is greater than that of the South, because it is more than 40%. It's a tragic situation. This earthquake risks creating a dead area, when it is an area rich in skills and potential. By investing well we would have a return for the future, so it is better to spend well today not to spend more and repent tomorrow: that is what I ask. I also thank you for the inclusion of the Municipality of Fabriano, my area, but I hope that you will leave a glimpse to incorporate in the crater also other municipalities: I referred to Genga, Sassoferrato and Pergola, where the mayors have warmly recommended themselves. In fact, where we have inexhaustible roads that interrupt economic paths and prevent children from going to school, mayors, if they cannot pass the Stability Pact, cannot do anything: we block an entire economy. Let us realize that the damage caused by this earthquake is much, much worse than we can imagine. The dramatic images we have seen are nothing, because behind there are a whole economy, a circuit, an induced one that has been damaged, starting with universities: think that for fear of having no more students some rectors have eliminated university fees: zero taxes. Let us realize how much this territory is loved and how much we must commit ourselves. I therefore ask that at least the agendas that I have presented be taken as a real commitment, because the commitment in this situation is necessary. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u42	It seems to me that Senator Fucksia has also presented the agendas you have presented to the following articles. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u43	Madam President, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 2.4 and 2,200 and the G2100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u44	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u45	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.4, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 2,200 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Fucksia, do you insist on voting on the G2100 agenda? FUCKSIA (Mixed). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.100, presented by Senators Fucksia and Ceroni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are described. Amendments 3.5, 3.11 and 3.0.1 have been withdrawn. I invite the representative of the Government to comment on Amendment 3.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u46	Madam President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u47	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Since no amendments or agendas have been tabled to Article 4, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendment and agendas relating to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u48	Madam President, I would like to explain the G5.14 agenda with a narration, which is the reason why I wrote it. "Lettizia woke up almost immediately: I dragged her by her legs out of bed. It saved us from being on the ground floor, in an easy house for us: so it wasn't too hard to get out and get to the car. I am talking about the enticed, who during the earthquake could not save themselves, if not a few, who were forcibly dragged by the loved ones who were watching them. There are narratives of mothers who, unable to save their children, lie beside them waiting for death. I would like mothers to lie next to their children waiting for someone to save them, for someone to know exactly where they are and then, in good time, to help them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u51	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the Lega Nord Group subscribes to Senator Bignami's agenda and strongly supports her topicality, effectiveness and importance. Already in the Commission, work has been carried out which has led to the approval of agendas, including one of our own concerning the reactivation of the social protection system for people with disabilities. I also think of day centers, situations in which aggregation becomes important. This expresses the sense of consideration of the weakest: even in the difficulties of the earthquake, these circumstances must be taken into account, especially for the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u54	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I too intend to sign the G5.14 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u55	I call on all senators who wish to sign this agenda to send the request to the Presidency. Senator Bignami, do you accept your subscriptions? BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Yes, Madam President, I accept all of them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendment and agenda are set out. Amendments 5.1 to 5.11 and 5.16 to 5.25 have been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u56	Madam President, as far as the agenda is concerned, G5.14, I propose to Senator Bignami to replace the words: 'the seismic risk zones' with the words 'the crater areas'. This part of the scheme provides for monitoring to be carried out immediately and, since the financial and economic resources are available to the Commissioner, we can limit them to the crater areas. However, having well understood what Senator Bignami's will is, if she can do well, we could add in the commitment that the Government, after these first 60 days of monitoring, is committed to carrying out this monitoring in seismic zones 1 and 2, after the emergency phase. We could add this second commitment to the end of the device. I also welcome the Commission's amendment 5.13.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u57	Do you accept the rewording proposed by the government, Senator Bignami? BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u58	I agree with the words of the representative of the Government regarding the agenda G5.14 (text 2) and I give a favourable opinion on the agenda G5.100, provided that, after the words:
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u59	Do you accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteur, Senator Uras? URAS (Mixed). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.13 SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u60	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.13, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Agendas G5.100 (text 2) and G5.14 (text 2) were accepted by the Government. Are the presenters insisting on the vote? URAS (Mixed). Yes, Madam President. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.14 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u61	Madam President, my agenda is a very simple one, which tends to make the Government consider the possibility of including in the interventions on buildings that have been destroyed or damaged by the earthquake also those that are aimed at the installation of power plants for the production of renewable sources, obviously intended for the self-consumption of buildings rebuilt or repaired. I would say that this is an important fact, also for the sustainability of our entire planet.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u62	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u63	Madam President, I am in favour of Amendment 6,100. Amendment 6.38 is withdrawn, because it is identical to amendment 6.40, which is amended, replacing the words: Replace paragraph 10 in conjunction with the others: Replace sub-paragraph 8 (a) above. Amendment 6.41 is also amended by replacing the words: "To paragraph 11" with the words: "To paragraph 9" "To paragraph 9" It's two drafting mistakes. Finally, I would like to express my support for the G6100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u64	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u65	Amendments 6.3 to 6.27 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 6,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.36 to 6.39 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 6.40 (correct text), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 6.41 (correct text) tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.43 has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G6100 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of amendment 7.0.300, which refers to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which is now on the agenda G7.0.300, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u66	Madam President, I am in favour of the G7.0.300 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u67	Madam President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u68	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G7.0.300 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u69	Madam President, I would like to express my support for the G8.100 and G8.101 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u70	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u71	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G8.100 and G8.101 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 8.7 (text 2), 8.8 (text 2) and 8.9 (text 2) have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u74	Mr Lai, rapporteur. Madam President, I would like to ask for the provision of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u75	I have the provision for amendment 8.0.1. Since no amendments or agendas are referred to Article 9 of the Decree-Law and the amendments and agendas referred to in Articles 10 and 11 have been withdrawn, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendments referred to Article 12 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u76	Madam President, I am in favour of Amendment 12.2 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u77	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u78	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.2 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 12.2 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 12.5 and 12.6 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 13 of the Decree-Law. I note that Amendment 13.3 has been withdrawn. The remainder of the amendment is set out. I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u79	Madam President, on Amendment 13.1 (text 2) I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u80	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.1 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 14 of the Decree-Law, which are described. Amendment 14,500 lacks the opinion of the 5th Commission. I therefore ask its President, Senator Tonini, to refer to it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u81	Madam President, the opinion is in no way precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u82	The Presidency takes note of this. I call on the Government representative to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u83	Madam President, I am in favour of Amendments 14.2, 14.3, 14.10, 14.500 and 14.0.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u84	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 14.2, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 14.3 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the device did not work! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask the offices to verify the functioning of the voting device of Senator Caliendo's post. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 14.10 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 14.19 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 14.0.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 14,500, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Since no amendments or agendas are referred to Article 15 of the Decree-Law, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendment to Article 16, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u85	Madam President, I am in favour of Amendment No 16.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u88	CUOMO (PD). Madam President, I apologise; in the previous vote I could not vote: my vote was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u89	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16.3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 16.3 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendment and the agenda referred to in Article 17 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u90	I am in favour of the G17.101 agenda, as well as Amendment 17.0.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u91	I am in agreement with the rapporteur and welcome the G17.101 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u92	Agenda G17.100 has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G17.101 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 17.0.1 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 17.0.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u93	On behalf of the Assembly, I would like to extend my greetings to the students of the Istituto comprensivo "Piazza Winckelmann" in Rome, who are about to leave the Chamber after attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u94	As no amendments or agendas are referred to in Articles 18, 20 and 22 of the Decree-Law, and the agendas referred to in Articles 19 and 21 have been withdrawn, we shall proceed to the examination of the agendas referred to in Article 23, which are to be referred to above, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u95	Madam President, on the agenda, Mr G23.101, I am in favour, subject to rewording, by including, after the words: 'the Government is committed', the words: 'to assess the possibility of 'aggregation'.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u96	Madam President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u97	Agenda G23.100 has been withdrawn. Senator Barozzino, do you accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteur? BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, Madam President, but I would ask that the agenda be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous scrutiny by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G23.101 (text 2), presented by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As no amendments or agendas are referred to in Articles 24, 25 and 26 of the Decree-Law, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 27, which are intended to be set out, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u98	Madam President, I am in favour of Amendment 27.1 (text 2) and the G27.101 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u99	Madam President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u100	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 27.1 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 27.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 27.3 and agenda G27.100 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G27.101 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 28 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u101	Madam President, I welcome Amendment 28.1 (text 2) and Amendment 28.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u102	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u103	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 28.1 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 28.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The G28.100 agenda has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 28.0.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Since no amendments or agendas are referred to Article 29 of the Decree-Law, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 30 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be set out, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u104	Madam President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u105	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u106	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 30,1000. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 30,1000 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.4 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 30.12 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 30.13 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 30.14 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G30.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. As no amendments or agendas are referred to in Articles 31, 32 and 33 of the Decree-Law and the amendments to Article 34 have been withdrawn, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendment and the agenda referred to in Article 35, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u107	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u108	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u109	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 35.200. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 35,200, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G35.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 36 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u110	Madam President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u111	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 36.0.1 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 36.0.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 36.0.3 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Since no amendments or agendas are referred to Articles 37, 38, 39 and 40 of the Decree-Law, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendment to Article 41 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be explained, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u112	Madam President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u113	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 41.1 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 41.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Since no amendments or agendas are referred to Article 42 of the Decree-Law, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendment and the agenda referred to in Article 43, which are intended to be set out, and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u114	Madam President, I would like to ask for the following rewording of the initial part of the agenda item G43.100: If accepted, the opinion will be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u115	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u116	Amendment 43.3 has been withdrawn. Senator Bencini, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G43.100? Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Yes, and I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G43.100 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G43.100 (text 2), presented by Senator Bencini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Since the amendments to Article 44 of the Decree-Law have been withdrawn, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendment to Article 45 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u117	I am in favour of amendment 45.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u118	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u119	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 45.6. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 45.6 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As no amendments or agendas are referred to in Articles 46 and 47 of the Decree-Law, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 48, which are intended to be set out, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u120	I am in favour of the G48,100 and G48,101 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u121	The opinion was in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur. As regards the amendments, I support Amendments 48.10 (text 2), 48.23 (text 2) and 48.26.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u122	Amendments 48.1 to 48.4 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 48.10 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 48.10 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 48.12 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 48.23 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 48.13 to 48.22 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 48.26 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 48.30 to 48.42 have been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G48,100, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G48.101, tabled by Senator Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 49 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u123	Madam President, Amendment 49.0.1 is the only one that has been tabled to the measure, not least because of the precise reasoning we have made in the Commission. We have not tabled amendments simply to make a number, but to follow up on the substantive considerations that arose from the comparison with the territory. Despite the common sense that we wanted from the Government, we have not found a favourable orientation from the Commission on the subject dealt with in this amendment, on which instead mayors, representatives of productive activities and citizens have asked for commitment. We are talking about the creation of a free zone, a special economy, for the areas affected by the earthquake in Umbria, Lazio, Abruzzo and Marche. This measure is exactly the same as that adopted by the Government on the occasion of the earthquake in Emilia-Romagna. In view of this, we call for the approval of amendment 49.0.1, which provides for the territories affected by the earthquake and for those working there to be rebuilt because - as we have already said in all sauces - it is a pious illusion to think of rebuilding houses without giving a prospect of economic recovery to the people who live there. We therefore propose a very simple measure which provides for: exemption from tax on income arising from the conduct of business activities in the free zone up to the amount of EUR 100,000 of income arising from the performance of the activity for each tax period; exemption from regional tax on production activities for the value of net production resulting from the performance of the activities, as well as exemption from municipal taxes on real estate located in the free zone. I repeat, Madam President, these measures are absolutely in line with what the Government has already done for the earthquake in Emilia-Romagna. We wonder how we can make these rules, how we can convert this decree-law into law, without including this kind of prediction, without giving this kind of implementation. We are not asking for the moon, but a thing of absolute common sense, which - I repeat - comes from a requirement expressed by the territory. The government will be able to say that it will think about it in a future measure, which will see it later. One thing is certain, as has already been abundantly mentioned in general discussion: what is being done today makes sense to the earthquake; what is not done today declares the government's inability to deal seriously with the problem of reconstruction. It is useless for you to bring Renzo Piano here to do his work with Renzi; here you can see whether or not there is money; here you can see if the Government really intends to restart those businesses. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u124	I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u125	Madam President, the legislation that is being carried out in the country with regard to reconstruction always provides that, at some point, when the path of verification and evaluation of damage is completed and then reconstruction is restarted, a free zone is established. The subject is important, but in this context the opinion will remain the one expressed in the Commission, therefore contrary, knowing that the commitment is to establish the free zone as soon as the second phase of reconstruction, including that of companies, can be started.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u126	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u127	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 44.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u130	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, I should like to make an explanation of vote on behalf of my Group. It has already been said - but I think it must be specified once again - that this measure stems from the full agreement between all the parties in order to give as quickly as possible the maximum relief to the populations. We agreed not to table further amendments, but if the League pretends to withdraw them all in order to maintain one that is worth more than twice the entire decree-law is incorrect to this Parliament, to the Commission, to the work of colleagues, but above all to the earthquake zones, on which they want to speculate politically because they know that it cannot be approved! [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups and Senator Susta]] ). All of us could have tabled amendments of this kind; therefore, the League was profoundly incorrect first of all with regard to displaced persons and those who need this decree-law to be passed! Is that clear? It is useless for you to think of fooling us; you cannot go and spend this amendment in those areas because this is not populism: this is precisely disloyalty towards the people in difficulty. Therefore, the 5 Star Movement will abstain, and we know that in the Senate this is valid as a vote against. This is not the measure in which you have to raise the barricades: you have to do it in budget law, and we will see what you will do on that occasion, because that is where the real money is discussed, not here in the emergency. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u133	BULGARRELLI (M5S). President, the League has already made an explanation of vote. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). President, I speak just to clarify, because I do not understand why the Senators of the 5 Star Movement are so agitated: before the colleague made the illustration, now I make an explanation of vote similar to what the 5 Star Movement Group has done. Furthermore, just to make it clear to the other Members of this House, it is not that we have tabled this amendment in this House and have not respected the agreement: we had already tabled these amendments in this House... [[Senator Lezzi's comments.]] But you want to shut up and let me talk! President. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, calm down. Do not take advantage of the change of presidency. Mr Lezzi (M5S). We introduced them, too. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, finish your statement. [[Comments of Senators Arrigoni and Volpi.]] Senator Arrigoni! Senator Volpi, you Secretary, help us. Senator Comaroli, continue. Calm down, we're also talking about a sensitive subject. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Indeed, precisely because it is a sensitive issue if we wanted to "sell" this amendment we could say that in the Commission too we were the only Group that presented the question of the free zone, identical to that of the free zone of Emilia. We did not want to do this precisely to give a signal and to ensure that the Government committed itself, as it also stated in the Commission, since this issue is particularly important and vital. I do not know if, this morning on TV you had the chance to see a service in which you could see a company that continues to pack its products in these areas and the workers are happy to go to work again. That was a system; we introduced it and it's the only one we left, Senator Lezzi! [[Ironic applause from Senator Lezzi.]] And look at the fact that we know very well the aspects of competence...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u134	Talk to the presidency, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u135	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). ...as opposed to someone else who, like Senator Lezzi, comes to the Commission and during all the work done there does not intervene and then has to intervene in the Chamber to speak out of proportion. [[Applause from the groups LN-Aut, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u136	Senator, do your intervention; everyone will then intervene when he thinks.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u137	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). So, Mr President, it was for wanting to leave an important signal, since this issue, if it is important for everyone, at least remains on the record. My group will therefore vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u140	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, I would like to speak so much so that we can understand how everyone has worked so that we can reach a final vote which would give a strong, clear and even quick response to the people who are waiting absolutely for the speeches to be able to restore, as far as possible, some normality (and we hope that everyone's work, done in a choral way, will come to this response). However, I would like to point out that all forces have worked and tabled amendments on the free zone, and that we have tabled an agenda accepted by the Government. So the government has already committed itself and we are sure, because it has been a matter that has been brought forward in the Commission, which will want to respond and honour this very important commitment for the economy, for the resources and families of those areas that are unfortunately affected by the earthquake. So we are really waiting for a confirmation shortly in the first measure, which we know is the law of stability, in order to have clear, strong and definitive answers on a subject that we have all shared, on which we have been confirmed by the Government that has accepted the agenda as a commitment and on which we want to have a clear response. The intention is absolutely to arrive at a unitary working agreement for the adoption of the measure in this House. So we are absolutely convinced that this will be the line. We remain consistent with what has been done and agreed in the Commission, with all the work done, and on this point we will abstain from voting for consistency, because the commitment has been and is and our agenda resulting from an amendment has been accepted. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u143	GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, given the importance of the amendment and the concrete aid it could give to the territory, I would ask the presenter to sign Amendment No 49.0.1 and to announce my vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u144	We shall proceed with the vote. BULGARRELLI (M5S). President, the opinion of the 5th is missing. Mr Lezzi (M5S). There is no opinion of the 5th. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The amendment has been examined in the Commission, which is reflected in our offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u147	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, the opinion of the 5th Commission is missing, so it would be appropriate to hear President Tonini on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u150	TONINI (PD). Mr President, the 5th Commission did not examine this amendment in the advisory session as it would have been necessary to do this morning when we gave an opinion on all the amendments, except those of the League Group which had remained in the dossier which, as announced in the Commission too, would have been withdrawn in this House. My opinion here can only be articulated. From a strictly formal point of view, if we were to check the Commission as usual, with the utmost rigour, we should say two things: the first is that there is no technical report and therefore it is clear that there is a problem; in fact, especially when it comes to taxation, the technical report is necessary. Secondly, there is undoubtedly provision for cover, but it refers to savings to be achieved through rationalisations which would normally require a safeguard clause if they were to be considered as solid cover. So, from a technical point of view, there is some questionable element. Having said that, however, since it seems clear to me that the intent of the promoters is to keep open the discussion on this topic and that certainly the objective in itself, from the point of view of the economy of the country, is virtuous because it aims to maintain economic activities guaranteeing a development even further compared to the phase of tax exemptions, or rather, of the postponement of taxes, my opinion would be to give an opinion of nothing precludes, but highlighting these caveat, these difficulties. However, I appeal to the League Group's responsibility because, in order to keep the debate open, the ideal would be for the amendment to be turned into an agenda. My opinion, therefore, is in no way precluded by mandatory caveats.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u153	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, of course I agree with President Tonini that this amendment deserves very special attention. The climate we have experienced in the Commission and also in this House has been marked by an effort by all the groups, and of course President Tonini has taken this into account in his opinion. If I may allow myself to speak, so that the regularity rightly invoked by President Tonini can be formally consolidated, I would ask colleagues of the League to change the formula of coverage, and therefore point 9), which at the moment reads: In order to meet the costs arising from the provisions of this Article, amounting to 500 million... It should contain the forecast of a ceiling of expenditure and therefore the words "500 million" should be replaced by others which mean up to 500 million. I offer this modest technical support to President Tonini's assessment because it would give the Commission greater serenity over the procedure that has been followed. I would therefore ask my colleagues in the League to consider the figure of 500 million as a ceiling of expenditure, rewording the amendment with the words:... to the maximum amount of 500 million. However, I would ask President Tonini to confirm my suggestion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u154	A proposal has been made for the rewording of amendment 44.0.1. I'll ask Senator Comaroli if she accepts it. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Although the budget committee had no objection, there was no change in the opinion previously expressed by the rapporteur and the government. The problem, in fact, remains this. I would therefore ask the rapporteur, Senator Lai, if you would like to add a few comments, following the President of the Budget Committee and the proposal for a reformulation shared by the first signatory, Senator Comaroli.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u155	Mr President, I confirm the negative opinion because the work in the Commission has led to a shared assessment. Therefore, it does not make sense, nor is it useful, to approve this amendment at this time. When the second phase begins and the tributes will have to be reactivated, then it is right that we return to this point. Therefore, I confirm the opposite opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u156	I also invite the Government representative to comment on Amendment 49.0.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u157	I confirm the assent of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u160	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, we have come out of a Commission job done with great loyalty and respect for everyone. We have all shared that this is a problem to be addressed and we will also take it into account in the next steps. These are measures which, among other things, will shortly come to this House. Some are already under discussion, but the main measure, which will come to this House very soon, is the budget law. We cannot use this amendment here to undermine the excellent cooperation that has been built these days for the benefit of the people. All of us have, in our hearts and minds, the problems of those citizens and none of us wants to speculate on them. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u163	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, the content of this amendment is shared by everyone because it is of common sense, because it is useful, because it has to be done; so much so that all the parliamentary groups have tabled amendments and agendas, otherwise set, on the free zone. For example, I had tabled both an amendment and an agenda on this subject. Since we are in Europe, I had put forward a proposal to this effect, which the Government would then re-modulate as it would have liked. I was asking that in these areas, particularly affected by these calamitous events, in order to support the local economy, the opportunity should be given to freely assess for entrepreneurs a tax system equal to the most advantageous one in Europe. If we are in Europe, I do not see why Cyprus can have a 15% tax while we are at 65%. This could also be a way to attract companies that have relocated and invest. It would therefore be a positive virtuous circle. Now, unfairness or not, those who have the most common sense use it (I remember the Bible account about Solomon and the son contended with by two mothers). I do not care who submits the amendment, if the measure ultimately benefits the citizens; the North League has presented it, and it is supported by everyone. I therefore ask you to subscribe to it and, if we vote on it, I will vote in favour. Alternatively, if this amendment becomes an agenda, then all the agendas for a free zone will be approved, with greater reinforcement and commitment by the Government. All the agendas presented on a free zone are absorbed in that agenda which will be accepted by the Government, and let us commit ourselves to this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u164	Colleagues, I would like to point out that the Budget Commission has examined the measure in the referee and that, as such, it covers the texts examined in that forum also the examination in the consultative forum. Amendment 49.0.1 was therefore examined in this way by the Budget Commission. The rapporteur then gave an opinion against which the Government complied. There has been a reformulation, but opinions have remained so. I therefore ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting of amendment 49.0.1 (text 2) by simultaneous ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u167	Mr Milo (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to remain in the climate that has arisen both in the Commission and in this House; however, beyond the technical acrobatics suggested by Senator Azzollini, the coverage of this amendment is clearly from 2017. While I think that we all share the merit of this issue, I believe it is more appropriate that this amendment should be turned into an agenda, if the North League and my colleague Mr Comaroli agree, with a serious commitment by the Government to the law of stability. In this way, we would also avoid the further waste of time going back to the Commission and then to this House. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u168	It seems to me that everything remains confirmed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 49.0.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment and the agenda relating to Article 50 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u169	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u170	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u171	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 50.5 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 50.5 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The G50.100 agenda has been withdrawn. Amendments to Article 51 of the Decree-Law have been withdrawn. We shall resume the examination of amendment 8.0.1, which was previously put aside, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u172	Mr President, after speaking with the political groups, I can say that I am against the amendment. It is therefore being turned into an agenda on which the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u173	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u174	Having been accepted by the Government, the G8.0.1 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u177	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, given the seriousness of the event, all of us have taken a serious approach to the measure under consideration and therefore in a proactive way; on the other hand, it could not have been otherwise than the tragedy that has developed. However, in our country, now from 1908 onwards, these tragedies develop in a resounding and evident way. There are about 1.5 billion committed, and we all know that they are of little or no use. The problem is how to try to give true answers to this and to other earthquakes, to know if these populations can stay where they were, if you can rebuild a social and economic fabric and an entire community. This answer does not come from the decree-law in question, it does not come from positions of government, nor absolutely from the majority. As usual there is total silence, not wanting to face the real problems. This story has been repeated for a long time and we seem not to realize that this country dances and will continue to dance. We do not seem to want to realize that we are facing the problem globally, with a kind of exceptional plan and a national plan with respect to the problems of the seismicity of this nation (which will increase more and more), or we will not emerge from it. These partial answers well come, but we all know that they are of little use if we do not say exactly what we want to do and what we will have to do. No word has ever come in this period about what this nation has to face in order to make stable not only the health facilities, but all the public structures and - if I may - even the private ones: this is not there. The real motivation, the real great debate, that could produce a climate of security for the Italians but also a great climate of serious investments that could lead to the recovery of the economy with serious and targeted investments, are not there: there is not all this. We believe that what has been done is insufficient and we will abstain from the problem, because first of all there are no real answers upstream. There is no certainty, as has not been given on other occasions, that conditions will be recreated for these communities to continue to exist, socially and economically. This isn't there. There are these 1.5 billion among a thousand organisms that will bounce back as usual the thousand responsibilities or things to do, and we will lose time in Italy. In the face of all these delays we see what happens in other countries, as in Japan, not only in relation to seismicity. Let us ask ourselves why it takes so long to do works and roads, when in Japan a hole of 15 meters of depth is eliminated in forty-eight hours and in Moscow a road of 15 kilometers is made in a night. In our country, without any decision to intervene, we all pretend not to understand and not to see. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]] It happens, often these companies are also Italian: models of efficiency abroad but nothing here. When are we gonna talk about this? When do we intervene? What do we say? Is it possible that we will continue to pretend at such a dramatic time, which, moreover, has been repeated for decades? Are we able to say once and for all that we have to stop being inefficient? Our entrepreneurs are capable abroad but smart in Italy: this is not possible; there are also clear complicity, not only political, but also bureaucracy. Blessed - for me cursed - reads Bassanini! I want the direct responsibility of the politician; enough with the powers of these leaders who do and undo as they think best. That's not possible. These political responses for the future are not there: there are no clear answers for these people and also for other earthquakes; there is no prospect of the Italian people. This nation dances and will continue to dance more and more: this is the real fact. What do you propose? The nothing, the usual hot diaper of the moment. It's no longer possible. The time has come in Italy to say the word "fine" and to do all the serious things, starting with me, but first of all from those who govern us and from those who have the most responsibility. We therefore announce our abstention vote. [[Applause from the CoR Group and the Senators Azzollini, Candiani and Mauro Mario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u180	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, with my colleague Mr Candiani we visited those communities of Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria which were hard hit by the strong earthquakes of 24 August, 26 and 30 October, even psychologically proven by the unbroken seismic swarm. Those are mountain areas where weather conditions have been heavy for several weeks. Cardinals, we made visits, not parades; we didn't have any journalists and television. We went tiptoe, knocking first at the mayor's door; and the next time we returned we invited him by the first citizens themselves. We moved - me and my colleague Mr Candiani - as former mayors, to understand the needs and needs of those communities. In the first place, in view of the needs we have been interpreting in the last three weeks, in a climate of loyal cooperation, our Group has given the greatest willingness to share the working method of the Budget Commission, proposed by the majority and by the rapporteur, Mr Lai, whom we thank for the professionalism and availability. We have also been patient for the delivery of the decrees, once again announced in press conference by Renzi but in fact made available with several days of delay. Unfortunately, the timing for the amendment phase was too tight. We have given up, despite us, to point out a number of amendments which we thought were important. We regret that of the few amendments we have mentioned, among the various tabled, aimed - precisely in the spirit mentioned yesterday by Senator Cardinali - at improving what is and can be improved in the text of the decree and, I repeat, the result of requests received from the affected territories, there has been a rejection by the Government and a majority. Of course, we are pleased that compensation has been introduced for the second houses. The League was the first and only political party to ask for such a forecast at the joint meeting of the Chamber and Senate Environment Commissions last September 1st in the presence of the Undersecretary De Vincenti, after the first earthquake of Amatrice. Not to introduce this forecast, which had been recommended to us by the mayors of Amatrice, Accumoli and Arquata, would certainly have prevented the reconstruction of those beautiful villages that over the years have experienced a depopulation of families that have maintained those houses as second houses. We are only partially satisfied with the approval of some of our amendments, such as the de-taxation of donations paid by individuals to the municipalities affected by the earthquake; or the possibility of making the expert assessment in place of that juror to demonstrate the cause-effect if one has suffered damage from the earthquake. Of the final document, the result of the merger of the two decree-laws, however, we do not share several aspects. Certainly wrong - we repeat - is to have armored the crater. The municipalities affected and that remain outside are many. The citizens and businesses of those excluded municipalities will not enjoy the tax benefits: even if they have suffered damage to their homes or factories, they will have to demonstrate with skill the link cause effect. The rapporteur, Mr Lai, said yesterday in his report that there were five characteristics of the decree-law: speed, integrated interventions, security, legality and transparency. Well, let's start with clarity and transparency on the crater. We have serious doubts that the 69 municipalities listed by the Second Decree-Law are already effectively in the crater and are therefore already benefiting from all the provisions. We fear that instead they will have to wait for the conversion into law of the final decree. We would be happy to be denied that. We are concerned that the measure under consideration is a child of the law drawn up for reconstruction in Emilia, for which the same Errani, also there extraordinary commissioner, had to issue 459 implementing orders, the last of which is of these days. That law has proved to be confusing and has led to unequal treatment between citizens who aspired to rebuild their buildings and businesses. It is wrong, therefore, not to include in the text the explicit reference to appliances, or to the internal and external installations related to the destroyed or inaccessible buildings that should be repaired with full compensation for the costs. In the post-Emilia earthquake reconstruction, the lack of such terms in the law created a number of problems, as it did not guarantee the implicit admission to the contribution and, therefore, it became necessary to issue special orders, like this one, to define these issues. Failing our amendments means not wanting to take into account the experience of the past, it means not wanting to intervene in order to avoid the loss of time and delays that are characterizing the reconstruction in Emilia. What an example of efficiency! [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] Wrong not to allow urban derogations for the installation of small wooden artefacts as places of personal civil protection in homes and economic activities. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] It is the most invoked request from those populations, especially Norcia and Cascia, to which you are responding no. We find it serious that the State, in the name of a strong environmentalism, in the name of the energy efficiency to be pursued at all costs, comes to fully compensate the costs of reconstruction of a building with costly innovative and improvement interventions and to allow the transition from a low to a high energy class and then does not recognize the seismic adaptation of private buildings with a level of security of 80% or 100% for strategic buildings such as schools and hospitals. It is madness to repair damaged buildings by limiting itself to the coefficient of 60 percent, which proved unsuitable, since the buildings of Spoleto and Camerino, hit in the past and rebuilt with the parameters that you want to reconfirm here, have collapsed the same with the repetition of the earthquake. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Colleagues, those areas of central Italy are classified to extremely high seismicity. If we want to avoid spending twice as much money to redo the collapsed buildings twice, appropriate measures must be taken to ensure their stability at once; and the 80% coefficient meets this criterion. I repeat: we must give a new order to the priorities of intervention to be supported with state contributions. First comes the anti-seismic adjustment, which saves furniture, immobile and above all human lives, and then, if the money goes on, you can also think of energy efficiency. Premier Renzi, who succumbs so much to the Casa Italia project and then endorses these bad choices, once again proves to be a great wordsmith. It is also profoundly unfair to provide for the sole suspension, and for a time limited to September 2017, of the obligations to pay taxes and bills. It had to be exempt from payment for three years and nothing. Therefore, families and entrepreneurs will soon find themselves forced to pay and also to repay arrears. On this aspect Renzi had to undertake an arm-arm with Europe, on this aspect Renzi had to hijack the resources, which continues to reiterate that for reconstruction there is no shortage, even if, from the numbers we see in the decree-law, they are scarce. Wrong was the intention to postpone the establishment of a free zone to fiscally facilitate micro-enterprises located in the crater municipalities. Denying the free zone, but only a commitment to activate it, and denying the no tax area is a serious mistake; it does not give prospects, but only a future full of uncertainties. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is a bad choice, which does not allow commercial, craft and small businessmen, who cannot and do not want to relocate elsewhere, to plan, to stay on the spot and to continue to be blood and oxygen for the local communities, allowing them to survive, resist and rise again. Not to speculate, dear Senator Lezzi, the Northern League is the only party that has submitted a proposal for the establishment of a free zone in the Commission. We thought about it, the Five Star Movement didn't. Period. For the reasons set out above, the Group of the North League cannot therefore vote in favour of the measure. Our vote will be limited to abstention. It is not an affront to those who have operated and are operating in the emergency and post-emergency, such as the Fire Department, Civil Protection, the Forces of Order, the Italian Red Cross, the ANPAS and the various voluntary associations, which we continue to thank for what has been done. It is not a slap to the affected populations, which we will continue, as the North League, to follow, but it interprets its discontent, which is increasingly emerging from those parts. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u183	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we have focused our compass on the immediate interest of the people affected by the earthquake. We have focused our parliamentary activity, our ability to suggest improvements to the text and our willingness to make the measure as close as possible to the immediacy of the problems. I announce the Group's vote in favour, which I represent, and it is a positive vote expressed at an absolutely extraordinary event. Therefore, even the legislative intervention that is being put to our attention today can only be characterized by this extraordinaryness. There have been and still are, in the measure that we are going to approve today, aspects that can certainly be improved and that can be found in us a certain perplexity, because we have not reached that optimal level that we would have liked, always in the interest of the people. Today, however, we must intervene on the schools to be reopened, on the economic activities to which we guarantee continuity, on our historical cultural heritage and on the historical memory of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, you have announced your abstention on this measure. I would like to tell you that there are times when national history and our people cannot be divided. In fact, we should be able to put aside the emphasis on the weaknesses of any scaffolding, because in highlighting that same weakness there is a lack of cohesion on the outside. Today we considered it essential to be able to give to the affected populations, but also to those who look at us outside the borders of our country, the representation of a people able to tighten around the needs giving the most adherent possible answers. It is clear that the measures for the attention of this House will be different - we will have them immediately already with the next stability law - and there is no doubt that we will strongly support the amendment proposed today by our colleagues in the League, in the most appropriate place, which I believe is the examination of the stability law. Today should be the day when we approve the emergency measures to give immediate refreshment to the affected populations and also the day when we take note and reflect on how many times we are called to intervene on emerging issues. A Parliament and a ruling class that can fully look to the interests of its administrators can only look to future planning. We certainly need to address the emergency and give immediate support to those who suffer, but we have a responsibility to legislate for the future and for future generations. I invite you to take stock of what we have spent in the last fifty years in our country, for natural disasters ranging from floods to earthquakes, to move on to the most disparate situations, in which the damage has greatly amplified due to the lack of prevention by our local and non-local administrations. We also have to deal with our pockets, ask ourselves what we are preparing for the future and if we do not have to invest what we know to be, according to a historical statistical data, the expenditure for magnetism events, making a serious programming, already in the next law of stability, of what we plan to devote to prevention. We will still spend that sum, but we have a huge load from the point of view of human lives and the ability to recover the so-called normal life. Let us begin from now on, from this political generation, from this Parliament, to lay the foundations. Our country, unfortunately, is crossed by many earthquakes and hydrogeological disruptions, because the morphology of our territory lends itself to be subject to this type of events. We cannot ignore anything; we cannot pretend not to live this situation. So let us face it with loyalty, with open eyes and with the ability to offer preventive solutions. Partisan rhetoric could lead us today, once again, to tell the government that we did not like some things, such as the choice of the Extraordinary Commissioner, the way in which the decrees were issued or the delays accumulated. On the other hand, today we ask you only one thing, that is to say, to feel yourselves, as a government, responsible for a widely unanimous vote. Feel on yourselves the responsibility and weight of a Parliament that is united, in the vote, to support a government action that must be absolutely transparent. With respect to transparency procedures, please do not let us pale, even in the eyes of those peoples who live outside our country, because information arrives - hopefully only journalistic - of acquisitions from unmade races, of conversations picked up compared to apartments given to friends, rather than assigned according to regular competition procedure. We realize that procedures can only be of urgency, because urgency is an essential element of this provision, but we ask you: do not let us live the embarrassment of actions and activities that are less than transparent. The government, at least for this time, is up to the broad vote in favour of it from Parliament. Therefore, with the thought of the people affected, of the young people who are suffering the precariousness of their school year, unfortunately thinking also of those who are no longer there because of the earthquake, I announce to the Assembly the favorable vote of the LAG Group and I send to the Government - and the majority who support it - the assumption of a full responsibility for a reconstruction that is transparent and takes into account the great affliction that the Italian people have shown in this matter. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u184	We greet the students and teachers of the State Science and Language Lyceum "Enrico Medi" in Battipaglia, in the province of Salerno, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u185	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u187	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr President, I believe that the spirit which should inspire - and in part animated - the debate on the post-an earthquake decree should be that of a pact for the reconstruction and security of national territory. Therefore, I believe that the controversy should remain largely out of this debate. The unified decree - let's call it this - in our examination contains absolutely indispensable measures to face an emergency dilated over time by the succession of seismic events in Central Italy: derogation from the block of turnover to hire personnel able to carry out technical checks and housing assistance to the affected populations; more powers to the mayors; a more streamlined administration; and, again, more funds for the farmers damaged to build temporary stables and housing modules that allow them to remain in their land and close to the company. The list of technical checks still to be carried out to secure buildings and citizens is dramatically long. Demands are set to grow. It is a huge job and there is no staff to do it. For this reason it was necessary to derogate from the turnover block in order to recruit technicians who could carry out these urgent tasks. Renzi has assured that there will be a greater involvement of the mayors of the affected municipalities, who ask for more powers because in these months they have clashed with the limitations imposed by the first earthquake decree, whose approach not only tended to centralize the procedures of intervention, but risked to hinder, because of the bureaucratic slowness, the timely fulfillment of the activities necessary for the safety of the damaged areas, also and especially those belonging to the cultural heritage of the country. To amend the first decree was, therefore, a step in the right direction, because, compared to the type of event for which it was issued, we are now faced with a completely different situation. The decree, in this sense, accepts many of the requests of the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI). In particular, the Extraordinary Commissioner for Reconstruction is assigned the task of integrating the list of 62 municipalities already identified in the crater, in light of the new damage caused by the continuous seismic swarm and through the identification of specific criteria. Governors and mayors have also called for faster mechanisms for citizens to obtain the necessary certifications from civil protection technicians, those that are then necessary to carry out repair work and obtain refunds and compensations. The unified decree is therefore called upon to repair all these flaws. It is not just a question of funds: it is a question of rethinking the organizational machinery for intervention in the affected areas, in the face of a drama that seems endless. There is a problem of keeping the economic fabric, of which we must deal, as well as first aid, with the accommodation of displaced persons, the security of what has remained standing, the reconstruction. The main emergency that the decree deals with is that of ensuring adequate housing assistance to the affected populations. In order to face it, it is expected that the Civil Protection department can, with rapid and transparent procedures, acquire the containers and, on the basis of the indications of the municipalities, identify the areas on which to install them. In order to facilitate the return to the houses with minor damages, which need only immediate repair, it is expected that the owners, after presentation of a special project signed by an authorized professional, can proceed to the restoration of the agibility of the stables. They speed up, you know, the procedures. For the security of the historical and artistic heritage, moreover, the municipalities concerned can make the necessary interventions directly, giving notice to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage. But the problem - I believe this is the point on which to concentrate - does not stop here; there is a much broader objective to be pursued: the safety of a territory at risk of earthquake that covers 60% of the Italian regions. The Seismic Prevention Fund, approved after the terrible earthquake of L'Aquila, planned over seven years, from 2010 to 2016, for a total amount of 965 million euros, has proved completely insufficient, since this sum, albeit substantial, represents - according to the Civil Protection department - only a minimum percentage, perhaps less than 1%, of the need that would be necessary for the complete seismic adjustment of all constructions, public and private, and strategic infrastructure works. There is a reflection to be done: from 2010 to 2016 a sum of less than EUR 1 billion was allocated to the Seismic Risk Prevention Fund, while in the same period the value of the deductible amounts for energy regeneration alone, i.e. ecobonus, exceeded EUR 12 billion. Foreseeing a rebalancing that favours substantial detaxation of private investment in the anti-seismic consolidation would be a step in the right direction. If one looks at what the Italian State has spent over the last fifty years on reconstructions after the many earthquakes recorded, it is clear that a great anti-seismic consolidation plan would have saved. The Italian is unfortunately an epochal delay. By always intervening as a result of emergencies and never in a structural way for adequate prevention, it has actually spent much, but badly. According to a research carried out by the Study Centre of the National Council of Engineers dating back to 2014, the sum in current values of the state reconstruction interventions carried out from 1968 to 2012 was more than 121 billion euros; while an anti-seismic adjustment of all constructions, public and private and strategic infrastructure works would cost approximately 100 billion euros. A coherent prevention plan would therefore have saved tens of thousands of lives. The Casa Italia programme, launched by the Government after the August earthquake, finally goes in the right direction. I'll move on to the last point. There is a dispute between Italy and the European Union over the exceptional costs incurred for the damage of the earthquake and the reception of migrants. The demand for more deficits for these two exceptional events is sacrosanct, but Europe, once again, niches. Yet there is the European Union Solidarity Fund, launched in 2002 and since then used for 72 interventions in 24 countries to contribute to the cost of natural disasters, with a total of almost EUR 4 billion. The structure of the Fund is good, but its possibilities for intervention are limited to only EUR 500 million per year. It could be strengthened in a number of directions, including the granting of long-term loans at preferential rates to States affected by disasters. This would require a strengthening of the Fund, currently financed from the European budget, which, together with the granting of greater flexibility on the deficit, could meet the needs of a country like ours, which is facing two absolutely exceptional emergencies. With these proposals and in this spirit, the AL-A Group will vote in favour of the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u188	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u190	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that I am in favour of this measure. We have worked on the measure not only out of a sense of responsibility, but also to signal a new political value on such a dramatic issue as the seismic events of recent months. We wanted to convey the political value of Parliament's unity, beyond the differences that distinguish any political force in its relations with the Government. In this sense, we have worked positively in the Commission both with the rapporteur and with the Government itself and I think that we have done an excellent job from an amending point of view, inter alia by composing two measures that have been presented by the Government with reference to two different seismic events - the one of August last and the next - both particularly dramatic and destructive of the urban and economic fabric, as well as the social living conditions in the affected areas. I would like to speak on something that I consider to be positive, while at the same time pointing out a limit. The positive aspect is the dynamic that has been chosen to manage the emergency, linking relief interventions and first safety with the prospects of reconstruction. It is a reconstruction that tends to maintain the condition of the places (i.e. restoring them) and the culture that in those places has developed and expressed both from the economic and social point of view. This work is carried out by strengthening the Commissioner's figure and overcoming the Commissioner's view as a direct expression of local administrations, identifying a person who has already gained professional experience and competence on this subject and putting him in a positive relationship with the head of the Civil Protection Department, who has worked well and works in these circumstances. I think that this is the regulatory embryo on which we can work to finally arrive - I repeat to the Government because we have told it so many times and I think that the Government has not devoted itself enough - to the preparation of a framework law on natural disasters and seismic events, which already allows to have a regulatory scaffolding able to activate every level of intervention destined to the affected areas. It is necessary to do so in such a way that the time used, especially in the wake of the calamitous event and the tragic situation, is reduced to a minimum and that the machine of the State is immediately operational. I believe that a framework law is necessary - and I would like to stress this - because I recall another calamitous event, the flood of Gallura, which caused 19 deaths and the dismantling of a social and productive fabric that has not yet recovered, that has not had the same provisions that have had other areas of the country affected by calamitous events. There must be fairness in these interventions, there must be no difference, there must be no privileged situations and other forgotten situations, and in order to do this there is a need for a framework law, not an ad hoc decree-law for every flood, fire or earthquake. A framework law is needed that guarantees the same treatment of the State to all citizens in the face of the tragedy. A framework law is urgent, and I think that the Government must take charge of it, because we now have the experience and, unfortunately, we also have another certainty. We have the certainty that our country, for issues of territory, soil condition, hydrogeological problems, is subject to events of this nature. I think, then, that this is a good measure in terms of the outline of the proposed interventions, the organisation of the public authorities, the cooperation between the Commissioner - who has its own powers of derogation for the qualification of interventions, including reconstruction, and for overcoming the emergency - and the Civil Protection Department, which is now able to act promptly in all particularly urgent situations. I believe that there is good regulation in this text as regards the organization of interventions using the power of determination of the Commissioner, of the Commissioners' orders, and therefore that flexibility and the possibility of adaptation to each reality that is worth considering. I also think that we must have a certain kind of professionalism to be entrusted to the performance of the rescue functions, of first safety and of subsequent safety with the Civil Protection and with the police functions, and, after the stabilisation phase, also for the positive support of all the activity of reconstruction and restoration of the original conditions prior to the calamitous event, where possible, as possible and as much as possible. Since this measure is good, I believe that it must also be valued by identifying professionalism capable of carrying out police duties, and not by inventing a Commissioner every time. There are excellent Presidents of the Region, who play their role very well and who are not up to the level, even for the structures they have, to carry out specific activities such as those that are instead attributable to the activity of commissioner. I think that the government should use this context to make a proposal, which is finally a proposal for a framework law, able to assure the country, at any time, a capacity for intervention that is up to the situation. For the reasons set out above, my Group will vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u191	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u193	Rossi Luciano (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, when we approved the motion on Casa Italia last month, there was unanimous agreement to ask the Government for a rapid and timely response to the earthquake victims of 24 August. Subsequently, the serious and very serious continuation of seismic events resulted in the need to integrate the first emergency measures. We come to this House today with organic legislation which I very much hope will enable the people affected to raise their heads as soon as possible. The task of the State certainly does not end with a decree, but it is precisely from today that the State must continue to make its presence felt especially in the perverted everyday life of the earthquake victims. The institutions must imagine - and have done so very quickly - an effective path so that the populations can be assisted in the best possible way and put in a position to return to the normality of life in their respective countries in a very short time. The government has done well to make timely decisions in the hours immediately following those dramatic events: on 25 August 2016, the Council of Ministers proclaimed the state of emergency for an hundred and eighty days and allocated the first 50 million euros for the relief and assistance of the affected populations from the National Emergency Fund. With a decree from the Ministry of the Economy, the suspension of taxes and taxes for the affected citizens was arranged and an extraordinary Commissioner for reconstruction was appointed. Therefore, the Government announced at the beginning of September the Casa Italia project, to get out of the earthquake emergency that has been attacking the country for a long, too long time. Casa Italia wants to be an overall strategy, to create the best working conditions and for the development of the country. At least ten years of planning, which aims to make the actions of qualification, modernisation and adaptation of the spatial planning organic. The Casa Italia project will have to allow the coordination of a series of interventions, from those on schools, reclamations, broadband broadcasting works, works against hydrogeological failure; from the redevelopment of the outskirts to the modernization of sports facilities: all articulated in a single overall project that has clear guidelines and an overall direction. As part of this strategy, the first measures have been taken and the first appropriations have been made under both the budget law and the two decree-laws which are now unified in the legislation that we are about to adopt. The decree-law presents itself as a systematic regulation, which collects the best recent practices, not only related to seismic interventions and reconstruction, but also to the procurement procedures, maximized for transparency and control, to the interventions of economic support in case of natural disasters, to the rebirth of territories made fragile by economic and social crises. The model of reconstructive intervention is inspired by the best experiences, while the model on procurement assumes as a point of reference the experience of Expo Milano, with a strong role of supervision by the Authority anti-corruption. As a general rule, contributions to the reconstruction of damaged property in the private sector are made on the basis of actual damage, up to 100% of the costs involved in dealing with the reconstruction, restoration or repair of buildings, equipment, movable property and stocks. This is a fundamental point. Beyond the mere contribution, the reconstruction will take place in the same ante earthquake places. This will avoid the problems highlighted in previous experiences of catastrophic events. The rules on support and support for the local business network as well as for the re-starting of small and medium-sized industries and the aid scheme for industrial areas in crisis extended to earthquake areas are also extremely important. Particular attention is paid to the agricultural, agro-industrial and tourist sectors. In order to promote the birth - why not - and the development of new productive activities in the areas concerned, there are soft loans at zero rates for new companies and the introduction of additional aid for the relaunch of the production system. In view of the presence in the territories of the aforementioned municipalities of a large number of families displaced from their homes, it was also necessary to acquire the immediate availability of temporary housing containers, in order to avoid an extension of the accommodation in tents and other collective structures set up immediately after the earthquakes, taking into account the arrival of winter. The containers will then be removed at the end of the requirements. On this very subject, it is news of a few days ago the award of the negotiated procedure banned from Consip for the chartering of the container. By December, according to Civil Protection, the first supply will allow to assist more than 2000 people in the fields that will be equipped in six municipalities that, at the moment, have requested housing modules. To be precise, these are the municipalities of Norcia, Camerino, San Ginesio, Caldarola, Palmiano and clearly of Amatrice. In this regard, it is a recent news, which is added to the many unfortunately sad and worrying news, that, in order to ensure road safety and a rapid adaptation of the existing structures, the measure provides that the ANAS, as a civil protection implementing agent, takes overall coordination of the actions of safety and restoration of the road safety of national, regional and local road infrastructures. ANAS implements the actions of its own competence and provides directly, where necessary - and believe me the needs are many - the execution of the actions of the regions and local authorities on the basis of the effective operational capacity of the bodies concerned. In order to ensure even under exceptional conditions the normal conduct of daily life, especially for children, for the school year 2016/2017 the managers of the regional school offices may derogate from the minimum and maximum number of pupils planned per class, of each order and grade, with reference to buildings that have been declared partially or totally unactible following seismic events, temporary emergency facilities and those hosting pupils of the affected areas. The Decree-Law also provides for a series of urgent interventions to ensure the regular continuation of educational and administrative activities. New measures are introduced to ensure greater protection of the cultural heritage, which is so rich in the affected territories. For example, it is clear that for all contracts of employment, services and supplies relating to cultural goods, urgent procedures apply. This is a choice to homogenise procedures and guide public administrations and operators involved in the delicate post-sysm safety operations. The government action in the decree-law under consideration cannot but be defined organic: on the one hand, it aims to restore the normality in everyday life of citizens affected by earthquakes as soon as possible; on the other hand, it tends to ensure a careful local reconstruction aimed at preserving or restoring the artistic and cultural heritage of the most beautiful villages in Italy and to give strong and lasting support to the productive system in order not to disperse the local economic fabric. Therefore we in the People's Area will vote firmly in favour of the decree-law, thus giving a decisive push for the rebirth of the villages that represent the deepest soul of a united Italy in rising up. Let me conclude by saying that, as a Umbrian, I would like to thank all those, no one excluded, who have been so well able to witness, with extraordinary and exemplary concreteness, a solidarity with our people, unfortunately so badly affected. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u194	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u196	MANGILI (M5S). Mr President, the earthquakes of recent years have brought great tragedies, with a large number of victims, but unfortunately the earth is giving us warnings. In Italy geologists expect earthquakes with energy thirty times stronger than that of Amatrice. You can't know when, or where exactly, but surely they will. In the event of such occurrences, adequate preparation must be made in terms of the quality of the building. But in Italy you easily lose your memory and lack the culture of maintenance that would be, instead, reasonable and common sense. The lack of attention, the inadequacy of existing assets and the lack of investment in the safety of public and private buildings have emerged in all their drama. To intervene means to take care of the emergency yes, but also of the post-emergency, that is the phase of reconstruction. It is our specific obligation to take action to ensure that the buildings that have been destroyed are safely rebuilt; and when we talk about buildings, we refer not only to private buildings but also to public ones, including all the artistic, architectural and cultural heritage that is at the heart of the economy of those territories. It is up to us to help safeguard and preserve that heritage. It is up to us to restore a face to those countries that are razed to the ground, guaranteeing the territorial identity and culture of the place. To rebuild means to ensure the preservation and enhancement of the socio-economic fabric of the affected places, rich in local history and traditions. To rebuild means to act through general measures to secure infrastructure, but above all the inhabitants; inhabitants who have so far proved to have an admirable courage. We know that the strength of Italians is extraordinary and knows how to go beyond the economic resources that will be allocated both with this measure and with others that will have to come. It will be strength and solidarity combined with economic support, which each institution must not miss, to enable recovery. What is important at this moment is to give the citizens of Abruzzo, Marche, Umbria and Lazio the opportunity to have a safe place where they can sell local products; it means to give a safe place to resume the school activity of children; it means to receive health care in safety; it means to allow transit through safe infrastructures. If it is true that all Italy needs a plan that secures the homes of Italians, it is also true that this Italy torn by the dramas of August and October cannot be left alone. It cannot be left alone even by Europe: Europe, therefore, does not back down. It is disconcerting to see how it is so cold and how it asks for clarification of the exceptional expenses due to the earthquake and migrants, but without giving hints of solidarity. Lives and human dignity are more important than budgetary constraints. Needless to say, politics cannot move only as a result of exceptional events as earthquakes can be, it cannot act only in a state of emergency. Yet, it is now known that 75% of real estate in Italy does not respect any anti-seismic criteria. And not respecting the anti-seismic rules means leaving the lives of men in the hands of nature, which does not give discounts to anyone when he trembles as impetuously as in recent months. As Sandro Pertini said at the 1980 Irpinia earthquake, the best way to remember the dead is to think about the living. For this reason it is necessary to reconstruct quickly and effectively, but in accordance with the principles of legality, transparency and impartiality. What happened in L'Aquila must no longer happen, where the houses rebuilt after the earthquake in 2009 were designed and built badly and with poor materials. The reconstruction must be safe and, in the event of further shocks, it must not cause the inhabitants of the countries already hard hit to sink into fear. Unfortunately, we are faced with often unpredictable events and, for this reason, it is important to find appropriate solutions to secure the territory before certain tragedies happen. By now everyone knows that much of the Italian territory is in a situation of extreme criticality. We cannot afford to wait on time for the disaster on duty. We owe it to the citizens who live in those places. It would mean uprooting them from their origins, imposing a life that wouldn't be theirs. It makes more sense to invest money in prevention instead of waiting for catastrophic events to rebuild. Today more than ever we are called to act for the security of the territory, which means not land consumption, but to direct investments for the protection of what we have most precious. The Movement strongly and forcefully asks the Government to take action, so that it not only investigates what are the real risks of each territory, but also to find practical solutions to counter them. In conclusion, today each of us is being asked for an effort that goes beyond individual political ideologies. It is time to be united in the face of this tragedy. It is the moment of constructive collaboration: we are called to do so in the name of a vision of our country as the only community. And the communities of the territories affected by the earthquake of 24 August and the successive ones of 26 and 30 October, rightly, do not want any excuses or rhetorical, but above all they do not want, cannot and must no longer wait. Early intervention is a duty for us institutions and a right for citizens who no longer have a home, a school to send their children, the shop or the shed where they used to work and trade. We will always and everywhere be at the side of all citizens in economic and social suffering. For this announcement the favorable vote of the 5 Star Movement Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u197	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u199	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues, the two decree-laws before us show, once again, how complicated our country's regulatory system is. It took two decree-laws, added to the provisions of state of emergency declaration and civil protection orders, to allocate very little resources for immediate intervention and reconstruction. Of the fabulous 6 billion and beyond, there is little trace, because that figure is reached only with an ultra-thirty-year programming that will then be verified in the facts. The things that affect all those who are homeless at this time are basically two. The first is about today, that is to say, knowing what resources are in the field of temporary accommodation; the second is about tomorrow, that is to see how much real money there is for reconstruction. The populations involved in the earthquake ask to be able to arrive to the next summer without suffering impotent a winter that announces itself rigid, but at the same time they ask to be able to put hands as soon as possible to the reconstruction of their homes and to normal resume their activities in order to be able to return to live and start producing again. The experience of 2012, the one managed by Extraordinary Commissioner Errani in Emilia, makes us record the enactment of a little less than 500 orders to apply a rather confused law, with provisions that have created unequal treatment between citizens who were waiting for a state contribution to rebuild their home and those who were waiting for a contribution to restart their company. What was supposed to be a zero bureaucracy reconstruction turned out to be a high-impact administrative machine. Faced with that experience, which, in the end, however, paid 1,189 billion for the residences and 621 million for the companies, it was necessary to simplify further, it was necessary to think of a rule that would sburocratizzase, also because the productive fabric of Umbria, Marche, Abruzzo and Upper Lazio consists mainly of very small, family-run companies, where on the ground floor there is the activity and on the first floor the house. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] It is an all-Italian history of very high quality productivity, which must be taken into account. For now, the resources are far less than those announced and the impact of the bureaucracy that gives us Decree-Law No. 189 seems even more important. And there is no trace of simplification even in the rules added by the maxi amendment that transposes in the first decree the content of Decree-Law No 205. We understand well the risk of mafia infiltrations and we understand the need for controls, but the time that announces the mechanism elaborated by the decree in question seems to be really long and cumbersome. Moreover, if we evaluate the resources allocated for the current year and if we add those for the next year, there are very few amounts put in place. In fact, the bulk of the money earmarked for the earthquake is in the 2017 Budget Act, which is now being examined by the House. But if we make the balance of what is contained in the first section (the old law of stability) and what is included in the missions of the second section (the old budget law itself), there does not seem to be any additional sums in relation to the amounts already provided for in current legislation. On the contrary, the civilian relief mission, which includes disaster interventions and civil protection funds, goes from 3,227 billion in the 2016 settlement budget to 2,906 billion in 2017, and therefore with a budget of 320 million less. With regard to support measures, through the tax system, there are 100 million compared to the 431 already planned with the 2012 tax credit earthquake, related to the subsidised financing for private reconstruction), 200 million are data for public reconstruction, and here we get to 300 million, that is less than the 320 just cut. To these 300 million are added, but not added, as much money from the European funds, which were in any case already in the availability of the regions concerned. Moreover, in the decree under consideration, which absorbs the second, the resources for social contributions not paid in 2017 are recovered by the State already in 2018 and, therefore, it is only the suspension for one year. As far as taxes not collected in 2016, they are even required by the Agency for revenue as early as 2017: here, too, a single year of truce. It should be noted that the only sums to which the State really renounces are house taxes, for an amount close to 38 million per annum. It is very unusual that the waiver of collection is valid only for the next five years, while reconstruction is expected in more than thirty years. We would have missed only that the state demanded the payment of IMU and TASI on uninhabited houses, because collapsed, damaged or not available. The real money remains therefore the 191 million net of the first decree, which add to the 130 million allocated by the three orders, moreover already used for the very first emergency. The funds provided for school building safety measures, i.e. for soil protection, are covered at national level. In fact, there are some financial spaces for municipalities and regions, already programmed and covered in the previous budget, which seem not to add a cent to the existing budget for the year before 2017; in any case, they are funds not exclusively intended for the territories of central Italy. But what really puzzles us is the fact that, while the Renzi Government cannot find real resources for the earthquaked territories, it continues to call for budgetary flexibility in Europe for the earthquake at 0.2% of GDP, i.e. almost EUR 3.4 billion. As we have seen, not even the sum of existing posts and new resources for reconstruction leads to this figure. On the contrary, there are huge resources for the reception of migrants, which has now become a mega business, considering that for 2017 Italy will come to spend a figure close to 4 billion euros, after having spent 3.320 billion in 2016. Of course there's money here. Sorry to make comparisons, but it is right that Italians know that for every migrant is spent the amount of € 975 per month, while for the accommodation of each person affected by the earthquake is given 200 euros per month, with a maximum ceiling of 600 euros per family. We would have liked the President of the Council to raise his voice in Europe in order to obtain more resources for the Italians upset by the earthquake and not to facilitate immigration into our country. It is only now apparent, after almost three years of government, that Italy is net contributor to the European Union for 8 billion a year. But the demand for budgetary flexibility, of new net indebtedness, must be made for concrete things, facing, really, with important resources, the reconstruction and the security of the territory and certainly not to fatten the organizations that are enriched with the reception of migrants. In conclusion, three months have passed since the first earthquake and the populations involved in the earthquake are exhausted and need help. That is why we regard this text as a small, very small step forward. We cannot help but point out that, if the Government had wanted (but had really wanted), it would have been able to allocate real resources and give - then yes - a shock, this time in positive, to the economy of those territories bent by the movements of a land that unfortunately, still this morning, does not mention stopping. The Forza Italia Group, with great responsibility, has promoted a rapid process of the measure in the Commission. However, in the light of all the considerations set out above, considering that the measures contained in the decree-law are insufficient, it will abstain from the approval of the measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u200	We greet in the gallery a delegation of Cuban entrepreneurs and other representatives of Cuba. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u201	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u203	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the undersecretary Paola De Micheli and the rapporteur, Mr Silvio Lai, for the expertise and attention with which they have followed in the Commission and in this House the work of such a long-awaited measure, which provides the populations and territories affected by the earthquakes of 24 August and then of 26 and 30 October the necessary tools to get up, not give up and regain their future, because this is a very difficult challenge that we, however, will succeed in winning. I want to thank Luigi Zanda for having chosen to entrust the Democratic Party's explanation of vote to a senator of one of the municipalities of the crater, those communities of the hinterland of central Italy along the Apennine ridge that binds Marche, Umbria, Abruzzo, Lazio, the four affected Regions, the nerve zone of that backbone of Italy, to use the words of Renzo Piano. To the devastation caused by the earthquake of 24 August, with the destruction of Amatrice, Arquata, Pescara del Tronto and Accumoli, with the irrecoverable drama of 299 victims, but also with the rescue of 238 lives, people extracted live from the rubble thanks to the readiness and coordination of Civil Protection, Fire Departments, Forces of the Order, associations of volunteers and to the tireless work of mayors, officials of the regional government and the national government, have been added the shocks of 26 and, above all, of 30 October, the most violent in Italy since the earthquake of 1980, with epicenter among the Sibillini Mountains, what Leopardi called the blue mountains. The displaced, forced to leave their homes because they are inaccessible, are more than 21,000, of which 15,000 in the Marche sun. Mr President, I, like other colleagues who are here, in the hours immediately following the earthquake, visited some of the most affected countries, I crossed deserted historic centers because I evacuated, became a red zone, inaccessible; I visited tents and gyms used as public dorms, canteens of luck, playgrounds for the many children. I have seen a reaction of great strength and dignity from the elderly and families of whom it is difficult to be as capable. Many families were physically divided by the earthquake: one part settled in hotels near the sea and another remained close to the affected places. It is our task to put everyone in the condition of living together, because one of the deepest wounds is that of psychological discomfort due to uprooting. The damage estimate, Mr President, is constantly updating and tells us of more than 200,000 damaged, unusable properties; more than 3,000 damaged farms; more than 200 unusable stables; 5,000 reports to the Ministry of Culture for damage to artistic heritage; more than 300 schools today temporarily unusable. Serious damage has also occurred to university facilities, especially in Camerino and Macerata. There have also been damage to health facilities; among them the complete closure, following the collapses, of the hospital of Amandola, between the provinces of Ascoli and Fermo, which is the only garrison for a very large mountain area. In the escalation between August and October, the earthquake expanded enormously, by extension and intensity, the damage caused, to involve hundreds of municipalities. We were here, in the Budget Committee, and we were examining the decree-law on the first quake, when the new quake made it necessary a subsequent rule, to respond to the emergency as a whole and in its nature, which in the meantime had changed. And that's what happened. It has resulted in a measure of great quality and innovation, which allows to face every criticality, none excluded, because the text that we are about to approve comes first of all from listening to the needs of the local communities and the social forces and takes into account the fundamental work on the field that in recent months have accomplished - and I thank them for this - Commissioner Errani, the head of civil protection Curcio, the Presidents of the Region and vice-commissaries. It was a participatory governance, which is one of the qualifying points of the decree-law. What emerges is legislation that has never been so effective before, first and foremost in terms of the resources available. Overall, with regard to emergency and reconstruction, in the decree-law and budget law there will be a first allocation of more than 8 billion and then tools for the reconstruction and strengthening of the civil, social and economic fabric of the affected territories. It is a model of intervention that collects the best practices of recent earthquakes, which looks at a reconstruction using procurement procedures based primarily on transparency and control, with a strong supervisory role by the anti-corruption authority. This is one of the most advanced legislation in Europe. And Europe will have to play its part, contributing to the reconstruction funds. Emergency and reconstruction in this decree-law are together, in an overall project that wants to avoid the risk of fragmentation and that puts in a position to do quickly and to do well, to combine participation and speed, because we are already in winter and the housing modules are pressing. We know, Mr President, that what is at stake is our own destiny, the fate of a fundamental part of the country and its identity, represented by that wide range of Apennine villages from which European culture draws its roots. We must fight the risk of desertification and dispersion that was already present in such fragile areas in recent years. Work must be defended first, the business chain and the productive heritage must be preserved, strength must be given to an artisan model that is a unique in the world, a mix of social and human capital that is one with the territories and from which are born important industrial districts that are proud of Made in Italy. Woe to disperse agricultural and livestock production or food excellence. This is what happens with this decree-law, which provides support and tools to put all economic and productive subjects in the conditions of sharing, as it provides for the support of the workers affected, the direct contribution to the self-employed and atypical workers, wage integration, the heavy pay envelope (without deduction) for the employees. This is a measure that, in order to respond to the urgency of the new earthquake - and this is a decisive point - extends the perimeter of the crater to include 131 municipalities, which have been identified by the Regions on the basis of the intensity and extent of the damage. We know, Mr President - and I want to say this forcefully - that the checks are still under way and that we are still at the beginning of a journey. For this reason the rules are flexible, with wide meshes and will allow interpretative orders. For this reason nobody excludes that, on the basis of the verification of agibility and the quantification of the damages, the Presidents of the Region can propose to the commissioner and the Government the integration of the crater. In fact, I'm sure this will happen. In all cases, the aim is to rebuild all the existing urban and Community fabric and therefore, Mr President, to rebuild everything. For the first time, in the decree-law under consideration it gives total refreshment, at 100 percent, not only to the first houses, but also to the second houses - it had not happened because of the tragedy of the Eagle and Emilia Romagna - outside the crater, which are in the historical centers, in the villages, in the hamlets and even to the scattered houses, if rented. I want to say, Mr President, that the controversy over free zones seems propaganda to me, because the rules already in place now remove any tax and are much better than those free zones that the Government has undertaken to assess after the emergency phase. Mr President, subjective rights are established, which will be financed over the years. In conclusion, much has been done with the adoption of the amendments: I am thinking, for example, of the suspension of the television fee, telephone bills and insurance. Then there is a very important package, which supports the municipalities and whose holding is decisive, with the exclusion of balance of the budget, the suspension of loans and financial obligations, the increase of staff, to speed up the monitoring and also the possibility of using municipal technicians to draw up the fact sheets. Finally, I recall that the decree-law inserts all the infrastructures, even the municipal ones, in the competence of ANAS, with certainty of financing and completeness of the works. Mr President, we are going to vote with the awareness that we have done a good job, that problems are enormous, but also that we have the tools to deal with them today. The Democratic Party vote is based on this. We will have other hard and complicated months ahead and we cannot miss anything, for the responsibility we have towards those in need of urgent answers. The emergency, Mr President, has no color: in the face of the emergency, we work together and I hope there will be a unanimous vote. It would be the best way to give our country the trust and strength it deserves. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Panizza.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u204	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u205	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u206	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am unfortunately obliged to declare my vote in dissension with regard to the measure under consideration, for the sake of fairness, seriousness and responsibility. I'm doing this for at least three reasons. Firstly, the resources allocated to this measure are laughable compared to the resources needed for reconstruction, which will be long, troubled and rough thanks to the measure under consideration. In addition, the list of municipalities included in the crater is largely incomplete and discriminatory against some municipalities severely damaged, but excluded only for political reasons, while the choice should have taken place on the basis of objective criteria, based on the damage. Finally, it was rejected the very sensible proposal to acquire part of the building assets available on the territory, to meet housing needs, because the Government must place the housing modules already purchased by the Consorzio nazionale servizi di Bologna at the price of one billion and 200 million euros, with a choice that results in a huge waste of public money, that will need to use other soil and realize further urbanizations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u207	We now come to the examination of the coordination proposal C1, which is intended to be presented. Mr Lai, rapporteur. Mr President, I give you an example. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the Commission. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the final vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 189 of 17 October 2016 on urgent interventions in favour of the populations affected by the earthquake of 24 August 2016" with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed authorized to make any changes to the formal coordination that may prove necessary. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Mixed Groups]] I therefore suspend the sitting until 4 p.m., in order to allow Commissions 5a and 6a to conclude the examination of the tax decree which will be sent to the Chamber and examined from 4 p.m. onwards. (The sitting was suspended at 13.23 a.m. and resumed at 16.04 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u208	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2595, already approved by the House of Deputies. The President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Tonini, reports on the work of the Commissions meeting 5a and 6a.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u209	Madam President, the Commissions meeting 5a and 6a have examined the text of the tax decree-law, which is of course compatible with the narrowness of the timetable laid down by this House. This narrowness of time did not allow us to vote on the amendments and in particular to vote on the rapporteur's term of office. A number of subjects have been discussed, in agreement with the Groups, which have given rise to a discussion on the agenda and on the transformation of certain amendments into agendas, with the commitment also made by the Government, represented by Deputy Minister Casero - of which both myself and my colleague Marino have made sure as far as possible - that some of these issues can be taken into account during the examination of the draft budget law. It is, however, in the eyes of the Assembly that the tax decree-law constitutes an important part, significant from the quantitative and qualitative point of view, of the budgetary maneuver and that the Senate could not consider it with the accuracy and also the availability of times that would have been necessary. I therefore believe that it is all the more appropriate that in the course of our work, when we enter the budgetary session, this element should also be taken into account by the Government, to whom I should like to submit it so that there can be sufficient room for these aspects and these issues, which are certainly interacting with the budget law, to be discussed and, if necessary, also given the opinion of the senators in the budget committee and then in this House. Therefore, with regard to the continuation of our work, the work of the Commissions meeting was completed without a mandate to the rapporteur but with the adoption, however important, of certain agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u210	In relation to Senator Tonini's report, bill No 2595, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate examines draft law No 2595, which converts Decree-Law No 193 of 22 October 2016 laying down provisions on taxation and the financing of indifferent needs. As can be seen from the title and preamble, the Decree-Law under consideration would find its basis in the extraordinary need and urgency for the needs of public finance and for the correct relationship between tax and taxpayer and to optimise the collection activity. However, most of the provisions contained therein (and in particular Articles l, 3 and 5) will only have substantial effects as from June 2017 and beyond. In the decree-law in question, apart from the style clauses and the statements of principle contained in the preamble, the facts or circumstances connoted by the requirements of extraordinaryness, necessity and urgency that would require to provide by decree-laws are not listed in any way; requirements that must be jointly included in order to legitimize the use of extraordinary, exceptional and urgent powers proper to the decree of urgency by the Government. The Court ruled as follows: 29 of 1995, 171 of 2007, 128 of 2008 and 22 of 2012, the Constitutional Court considered the decree-law unlawful if its content does not respect the constraint of homogeneity. In addition, with regard to the regulatory context in which the decree-law is incorporated, it cries out with the basic tax law in force, which is the statute of the taxpayer's rights, Law No 212 of 2000, which in Article 4 prohibits the use of the decree-law in tax matters. There is, therefore, an abuse of the use of urgent decrees which, in this case, is only the means of demeaning debate and parliamentary scrutiny and of making people believe in the illusion that they have achieved certain objectives immediately. With regard to the substance of the individual provisions, as regards the planned abolition of Equitalia, it is evident that the measure essentially results in a mere change in the capacity of the person responsible for collection. On that point, the Constitutional Court, by judgment No 480 of 30 December 1993, had already established the principle of the necessary relationship in terms of adequacy and reasonableness between the measure of the measure of the measure and the threshold for covering the cost of the procedure. The violation of Article 3 of the Constitution also emerges in relation to the provisions on voluntary cooperation for the return of foreign capital. In fact, the reopening of the terms of access to the voluntary collaboration is expected, allowing the submission of the application until 31 July 2017 for the violations committed until 30 September 2016. However, the reopening of the deadline for the submission of the application for membership of the voluntary disclosure is not accompanied by an increase in the penalty, in fact generating a difference of treatment between citizens compared to their position with the Italian tax. Unconstitutionality by lack of reasonableness and equality also concerns the provisions relating to the facilitated definition referred to in Article 6. The measure, which some observers have indicated to have connotations "condonistic" in a broad sense in essence, does not distinguish at all between those who have failed to declare and pay amounts to the tax for the sole purpose of evasion of taxes (with penalties charged for omission or fraudulent declaration) and those who, on the other hand, have omitted or delayed payment, not having the possibility and the means to deal with them. It is also significant to predict the subjects who access the definition having already in progress a installment: even in this case, it favours those who had decided not to provide in any way for the payment (with the full rebate of the sanctions) compared to those who, although having regular payments, are admitted to the definition without the reimbursement of the penalties already paid. This is a clear unjustified difference in treatment which puts all its effects on the constitutional legitimacy of the rule under consideration in relation to Article 3 of the Constitution. Finally, with reference to the provisions on the facilitated definition, it is noted that the use of the reduction or exclusion of sanctions as a means of obtaining additional financial resources to meet the costs of the State, implies a distorted use of the sanctioning instrument since the tax purpose prevails over the punitive function. Therefore, the levy resulting from these measures must be assimilated to the tax levy itself, with the consequent verification of compatibility with Article 53 of the Constitution. With reference to the provisions contained in Article 9 of the decree-law, it can only stigmatize yet another erroneous use of the decree of urgency, moreover on the point clearly heterogeneous, in the matter of Italian participation in the international missions of peace. More in detail, after decades of systematic and contradictory emergency decrees, every year (when not half-yearly or even quarterly), in order to guarantee Italian participation in the above-mentioned international missions, the aforementioned Article 9 provides again on the same field in ways and forms not provided for by the current framework legislation. This is despite the entry into force of Law No 145 of 21 July 2016 (so-called framework law for Italy's participation in international missions). The contrast between the same article 9 and Resolution No. 2240 of 2015 of the United Nations must also be noted, which not only does not contain the authorization to move to the second phase of Operation EUNAVFOR Med Sophia, but excludes any kind of presence of foreign troops in Libyan territory. In view of this, the provision presents profiles of contrast with the international commitments made - and therefore fully in force in our legal system - pursuant to Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitutional Charter. Finally, contradicting the desired simplification, the decree-law contributes to further complicate the functioning of the tax system, enriching it with additional bureaucratic dowels, new and onerous additional obligations and difficulties for operators and professionals who make the data available and intelligible for the financial administration. Moreover, the constant change in the rules, in addition to the discriminatory premium provisions mentioned above, contributes to frustrating any proclamation of a serious fight against tax evasion, where the aforementioned Article 53 of the Constitution would require interventions of a very different nature than those adopted in recent years. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, it is requested not to proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 2595. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He asked Senator Bernini to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u212	Madam President, having had so little time, even in the Commission, to examine this measure, I am somewhat embarrassed to hear the comments made on its content. As we have also seen in the Chamber, this decree-law (and I stress that it is a decree-law) contains, as the title says, measures in tax matters and measures defined, by a rather obscure expression, indifferent requirements. Here too, unfortunately, we are faced with titles whose content is very different. In this case, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are obliged to examine the constitutionality of the measure that is being submitted to us quickly, with super-quota times, after the Commission, as President Tonini told us, has been ejected to the House even without the rapporteur. We must give a constitutional judgment on a container, which brings us to our attention, assuming that we respect the requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution, that is, extraordinary necessity and urgency of the provisions, structural rules in tax matters. Once again I repeat what we have said in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where we should have had to stop this measure because of our obligation to be a constitutional filter, of which each of us, once again, must assume responsibility and whose requirements of necessity and urgency, as we shall see, in most of the provisions contained in it simply do not exist. Article 1 brings the transformation of Equitalia from public limited liability companies (although publicly owned) into a public economic entity, when we know that, at the end of the financial year 2016, there was no need for this acceleration. I regret to think that all of us, not only the Committee on Constitutional Affairs but also this House, have become addicted to giving a majority approval (and we will continue to oppose to the end this barbaric practice) to measures that are profoundly unconstitutional. In total defiance of Article 77 of the Constitution the equity company is transformed into a public economic entity by working a double contempt for the Constitution, placing it on a locomotive that has nothing necessary and urgent but that is deeply heterogeneous and uneven. Moreover, there is a change within the company itself, transforming the staff into employees of a public economic entity: we are talking about 8,000 employees of the company Equitalia contracted through the forms of private law. This is a clear violation and this is the first, indeed the second violation of constitutionality, after the macro-violation of Article 77, of which, alas, we of the opposition have become tired of talking, citing unnecessarily sentences of the Constitutional Court that tell us simply that we must not do so, that the Government cannot use the decree-law improperly, contrary to the Constitution, and that we should not legitimize it. In addition to this, there is also an infringement of Article 97 of the Constitution, so that all employees working in the public service must do so through a public evidence procedure and this will not happen for the 8,000 employees of Equitalia. We all remember what the President-in-Office of the Council said, obviously on television, there is now a military occupation of all kinds of information spaces (television spaces, radio stations, journalists): by now we are invaded by this endless electoral campaign that subjects us to a continuous communicative stalking. We remember when our President-in-Office told us exactly: "Cucù, Equitalia is no longer there." No, just like the Provinces and like the Senate, Equitalia is there [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] , it is alive and unfortunately struggles with us, with 8,000 employees who magically, without contest, in contempt of all the judgments of the Constitutional Court that tell us that it is not possible to do so, will turn into civil servants (because this establishes the measure) without changing the legal status and of course - it is never - economic; I also point out that this will be an extra cost, because the wages of private employment are higher than those of the public employment. This will happen in total contempt to those who have made a contest, which is not only a selection, but a comparative evaluation for exams and titles, where there are other candidates besides the subjects that must be legitimized and selected. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have made this clear everywhere: we have told the House of Members, where, of course, the measure has passed as quickly as possible, because we know that unfortunately the train of these decree-laws no longer stops at certain stations where it should stop for express prediction of the Constitution - I repeat this once again. We have tried to say several times that when you make titles, when you put the themes, you have to make consequent changes: here we cannot work with slides, with proclamations, we cannot make propaganda, we are legislators and the titles must correspond content! When it comes to the dismantling of the debitory folders - and this is a very close issue for us at Forza Italia - it really must include under this heading adequate content to assist taxpayers in serious economic difficulties, whether they date back or momentarily. I think of people who find themselves in a dramatic situation at the end of each month to decide whether to pay salaries to employees, whether to pay taxes, mortgages, installments on sheds or houses or whether to pay taxes. We have presented a bill for a real destruction of the debitory records, which is not a sanatorium, but gives the possibility to the compliant taxpayer, who declares up to the last euro but temporarily does not have the money to honour his debt to the State, to be fulfilling, through instalments and payment staggers. However, this is not what this measure does, which in fact wants to make a cashier and once again wants to put the wrong content under an apparently fair title. It is not true that Equitalia is no longer there; it is not true that the dismantling of the folders will bring benefits to the compliant taxpayers. Five set-aside payments in such a short time, with the need to pay 70% of what was immediately due, are an advantage for tax evasion and not for honest taxpayers. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] And they're just one way for this government to make money soon and spend another title at the umpteenth electoral deadline. We are deeply opposed to this. On the contrary, we, with our bill, which we have brought to the attention of all our colleagues because we wanted to share it, without politically labeling it, we had created real assistance to the honest taxpayer and now we are faced with a useless sanatoria that, unfortunately, will not even lead to the collection that the State believes it can obtain. The same applies to voluntary disclosure, but this is another theme that will concern another element of unconstitutionality of this most unhappy and arrogant decree-law, yet another of this Government. I spoke about the part that should never have been included in a decree-law but, like all the fiscal matters that are destined to regulate permanently the citizen's relations with the tax authorities, with the state, with the maker, with the tax collector, should have been subjected to the attention of all of us and to the parliamentary debate. Even more so, ladies and gentlemen - and with this, Madam President, I conclude - for the famous indisputable needs, what else are only pre-election tips? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] rained out to recipients who only have to vote yes. An example for all: 600 million bells on the railways, not to speed up the trains, but to heal the disassembled and disarmed budgets of a society decolished from the era of the Bassolini administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u213	Finish your speech, Senator Bernini.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u214	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a good government, this is a legislative arrogance. For all these reasons and for a small problem of lack of coverage, we oppose the continuation of this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u215	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u216	Madam President, once again we are obliged to ask a preliminary question about the umpteenth decree-law of the Government, which we all already know will end in the umpteenth way, that is to say with the imposition of the question of trust. As far as this decree is concerned, we are clearly faced with a violation of Article 77 of the Constitution. The first point is the question of the total heterogeneity of the decree, which, among other things, increased during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies. In addition to the main object, which concerns Equitalia, we are faced with rules ranging from the Social Fund for Employment and Training to the Guarantee Fund for Credit to Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, measures for the Municipalities in favour of immigrants, coordination measures for the settlements of nomads, provisions on ISMEA contracts, measures for regional transport, financing the railway crossing of the Milan-Saronno line, the allocation of new resources for the contract to RFI, measures for the promotion and development of the agri-food sector. And we could stay here and continue to list all the absolutely heterogeneous measures contained within the decree. Among other things, frankly, it is beginning to become more than arbitrary the idea of wanting to put a piece, with regard to the constitutional conditions under Article 77 of the Constitution, with the simple fact, at least with regard to the condition of homogeneity, to add the financing of indifferent needs; all based on the self-assertion of the Government itself according to which the measures are varied and urgent. The second question concerns the nature of necessity and urgency. I understand - because we have been in this position for many months now - that everything is urgent in relation to the referendum, but now it is being frankly exaggerated. We are faced with the fact that the only absolutely fundamental requirement of a decree-law, namely the extraordinary need and urgency to provide, with regard to this measure concerning the affair of Equitalia, is, in our opinion, together with other rules, only and solely linked to propaganda for the referendum. Among other things Renzi should agree with himself, because once he uses small instruments with full hands that can evoke some benefit for the citizens to propaganda the yes, while on other parts he does terrorism creating disorientation in the country and in the citizens themselves (truly, these days, also around Europe). Moreover, the affirmation of the urgency of a measure on Equitalia is quite curious because this question had been announced several times also in the speeches that the President of the Council keeps on social live streaming (I don't know if they call themselves "Matthew responds" or something like that): an intervention on Equitalia had been announced several times and, moreover, on the matter itself the Government had already intervened on several occasions. This is to say that, without recourse to the decree-law, without this urgency, there had been three abundant years to arrive at a regulatory intervention and a true reform. There is another element that is absolutely questionable from the constitutional point of view, as well as the homogeneity of nothing and the necessity and urgency, which is equally null and void. In this case, in fact, as the Constitutional Court rightly states, it is not enough for the preamble to the decree-law to make the apodictic statement that it is absolutely necessary and urgent - and therefore there are the requirements - to intervene on Equitalia to meet the requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution, but we are now used to this going for a very long time. But there are other incredible and conflicting elements with the constitutional principles that, I understand, also in the light of the constitutional reform, are no longer points of reference of this majority: in this case we are faced with an operation that, in conjunction with the transfer of the collection function of Equitalia to the Revenue Agency, then grants a wide sanatoria, providing for the facilitated definition, with relative cancellation of sanctions and interests, of all the loads entrusted to the collectors between 2000 and 2015, for a total of 51 billion euros of unpaid taxes and fines, but from which the Government expects the small collection of only 2 billion. 16.33 p.m. (De PETRIS follow-up). This forecast of sanatoria has already determined, in the aftermath of its announcement, a sudden block - and it was normal for this to happen - of the expected flow of revenue, with further negative impacts on public finance balances. At the end of the day, we will have to take into account how much this propaganda costs public finances, i.e. what is the referendary impact on the balances. Contrary to what the taxpayer wants to believe, the counterpart will not be that of a more friendly tax, but rather there will be an increase in the information capacity and pervasiveness of Equitalia than it had previously. On this, even from the point of view of the consequences, perhaps we should reflect in some way. Another frankly incredible issue, in our opinion also conflicting with many constitutional principles, is that precisely Article 1, exactly in paragraph 15, is limited to establishing that the collection activity will continue until 30 June 2017 according to the current legal regime. But there is nothing to be said, for example, about the extension of the legal regime of protection granted so far to those taxpayers who are actually in a state of serious economic difficulty, through the granting of instalments. The very clear risk in this provision, which is called into question in Article 3 of our Constitution, is that, on the one hand, there is a very large sanatorium and a facilitated regime for those who have escaped and have very large tax decrees, but have the possibility to pay, while, on the other hand, there is no certainty for those who are in a real state of difficulty, for whom it is not quite clear whether there is an extension of the facilities. There is therefore a clear violation of Article 3. As far as the measure of real pardon is concerned, because the voluntary disclosure in fact presents itself in this way, it is, in our opinion, a violation not only of Article 2 but also of Article 53 of the Constitution. For all these very clear reasons of unconstitutionality, we believe that this measure should stop here. For this reason, we ask that we do not proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 2595. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u217	He asked to intervene Senator Divina to illustrate the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u218	Madam President, it is a continuous recourse to the decree of urgency and in fact we are faced with the umpteenth rule of conversion of a decree-law. To us it seems that, by now, the decree of urgency has become almost practical in this country, to the point of becoming the ordinary procedure for the production of primary norms. The trouble is that, in addition to distorting a whole system of regulatory pillars, it works the greatest damage in a democracy, that is, the emptying of Parliament's role. It is interesting to see what the lawyers say about these procedures at the limit, if not prevaricating the limit. The lawyers say that the abuse of the decree-law is a degeneration that can even obscure the constitutional principles of primary importance certainly poses a problem of legal certainty, not only because it produces an institutional imbalance between Parliament and the Government, through the upheaval of Article 70 of the Constitutional Charter, but also because (second significant damage) it deprives the opposition of the power to exercise its own function of direction and political control. We recall that Article 77 of the Constitution assigns ownership of the regulatory power in the Chambers collectively and establishes precise substantive limits (extraordinaryness and urgency), as well as formal (an effectiveness limited in time) to the legislative power of the Government, which can only be exercised, but not held as a power attributed to the Government. The excessive expansion of the government's regulatory power has been censored several times by both the Head of State and numerous judgments of the Constitutional Court, which have called for the restoration of a correct constitutional path for the approval of laws. We mention only two: Judgment No. 171 of 2007, which declared the constitutional illegitimacy of some articles of a 2004 provision for lack of requirements of necessity and urgency, and Judgment No. 128 of 2008, which also highlights the lack of factual assumptions, such as the unevenness, which characterizes these decree-laws very often. Moreover, the Constitutional Court also states that the constitutional illegitimacy of the legislative procedure is not remedied by the law of conversion, on the contrary, it is in turn unconstitutional for a vice of the whole procedure. In spite of all these calls from the guarantee bodies, the Commission continues to issue decree-laws: we have calculated that, on average, we are converting two decree-laws every month. In fact, for the decree-law to our examination there is no reference to the prerequisites of necessity and urgency and the report presented to the Chambers contains exclusively norms for the illustration of the individual articles, that is to say that one does not even "sprey" in fearing a minimum of legal premise in order to justify the exercise of a power not attributed to the Government, but to the Chambers. But let us examine the decree-law: first, the title already shows the unevenness, while the Court has repeatedly considered that the requirement of homogeneity is as important as those required by Article 77 of the Constitution, i.e. the prerequisites of necessity and urgency. In the text of the decree-law there is no homogeneity, since only the first two Heads actually speak of measures corresponding to the title, in the matter of collection and taxation: in Chapter III there is talk of measures of financing of needs defined by the Government as indifferent and here inside there "falls" a sum of omnibus provisions, ranging from the themes of employment, defence and transport up to the matter of reception, we talk about the promotion of the agro-food sectors, cinema and sport, sectors that deserve our total attention, but as to homogeneity with the title and with the rest of the tax sector just "not good for us". We can say: homogeneity, this unknown. In fact, Chapters I and II speak exclusively of subjects of an orderly nature. In our opinion, at this point, the use of the urgent decree is justified only from the political point of view: the government, at this moment, prefers to adopt the urgent decree rather than resort to the normal instrument, precisely to avoid the parliamentary path. There are therefore very strong doubts and reservations about the constitutionality of the decree, given the serious deficiencies in terms of the constitutional presuppositions and the fact that it is characterized by a regulatory system typical of the classic omnibus decrees. That is why we ask the Assembly not to proceed with the examination of the bill of conversion: a draft law is presented and ordinary roads are crossed. I would like to say more: this also contradicts the great constitutional reform that we have been talking about so far and on which, in just over ten days, the Italian people will have to express themselves, since one of the prerequisites on which the Renzi Government has set itself disappears, saying that we must simplify and speed up the procedures. What good is the constitutional change, the great reform, if the government shows that in twenty-four hours it can produce all the rules it wants, to the point of arriving and obliging us - as will happen shortly - to accept the package "take or leave" because we already know that trust will be placed? In less than twenty-four hours, the Italian Parliament is able to start any kind of rule. So Italians who have a minimum of corn salt will understand that constitutional reform is oriented to all other objectives, such as strengthening an Executive or giving more powers to the Premier (right or wrong, for us it is aberrant), but it is absolutely not to simplify and speed up the legislative process, since we have seen how in less than twenty-four hours we can make a law here. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u219	We greet the students and students of the Institute of Higher Education "Gaetano Salvemini-Emanuele Filiberto Duca d'Aosta" in Florence. Welcome and welcome to the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u220	He asked Senator Bruni to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP5. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u221	Madam President, our question for a preliminary ruling arises from the analysis of that part of the decree-law which focuses on the reform of Equitalia: a genuine reform of the collection system, because that must be defined. With this we can immediately note the non-susistence of the presuppositions of necessity and urgency, precisely because, precisely, it is, rather than a decree-law with the requirements for it provided for by the Constitution, an integral reform of the system that is implemented - as we have heard from previous interventions - through the transition from Equitalia to the Agency of Revenues, with the creation of a new public economic agency that is the Agency of Revenue-Responsion that becomes an instrumental institution. Well, that is precisely what should make us think that, if we were in a normal Parliament and were to apply the rules of the Constitution, as well as the rules of law consequent on the principles of the Constitution, we would have to examine a bill for the reform of the collection, freed from a fast decree-law, for which the time is short in the Commission and will arrive, in a few minutes, at the vote of confidence. It is precisely the opposite of what a Parliament must do, whatever it is, monocameral or bicameral, which normally has to look at laws centered on a much larger temporal space and not on mere contingency, or even, as in the case of the last decrees-laws, on the mere pre-referendary contingency which is the figure of the legislative season inspired, in recent months, by the Renzi Government. The operation involves a wide sanatorium - as has been said - with a facilitated definition of the debitory folders from 2000 to 2016. Here too, for example, we would have to discuss the fate of those who, at the turn of the year 2000, were sub-judiced, because they may have seized previous accounting records and could not avail themselves of the condons of the first years of 2000. This operation consists in bending the instrument of the decree of urgency to an urgency - this yes, real - of the Government, as we said, to regain approval of the view of 4 December. We could address this mechanism as an "electoral tip" operation, which, from 80 euros onwards, is one of the constants of this government. However, it should be explained to the citizen, who may be the user of that tip, that this kind of gift has a very salty price: the dismantling of the folders generates injustice against those subjects who have paid everything for time and even for those who have asked for the installment, in clear contempt of Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution. Not only that: paragraph 1 of Article 3 provides for the possibility of the Agency of revenue, once it has become the collecting institution, to access the databases of which it is already in possession as a determining body. At the time of collection, therefore, there will be a strong pervasiveness of this new entity that is established, creating a considerable imbalance between the creditors and the citizens, who see their right to privacy deleted in full. The decree-law also raises doubts in other parts of its content, starting, in particular, from the judgment n. 220 of 2013 of the Constitutional Court, where it has explicitly stated that the decree-law cannot carry out an organic system reform because of the clearly non-urgent nature of such interventions, as I have tried to explain. Among other things, the measure, with regard to Equitalia, did not raise the question of the fate of the Social Security Fund for employees of the exactory-receiving direct taxes, which was autonomously managed within the INPS. The decree-law did not clarify how these resources were being used. Perhaps, with an agenda approved in the Commission, some clarification has been brought in the last few hours and this would remove further concern. With regard to the mechanism introduced by the decree-law for the reopening of the terms of the voluntary disclosure, it must be said that a further uncertainty is created regarding the balances and cover of the bill and this certainly involves non-compliance with the criteria set out in Article 81 of the Constitution. Moreover, the instrumentality of this decree-law in relation to the budget law shows the absence of the conditions laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution. The tax decree-law would have had to intervene downstream of the budget law; in this way, surely, there would have been a greater organicity in the combined arrangement between the budget law and the subsequent tax decree-law. The decree-law, as we have heard, has interventions aimed at affecting various different subjects and sectors of the order. We go from tax matters to the financing of social shock absorbers, to the participation of military personnel in operations in Libya. We intervene, as we have heard, with financing for the railway network and with the recalled extraordinary contribution for the Campania Region of 600 million in order to cope with debts of the managements of the center-left governments in that Region. As you can see, the matter is truly heterogeneous and there is a conflict with the principles established also recently by the judgment n. 22 of 2012 of the Court, which linked the recognition of the existence of the factual premises, required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution for the issuing of a decree-law, to an intrinsic consistency of the norms contained in the decree-law. Moreover, this judgment, referring to Law No. 400 of 1988, recalls the fact that the presuppositions of necessity and urgency must be found within the entire decree-law and not only in certain paragraphs and provisions, an aspect that highlights a general disorganicity of the decree-law. I would like to comment that the problem, in order to remain in the topicality of these days and in the discussions on the margins of the referendum debate, is not the perfect bicameralism or the confused one, as some say, that I propose to us the Premier and his majority, but rather the scientific and systematic violation by the Executive of those rules that, although not new, exist and constitute the garrison of the fundamental principle of the separation of powers and democracy itself. As you can see, the unconstitutional aspects of the measure are serious, as I have tried to illustrate so far and as the other Members have done and are not sanable, because the work done in the Commission, having been interrupted, has certainly not improved the intrinsic objective defects of this decree-law. For these reasons, we ask that the Assembly decide not to proceed with the examination of draft law No 2595. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u222	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u225	TREMONTI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, it is an honour and a pleasure for me to speak under your presidency. Madam President, Senators, the politically central point in the economy of the decree-law in question is not in what was at the origin and in what is still there, spread over 217 pages of acts: to use an expression that has elegantly entered into the political terminology of our country, a bunch of one-off and a "pocum", complications and simplifications, one capable of eluding the other. [[Applause from the GAL groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and CoR and Senator Zin.]] The point I would like to talk about - everything has already been said - is that of the 1,000 euros. It appears to be a marginal point, but in essence it is fundamental, because it already affects some millions of citizens with VAT numbers, evaders from today until proven otherwise. Incidentally, it also seems to me that it is the de profundis of the tax friend. The norm could extend, as it is absurdly written, even to professionals. In any case, the prospect is that it will extend to all citizens. With a small rule, a great principle is being attacked. Beware of the principle of freedom in the use of property on the fundamental side of the property of money and, therefore, also of savings. Article 47 of the Constitution provides that the Republic shall encourage and protect savings...; it shall regulate, coordinate and monitor the exercise of credit. It seems to me that the action taken by this Government these days is a reversal of this principle. The government has tried to protect the credit and has done so in the chaotic way we have seen, starting from the bail in so voted in this House, on which I believe that many technicians, more than politicians, will still have to be acquitted but not for "not having committed" but for "not having understood" the fact. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and CoR]] In reality, here today, by overturning Article 47 of the Constitution, savings are not protected by regulating credit, savings are regulated and it is done in an unacceptable and unconstitutional way. That small rule, without reason and in violation of the Constitution, introduces the principle of controlled and limited use of money and, therefore, of saving, so that the fate of your money and your savings come to depend on the fate of the bank where you have to leave it. It is not that the beginning, because this inexorably starts a process that goes towards the total concentrationary control of the lives of others. It's just the beginning. It can be said that it is only the first frame of the next Ventura cage, but, as the poet Dante said, you do not deceive the amplitude of the intratement. It may be that the future is that of electronic money, bill coin and non-money, but it cannot be that our present is that of non-property. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL), LN-Aut and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u226	I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling, with several reasons, by Senator Bottici and other senators (QP1), Senator Bernini and other senators (QP2), Senator De Petris and other senators (QP3), Senator Divina and other senators (QP4) and Senator Bonfrisco and other senators (QP5). It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u227	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of bill No 2595, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 193 of 22 October 2016, into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u228	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been placed on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 193, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore call upon the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate. The 5th Commission is hereby authorised to meet in order to give its opinion on the text of the measure. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 5 p.m. and resumed at 5.56 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u229	The Conference of Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the decree-law containing provisions in tax matters, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Two hours and five minutes were allocated to the debate on trust, which will take place this evening, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The final explanations of vote will take place tomorrow morning, starting at 9.30 a.m., and will follow, therefore, call you. After the vote of confidence, the Assembly will decide on the request for a statement of urgency by Senator Bottici, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law establishing a Committee of Inquiry into the Community (Il Forteto). The Conference of Leaders also agreed unanimously that, after this vote, the draft law on the professional responsibility of health workers would continue to be discussed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u230	I give the floor to the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Tonini, to report to the Assembly on the financial cover profiles of the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u231	Mr President, the 5th Commission met to examine the cover profiles of the Decree-Law conversion bill; it took note of the technical report, which was positively verified by the General Accounting Office of the State, and did not make any mention of it. Therefore, I can give an opinion of no objection, since there are no comments from the 5th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u232	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u233	Mr President, we are here today to discuss the question of the government's confidence in the tax measure. The first point to make concerns the timing: in two hours we had to analyse the text in the Joint Commissions 5a and 6a, in which we could not even make a serious analysis of the measure, which is complex. This is a measure for which consideration may have taken longer, and it is not me who says so, but the Deputy Minister himself, who pointed out that some articles had to be reworded and that the text contains errors; errors which will most likely be corrected by the budget law. Wanting, the time available would have been there, because the decree-law was issued on 22 October and therefore, in thirty-one days, after the analysis of the Chamber, we also had time to be able to verify and deepen it, especially in view of the fact that the provision is very important precisely for the law of accounting. In fact, many of the covers that the budget law will need are contained in the text at our examination and therefore, correctly, we should have made our comments now. They had to give us a way to implement all the corrections that the legislation needed, precisely to start the debate on the budget law in a clear way, and above all on a certain basis. On the other hand, we have been forced, even prevented from holding the general debate on this measure, so much so that once we voted on the prejudices - ready and away - confidence was placed and so we avoided the time of the general debate. Why make senators talk? Why make them say things that aren't right? That's what I'm sorry about, President. Our role, however, is to analyse the measures together and try to improve them. At least, if all this makes sense, I thought I had come here precisely to perform this function. Returning to the measure at our examination, I will use this moment, even if it is about the discussion on the demand for trust, to enter also from the technical point of view on the substance of the measure. On the other hand, this is the only space I have left to make my observations. Let us start from the fact that the President-in-Office of the Council says that this measure is necessary - and thus puts confidence - to get the money that is needed to cover the deficit of 2.3% that we will have. Let's go with order: first, it dissolves Equitalia and it is widely advertised to the citizens. However, I would like someone to explain to me what will actually change for taxpayers who will receive the debitory records, since the sanctioning system remains exactly the same, and indeed, the scented settlement has been included among the sums to be paid and, therefore, the facilitated definition of the folders, so-called scrapping, lapses. The folders will simply be managed by an instrumental agency of the Revenue Agency and therefore, in the end, nothing changes. Moreover, since the dissolution, Equitalia is still outside justice, which - as we all know in this House - governs, for its own sake, the single justice fund created specifically for the purpose of centralizing and managing the resources deriving from administrative criminal seizures and civil and bankruptcy proceedings. I would remind you that these sums are not in the state's availabilities, but must only be administered throughout the proceedings and cannot be used except in the presence of a judgment passed in court. During all this time Equitalia collects theaggio, determined annually by decree of the Ministry of the economy, reaching also very high amounts, being provided computerized procedures and standardized to make to flow to the FUG money and securities. So, with one move, the government collects, on the one hand, the consent of the citizens to whom it went to tell that Equitalia is no longer there and that finally the renzism has saved them from the monster of crazy folders. On the other side, though, what do you do? A large part of the power is held, saving an important branch of the collection agency, which will surely be remembered by the President of the Council on 4 December. Moving forward, the meter is abolished and the whole system of transmission of data, invoices and periodic clearances of VAT consignments is reviewed. Thus, the Government ensures a substantial cash flow of more than one billion in 2017 alone, but significantly aggravates companies. And we think especially of small businesses, small artisans. I can understand the big companies that, perhaps, have the staff to produce all this system of documents, but the small craftsman, who works from morning to 6 o'clock until evening at 22 o'clock, what does he have to do? Then you have to fill out documents because you have to make the communication? We are talking, however, about simplification. But to me the quarterly communication instead of the annual communication does not seem to be quite a good example of sburocratization. This is one of the key points. And the European Union also tells us that perhaps we have too much bureaucracy. Then, a good reform in order to actually unravel our system was perhaps more necessary than the reform of the constitutional law. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] And while Italian companies are becoming more and more aggravated, the State collects the sanctions that will be immediately applicable from 2017. Nor is it given the time to adapt to the software house companies that have to prepare the package. Therefore, taxpayers will be fined, but not because of a voluntary omission of data, but simply because of a technical problem. Then who goes to explain to the IRS that there was this problem? The IRS doesn't care. If the IRS sees that the data isn't coming, they'll fine and they don't give a damn about the whole contingent motivation. Finally, we come to the main node of the decree-law: the breaking of folders. I would like to ask the government how it thinks that citizens who have not paid so far with installments can now pay huge debts in just two years; on the contrary, only in the first year must we pay an amount equal to 70% of the total debt. The concept is that if they struggled to pay first, with a long installment, how will they do now? Will they go to the bank to ask for the loan to pay? And then I want to see the banks granting the loan. Moreover, it remains the exercise in order never to forget to reward Equitalia for its irreplaceable service to the coffers of the State thanks to the citizens taken by the throat. The possibility of access to interest-rate loans for more difficult debtors has not even been envisaged. I remind you that these are mostly entrepreneurs who found themselves close in the grip of Equitalia during one of the hardest periods of economic crisis that this country has ever gone through. And there are still economic problems in our system, in our economy. We have not left the crisis behind and now the economy gallops. I don't think so. And they are entrepreneurs who have not paid not to escape taxes, but because they were really desperate and unable to sell their products. But what will the government tell that part of taxpayers who have already paid, perhaps even with innumerable sacrifices, not having been for them, at least, a form of compensation? Of course, this measure does not bring immediate money into the coffers of a state as an expansive economic maneuver to deficits. And I could also be told that expansive maneuvers are normally in deficit. Yes, it is true, but not with the ax of a Europe clearly complacent with a government playing its game and which can be allowed to postpone the balance of the budget. Then, in case, we'll make sure we have maybe a better government that will fix the accounts. Finally, I would like to make one last step on the reception arrangements. How is it possible for the Government to persist in its absurd policy of unconditional reception in order to do the interests of the few who are enriched with this business? More than 5,000 municipalities out of 8,100 do not adhere to the reception system and the Government has been forced to put tips in the measure under consideration in order to find a solution to the relocation of migrants. And it not only offers a lot to migrants, but also allows those municipalities to open up financial spaces. Surely many municipalities will yield because the policies to the cuts made by this government have dried them up of many resources. But I wonder if it would not have been more intelligent to foresee financial spaces for the municipalities in poor conditions or affected by situations of hydrogeological failure? We already know that all these questions will not be answered, but we will simply say that this is the way forward. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we had little time to examine the measure on the agenda and we have the impression that the new regime has already taken place and that the President-in-Office of the Council has dispensed his Christmas gifts. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u234	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u235	Mr President, what about this decree-law? Only this morning did we vote for the first time a real decree-law, determined by reasons of necessity and urgency. This afternoon, however, we are in this House examining a decree-law that of necessity and urgency has nothing, rather complicates tax issues and the relationship between taxpayers and tax, because it creates immense disparities. It is a set of rules that try to plug some holes, but create others, as often happens with the decree-laws and with the bills presented by this Government. First of all there is the fake abolition of Equitalia. From the words of the Government it seemed that the abolition of Equitalia, which in the citizen's imagination was now unbearable: this organ had become the agent not of collection, but of blackmail and stealing. And I use just the word "steal" because some sanctions are really exaggerated. And then you arrange the breaking of the folders, but do not change the next rules and, therefore, create an disparity with those who have paid so far. Don't make a distinction between them who have a real difficulty paying and those who are the neighborhood smarties. But maybe you're used to dating them. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. And you don't? BOTTICS (M5S). I don't. Today are the words of Alfano who defends Governor De Luca in the tones used and that is a sly neighborhood. I was talking to you about the wrecking of the folders. An organic work had to be done on Equitalia. The report by the International Monetary Fund and the OECD comes from a question that showed that there were so many roles involved: there was talk of 1,000 billion, when in reality there were many fewer, about 50 billion. Then there's something that doesn't work in the system, and you can't just change the name, but the whole system. We tried to do so in the Finance Committee, but this decree-law blocked us. Also, reopen the terms for voluntary disclosure that - let us remember - is another disguised pardon for those who in recent years have brought money abroad. It is useless for you to say that capital will come back from abroad and sanctions will be paid, because it is false. When an evader brings back the money - let's say he brought it in 2003 or 2002 - because of the voluntary, the Agency will no longer be able to verify where that revenue comes from; it will only be able to do so on the part of the maturity of that money. Therefore, taxes will be paid not on the escape, but only on the maturation. At least be clear, because the citizens expect just that: they expect clarity and legal certainty, and not those marks that are included in every decree-law or budget law. How can we fail to understand that you need this tax decree for the constitutional referendum? The decree-law does not expire now. We had plenty of time to analyze it and do an organic job. What I'm showing you is the material of the tax decree, but in the Finance and Budget Committees we had six and a half hours to discuss it. We were not even allowed to do the general discussion here because the question of trust was immediately raised. And we also encountered difficulties in convening the Assembly tomorrow morning, because someone already wanted to escape to the territory to make that electoral campaign we often hear about, with millions of money coming to the territory starting from Massa Carrara, or even in Campania with the railways. And this decree-law is proof of that. We now have a government and a majority that insist on moving forward when the people need more. The Italian people need not this decree, but organic reforms on the tax-paying relationship; they do not need a constitutional reform that will not bring any benefit to the real economy, as they did not need those decrees in favor of the banks. I would like to recall the decree Banca Italia and IMU, a brand for banks and one for the IMU. You tried somehow to do something. Our vote is strongly against. We are really tired of working in this Parliament, in this Upper House which is often used by the Government for its meetings. It is a few days ago the meeting of the Government at the Koch Hall of the Senate to make the commercial at the "yes". And I know that President Grasso was not aware of this, but I invite the Members themselves to pay more attention, because this Upper House still exists and has the right and all the honor that he has enjoyed so far and that we, as ordinary citizens, have tried to bring. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u236	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u237	Mr President, on the completion of the paradoxes of parliamentary procedures that are contained in the decree-law we have already heard and - I must say - we have also seen expressions, not consenting, but certainly understanding by the representatives of the majority. This decree-law would still have one month to be converted into law and is converted today: why? Anyone with a minimum of parliamentary experience and knowledge of the ways in which this government operates can imagine it. We have witnessed in recent years the immediate change of laws just passed in successive laws. It is not excluded that this decree, finally adopted tomorrow with the vote of confidence, can also be amended during the debate on the law of stability. And then we saw the division of the prebende between this decree-law and the law of stability, with a dead line, an important line of separation, which is that of the vote on the referendum. A little 'ironizing, you could say that we returned to the time when, in some big cities of Italy, they were campaigning with shoes, giving the first shoe before the vote and the second after the vote. Today the government reminds us of those times: before the vote it gives a decree-law and half a law of stability; after the vote it will give the rest, that is the other half a law of stability and, if possible, if we do not vote as we hope to vote, it changes it as well and cuts a little 'benefits'. 18.21 (Follow-up). We, on the other hand, relied heavily on the tax decree to deal with points very dear to us and absolutely congenial: the first was the so-called dismantling - it is an absolutely deplorable term - of the folders; the second was the abolition of Equitalia; the third was a reopening of the times of the voluntary return of capital, with the criminal consequences, which bring money into the coffers of the State. These three topics have been addressed by the Government, but how? In an absolutely sloppy way - let me say this - because the abolition of Equitalia is only a manifest norm. All powers have been transferred to the Revenue Agency and perhaps, during the next Stability Act, an adjustment of this transfer will still be invented. But the heart of the problem was not affected: in the negative feeling of the Italians, Equitalia had to be abolished not because it is called Equitalia - it is a thing between Italy and the equestrian activities - but because it had to be eliminated its way of operating and it had to be reduced the sanctions, the interests, the debitoriali and the modalities of execution, that privilege the collections by Equitalia on mortgages, the forced procedures, on everything that is instrument of harassment against the citizens. On the other hand, the charts are broken, in the sense that only the capital lot can be paid, but the conditions are maintained so that from here to a few years the pile of pagato, due to the excess of sanctions, interests and deeds, can be recovered and the same measure must be done; and they recover with all the negativity that in the course of work are recorded about the discomfort of the taxpayers and their absolute concern, in a country that continues to have the highest tax pressure. Too bad that the President-in-Office of the Council noticed this only this morning: he made a statement at the school of the Financial Guard saying that it is intolerable that our country has the highest tax burden in Europe. But is he in the election campaign, like someone who has never set foot in Parliament - that is true - or has been President of the Council for three years? And this consideration has never been given? Above all nothing has ever done so to make such a consideration after three years of his government. We had thought that this decree-law could be an opportunity to have a peaceful debate on the three points. And, instead, the Government has entered into the provision, both in the original text of the decree-law that during discussion in the House, another series of issues that once again make it absolutely unconstitutional because of the unevenness of matter and even configure electoral exchanges with parts of its own party (see the case Campania) or with groups of population, which arise because then this Government is not even able to do the good things it might want to do (let's give him the benefit of good will). It organises a bureaucratic simplification that is, instead, a complication, so much so that all professional orders that must provide VAT returns and all the obligations provided for in the decree-law are on the brink of war and they clearly say that there will be a huge increase in costs for both professionals and businesses. Customs freight forwarders are on the brink of war, who have seen themselves changing the rules on Intrastat and denounce that in the change of rules there is a resounding tax evasion of intra-Community VAT. I don't know if it's bad will or being clumsy. Of course, all these measures continue to arouse the reaction of those involved. Then there are measures for change. The government and the majority, especially the great majority of the left who has its unassailable principles, have always told us that they would never make pardons. Apart from the fact that this is a pardon: even if it does not affect the quantum of capital, it certainly creates a deep disparity between those who have paid even with a minimum of interest and those who tomorrow will pay without a single cent of interest. But let's forget it, and we might as well agree on that. However, article 5-a, introduced to the House, allows pardon only to large oil companies. My colleagues are well aware of the relationship between the Government and the oil companies. They know that it is enough to scroll through - if ever they should be public - the lists of participants in the Democratic Party's financing dinners to know who the wealthy depositaries of the 30,000 euros are in order to participate. It happens: a resounding pardon emerges (in the technical sense of the word) for the big oil companies, which can close their disputes with the tax and pay 20% of the capital. And why is this happening only with regard to some and a sector and not with regard to those citizens who have not paid for reasons of necessity, for reasons due to their personal economic status? And in the latter cases it was not an escape, but a non-payment by state of necessity. Of course, someone will certainly use scraping, because it's one thing to find the money to pay 40 and it's one thing to find them to pay 10; this is normally the difference, on the debitory folders, between the capital and all the accumulation of sanctions, interests and deeds. But we - I repeat - would have preferred and hoped to avoid the use of the vote of confidence, which we certainly did not cause. We have tabled ten amendments in the Commission, Mr President, and something more has been tabled by the other opposition forces. The debate could have taken place peacefully both in the Commission and in the Chamber and could have led to a weighted vote on an important part of the decree-law under consideration, if there had not been the addition of the Chamber - I repeat - and if the measure had focused on the purely fiscal aspect, for which we imagined it had been born (signs, return of capital and abolition of Equitalia). But everything has been turned upside down; once again everything has been conditioned and bent on the government's now Machiavellian strategies to try to get a minimum of consensus in the referendum. But I think that the Italians will be very wise to reject a proposal to amend the Constitution that could not be imagined worse than this one. Then all this naturally leads us to vote against. We would have liked, in a peaceful debate, to agree with the Government on a number of points. But we are prevented from doing so, despite some good declarations of intent, and we know that good intentions are paved with the way to hell. The Premier occasionally says he wants to cooperate with the opposition, to take certain measures. In this case it was once again denied by the facts, and we are convinced that it will be denied, by the facts and the ballot boxes, on December 4th.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u238	We greet a delegation of students from the parliamentary law course of the Department of Law of the Free University of Studies Maria SS. Assunta (LUMSA) of Rome, who is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u239	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u240	Mr President, we are very impressed that, at last, we are dealing with a measure dealing with taxation. Parliament has never, in recent months and years, dealt with the tax system: there has never been a change. Since the tax system is absolutely plastered, seasoned, robust, verified, efficient and able to counter any tax evasion, to be fair to the citizen and to produce positive effects for public finance, the changes have always been very few and always very measured and only today we have a full rewriting of this topic. Of course, I am joking, because if there is one thing that our Parliament produces, it is precisely the tax rules. There is a continuous change in the quality of taxes and their size and now there is also a continuous change in the bodies responsible for their collection. This creates some problem of keeping and a sort of surreptitious mode, through which a deregulation of the matter is managed, which is the result not of the absence of norms, but of the continuous change of the norms that regulate that matter. The result of this story is known, it is published systematically, it is called in a punctual way by all the bodies that deal with public finance and the management of the economy and it is the great tax evasion. It is the result of three elements: the uncertainty of the law in tax matters, the iniquity of the tax system and, above all, the certainty of tax forgiveness. These three elements constitute the very reason why we have the dimension of tax evasion that every government and every political force has always claimed to want to fight. We are not convinced of this measure because it introduces a kind of strange programmatic rule, in which it is said that Equitalia no longer exists, but the instrumental body that will replace it in the collection activity will exist in about seven months, from the first of July. In the meantime it organizes this transfer of skills that appears to be one of the many movers that we are able to promote to create confusion. Mr President, I do not know if you have ever changed your home, if you have ever handled a move, if you have ever filled the boxes, then emptied the boxes or left the boxes full without ever emptying them over time, even if you have changed the house. Well, the public administration is like this: here we move from one person to another of competences and functions that must instead be exercised on time, because, by chance, that is the institution that has to provide the financial supply to hold the budget of the State. We make a move in progress, we do not even know if we have called the workers, we have no idea who will do it and when it will begin to empty the furniture and fill the boxes, at a time when - look carefully - the economic condition and the health of the coffers of the State is not among the best, but, indeed, it is a situation of obvious crisis and difficulty. We cannot therefore introduce an additional element of difficulty at this stage. I don't know what's gonna happen, but I can imagine: it's gonna happen exactly what's always happened when we promoted these trials. The only thing that will work, Mr President, is the system of condones with respect to the obligation to pay taxes that someone has not observed. The second thing that will happen, Mr President, is that those who have paid, those who have done their full job as taxpayers, will of course be tempted to wait for the next move to enjoy the benefits of further pardon in relation to the fulfilment of tax obligations. I say this to Parliament before I tell the government, and I say it to ourselves: we must stop playing with tax rules all the time. We must have clear ideas on what this function is and how it should be exercised. We must not give the uncertainty of the law that we have given up to now and which has benefited the privileges and privileged, but we must finally protect the great taxpayers, who - be careful - are the small taxpayers, they are the employees, those who have the paycheck under control, those who do their duty as self-employed workers, systematically responding to the laws governing the contribution to the state coffers. We are talking about honesty: honest people are punctually turbulent by this way of behaving of Parliament and of governments. It's not okay anymore we have said it and we repeat it: the only ones who enjoy it are the privileged ones who until now have had privileges. We must think that legal certainty, especially in tax matters, is the very reason for the condition of respect for the citizen and his rights, within the framework of his duties. Violating this principle means violating the Constitution, that is, the citizen's duty-right to contribute to the development of his own national community, as enshrined in the fundamental part of our Constitutional Charter. We must end this attitude which, unfortunately, is superficial and does not even help the good governments and political actions that this country needs to emerge from the crisis. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u241	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u242	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are called to the sixty-fourth vote of confidence in just over a thousand days, a real negative record of this Government. The decree-law in question is in complete contrast to Article 77 of the Constitution, which provides for this instrument the indispensable requirements of extraordinaryness, necessity and urgency, requirements that do not comply with this provision. Also, the vote of confidence on what is it? Certainly not on the much-proclaimed revolution of the tax system and tax collection. Unfortunately, it is only yet another proof of the arrogance of Palazzo Chigi, which repeatedly tramples on Parliament's prerogatives to place legislative power in the hands of the President-in-Office of the Council. A one man show that makes electoral propaganda h24 presenting commercials whose contents are, however, always very different from the acts submitted to the Chambers for the single acquaintance. In addition to form, it is in the content that the greatest contradictions are manifested, beginning with the suppression of Equitalia. This is only the last mockery of the Italians, as already done with the proclamations about Province and Senate. The abolition conceals only a simple transformation from a society to public participation to a public economic entity, which is the responsibility of the Presidency of the Council. Here, therefore, is the real objective: to give the Premier the power to control this sector as well. A real tax collection reform had been launched by the Berlusconi Government in 2005 but the left, with President Prodi, has upset what good had been done, creating that monster of Equitalia that has done so much damage to the Italians. It is not by changing the name that the problems of our fellow citizens are solved. Even today, this new agency has much more pervasive powers that allow it access to INPS databases. We've also heard only lies about the destruction of the debitory folders. In fact, it is only possible to postpone the payment in up to five instalments by 2018. This measure is designed exclusively to make cash to the benefit of the evaders and, as always, to the detriment of honest taxpayers but in difficulty. Forza Italia, on the contrary, presented a bill that provides for a staggering of tax debts through a return plan. The proposal takes account of the interests of Italians, although it can also satisfy budgetary interests. Moreover, instead of simplifying, additional requirements are added to companies, such as the quarterly declaration of all invoices received and issued, as if the 269 hours of average expenses by our companies were not sufficient to fulfil the bureaucratic obligations, with a cost for the same companies equal to 30 billion that brings our country to 44th place in the annual ranking on the competitiveness drawn up by the World Economic Forum. Finally, after making cash on the shoulders of the Italians it is in the final articles that Palazzo Chigi gives the best of himself by providing a series of rain donations to the usual friends of friends: from financing to Ferrovie dello Stato for investments in Campania and Molisani transports, to the rules that grant funds to municipalities to take in with the reception of migrants, finally to tax credit for cinema. The decree-law in question has the same nature as the sirens faced by Ulysses in the poem "Odyssey." In fact, just like those mythological creatures that bland the sailors and then attack them mercilessly, with this measure the Government tries to bland the Italians with an effective title, in order to conceal the monstrosities, if not even the dangers, contained within it. But the Italians are now immune to the rhetoric of Florence and will prove it on December 4th. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u243	Mr President, this measure has some small light and many shadows (even some chasms of shadow). Firstly, scrapping is, in itself, a positive thing because it allows the State to cash quickly and helps the regularization of insolvencies. However, there is a first problem, because how many are actually the evaders, arsonists or manslaughter, and the distracted and how many are the incapients who cannot pay? Today Equitalia allows the installment of debitory folders in 72 monthly installments, i.e. six years. The measure under consideration is expected to do everything in one and a half years: by 18 March 2018. Such prediction can be an advantage for the rich, the distracted and the repented in good condition, but not for those in real crisis. In fact, those who are in real crisis and who are unable to meet the six-year deadline, certainly cannot pay off the debt in a year and a half. It's way too simple. If we had not examined the measure so quickly and had discussed it properly, I would have tabled an amendment (which was prevented from me, as was the case with all my fellow Members) with the proposal - a compromise - to move from six to four years. This would have been a relief for the state and would have given more breath to the incompetent. In the same way, it could have been thought of the definition of two bands, for one the term of 18 March 2018 and for the other a installment in four years, with different levels of discount and facilitations (if you pay immediately I will make some sense to you, while if you respond later I foresee a lighter measure). There has been a lot of talk about moving between Equitalia and the Revenue Agency, so that's all I'm saying. Senator Uras is concerned about honesty, which is less and less here and you no longer know where to look for it. Let me turn to another theme. I have read Article 4 of the measure and I have had an acute gastritis, because I am for simplification, but the real one. The provision amending Article 21 of Decree-Law No 78 of 31 May 2010 states that taxable persons shall transmit electronically to the Agency the data of all invoices issued in the reference quarter, and of those received and recorded, within the last day of the second month following each quarter. From reading this article I assume that we have four new requirements. Before that, the rate was not expected to be four times a year, and now all invoices must be issued and received every quarter. Not content, four other requirements were added to the next article. Now the refund of VAT is sent once a year, while the measure in question requires a frequency of four times a year. In fact, we have eight new requirements per year (quarterly expenditure meter and quarterly VAT reporting). So much for simplification! So much for the sodium baking soda, that's something to take! Then, out of curiosity, I contacted some accountants and asked how much this fulfillment comes to cost extra. I was told that for each VAT number you range from a minimum of 480-500 euros to 1,000 euros more. This means that virtually in order to have more data, the Revenue Agency makes public employment of individuals, at a cost, because this has a cost that falls on businesses and VAT consignments; and if it does not fall on businesses and VAT consignments it means that accountants will have to work for free. In fact, accountants are so angry. Some might think it's an extra job, so they earn more and should be happy. I would like to give an example: if anyone today comes to mind that all rentals must be notified by notaries, notaries might even be happy because it is a reason for extra income. In this case, however, the absurdity is that accountants, who in theory could gain more, go to protest. The question then is why? The explanation I gave myself is that accountants are so angry because they know that this increase will make businesses disappear; customers can't pay more, so they just disappear. This is a way to destroy self-employment, the small enterprise, that is, everything that does concrete work, good Italy, the really good one: the one that does not work on useless bureaucracy, the one that is not found without merits in the public, without competition, with an extravagant salary. What, on the contrary, is accustomed to conquering things day by day, is further vexed. You might think that there will certainly be software to extrapolate data, perhaps a public software that will not cost you. Public software may be there, maybe free, but it won't work or work badly, and if you have to take the data and insert it by hand, this will not be a simplification or a speeding-up, but an extra cost, an increase. Then, you will be purchased a private software that will cost you. It reminds me so much of what has happened for the competent doctors, for Annex 3B: the epidemiological detection data for ASL are extracted and entrusted to free professionals who do the work for free. This is a way to give the public free work done by private individuals. I say, then, a very simple thing: the extrapolation of data from accounting must be automatic and free, if you are going to do so. That is the goal to be achieved. I would also add that we have included eight requirements, eight additional deadlines. Every year a company has hundreds of different deadlines, so sometimes it is impossible not to forget them, and as a result do not incur any infringement or litigation: the one for the label, the one for the waste; hundreds of deadlines. My dream would be a unique annual deadline: to incorporate more requirements into a single deadline. I find this to be absurd because we cannot live on deadlines; we cannot spend 50% of the time on the tax system. This is not a tax, it is just a corvée, a constraint: all passive and active purchase and sale invoices. This process reminded me of the absurd reporting of the "Tirendiaccount" of the 5 Stars, in which one was to present all the receipts; for what then? Really futile all of this. All the more so since the power to carry out the controls the Revenue Agency has it. Why, then, can't you get up, random, and do the checks you think on the basis of other criteria? Since when does doing physical activity, getting out of the chair and moving become a counter-indication to health? My lords, the revenue agency, the controllers, get up from the golden chair; you are not attacked with the attack! But I see that the government does not listen because we know very well that nothing must be done. I wanted it to remain in the acts that this is not simplification, what we are asking for and which I have always asked for. Real simplification must be done differently and it must not be for the private sector. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u244	Mr President, this tax decree brings together goats and cabbages, as always under the aegis of the utmost urgency or, if you prefer, the usual haste that, as always, brings only damage to the country and favours, in a way that is not too veiled, clientelism and perhaps even the vote of exchange. How can we fail to note, Mr President, that within the same measure, there are subjects too different from each other to be put together and that they have absolutely nothing as a matter of urgency, except the Premier's haste to hand out tips to get a few more votes in the referendum, starting with the false hopes of the announced closure of Equitalia, which actually changes its name only, and instead strengthens the instruments of detection and collection, with good peace of small and medium-sized enterprises? What does the Hippocrates mission have to do with the IRS? Article 9, in fact, lays down measures for the financing of this new genius in Libya, which makes Italy the only country to allocate regular troops in the country, in defense of a military hospital created to cure the militiamen of Misrata, heavily suspected of feeding the trafficking of human beings from Libya and beyond. It is good to remind those present and citizens at home that this history of the hospital in Misrata has become obsolete in the meantime: Al Sarraj does not hold the power that our Foreign and Defence Ministers say he has in Italy. The situation in Libya has changed rapidly, further undermining the "loan" of this eternal "designed premier" and exposing us to retaliations that will sooner or later test our men in Libya. It should be remembered that the Zintan militias, among the most powerful in the country, at the end of October have already called us neo-colonial invaders and that sooner or later they will catalyze other groups to make us war. Why spend 17 million just on 2016 to risk retaliation? Our Foreign Minister will certainly be aware that Tripoli itself is not under the control of Al Sarraj and that the situation turns in favour of the Parliament of Tobruk and Haftar that, once conquered the oil terminals of Ras Lanouf, has mortgaged the control of Libya, at least for the moment, to the detriment of the shaky Al Sarraj. I would like to stress that the American election campaign is over and that it is no longer necessary to show the world that the US of Clinton and Obama and the allies want to fight a surrogate of ISIS, since in other places, for example in Aleppo, they support subjects equal if not worse than those who are fighting in Libya, with good peace of coherence. Even more contradictory is the fact that we support another Islamic militia, that of Misrata, which as far as heinous practices is concerned, has nothing to envy to the most famous cousins of ISIS, who also fights in Sirte. Of course, we should admit that we have focused on the wrong horse, but is it convenient to persevere in the construction of a military hospital, without even providing medical support systems for the Libyan population, exhausted by years of chaos for which Italy is also responsible? Do we necessarily have to put our forces at risk on a mission in which, I repeat, the only ones who have deployed regular troops are us? We are certainly willing to listen to the Foreign Minister's strategies in this House - we are doing this with Renzi, let alone - but frankly we are also funding them, putting the lives of our brave soldiers and doctors at risk is really too much. We make you a proposal: these 17 million used to secure school buildings and in exchange for Christmas we give you a nice Risiko, so you can play war without harming Italy and Libya. Let's move on: Article 10 finances investments for the State Railways. Question: was this decree-law called tax, the right one to finance a need certainly felt, but not unpredictable? Article 11 contains urgent measures for regional transport, which do not cover all regions, but only Campania with 600 million and Molise with 90 million. It should be emphasized that there is a close relationship between the De Luca of the 15 November meeting with the three hundred mayors, in which he illustrates a rain of millions from the government and to which to respond with a mass vote for the yes to the referendum, and the urgent need that we are discussing today. We, frankly, see only the need to pick up votes in the referendum, definitely fidelizing "who clientelism knows how to do it as Christ commands": and they are not my words. So here we are at the dramatic unmasking of the vote of exchange: the government settles six hundred million debts and De Luca mobilizes the mayors to obtain votes for the referendum: clearer than that? With regard to the last article, the 15th, Mr President, in this case too, it is unusual for a tax decree, which has been discussed in haste and fury, to deal with these issues. Then why did you call it a tax decree? You could have called it the law of stability, at least it would have been more consistent. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u245	He's enlisted to speak Senator Susta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u246	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Mr Vice-Minister, this decree-law deserves the support of the Democratic Party Group and therefore the confidence of the Government that has proposed it. In a country where, as we have confirmed this afternoon, "benaltrism" is the prevailing leit motif to counter any kind of decision, this decree-law is a concrete measure, both for the state and for the citizen. It contributes significantly to the public finance maneuver 2017-2019, to which it is connected, and provides for greater revenues, also considered the repositioning of voluntary disclosure, for about 16 billion euros in the three-year period. These increased revenues are the result of the activation of new actions aimed at improving the relationship between tax and taxpayer, through a new role assigned to the tax administration. Modulate tax behaviour in a more flexible way depending on whether it is taxpayers' faults or their "dollar" or "fraudulent" intentions; use the tools of modern communication (SMS and JEP) to signal criticalities to taxpayers and invite them to explain unclear situations; that is, to promote a tax compliance of taxpayers instead of bureaucratic and vexatory approach that we have all known, is a step forward in achieving the objectives contained in the tax delegation and that they will find further confirmation and discipline in the reform of the tax process and in the most widespread use of electronic tools. It is in this context that the abolition of Equitalia, the so-called "breakdown of folders," the rules on greater simplification, the introduction of the quarterly communication, aimed at overcoming the "tax gap VAT" (the relationship between potential and effective taxation that in our country is very reduced compared to the rest of Europe) that is compensated by the abolition of the reporting obligation of the list suppliers and customers, the so-called spend meter, and other minor obligations, which make completely unjustified and unmotivated criticism, also of the world of professions, towards this measure. Almost always these hide, as we have already seen at the time of the introduction of the telematic system, a sort of idiosyncrasia towards the telematic systems, when instead, perhaps, with a click it is easier to solve the problems than making controversy. In a nutshell, the government's "change of direction" strategy is being implemented, which does not eliminate collection, of course. But where is there no collection? It is said that it does not eliminate sanctions. But where are there no sanctions for those who escape and for those who escape? But the measure brings everything back to the essential and fundamental social contract that binds the citizen to the state. A state that punishes those who escape and those who elude, but who act with prudence, willingness and tolerance towards those who err without malice or who are in momentary economic difficulties but is able to fulfill their commitments, perhaps asking for delays. In part, rules of this kind from the point of view of their cultural presupposition already belong to our legislation. The problem is gradually moving towards greater simplification and a better approach between citizens and taxpayers. Therefore, do not condone but take action to rebuild a trust relationship, which has long been compromised and which must be taken up in the interests of greater social cohesion. Without going into the details of further aspects, also mentioned today, of this tax decree, these are the fundamental reasons and reasons that make it urgent, not in the literal sense of the term, also wanted by the Constitution, but urgent in relation to the dynamics of our social context; in any case respectful of the constitutional dictation, but let us not limit ourselves to the formal aspects. There is a greater urgency, which is what justifies us in saying yes to this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u247	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u248	Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the precious time of my colleagues, yours and the Government, to try to deepen some of the technical aspects of this text, and then to reserve myself in tomorrow morning's explanation of vote for the evaluations which I see already being carried out here by some of my colleagues on a more political level. In fact, as it is commonly said that the devil hides himself in detail, so in the technicalities and in the many details of the decree-law in question, there is a devil who is always in action in our country; that is, what, especially in the activity and action of this Government, leads to conceal under lying new instruments of fiscal pressure. It is indeed an omnibus decree-law and it is certainly right that the colleague who first focused her attention on Libya and foreign policy, because in the so-called tax decree-law there is also this. Behind the horse of Troy of Equitalia and its alleged and untrue abolition there are many initiatives that the Government needed to include in a measure that - correct me if I am wrong, Mr President - overall, between the reading of the House and that of the Senate, I believe has kept Parliament engaged for thirty-one days. Is it a measure that identifies in one's heart the value of that friendly tax that we chase in many? I don't think so. Other than tax compliance, colleague Susta. It is not for anyone, but in particular in this decree-law the Friend tax is the guest of stone: they all evoke it, but it is not there. On the other hand, there is for VAT matches, for professionals, but also for all taxpayers an increase in procedures that Senator Fucksia has previously even described in their economic value, indicating how much it will cost these people to bear additional expenses and charges in order to be able to stay in touch with the tax authorities at least. I don't care about taxing, man. We are therefore once again to propaganda; a propaganda that, in order to remain at the side of the text on Equitalia, which is emphatically announced as abolished, is instead functional and make the relationship between tax and citizens more stringent. Before tax compliance, I would simply like to see that taxpayer code respected, which we have all committed ourselves to enforcing laws that do not harm taxpayers, in fact it never happens. Even the scraping of the folders actually hides within a comfortable condiment and consists of a fake delay, which will only be for those who already have the money to be able to regularize their position with the tax through Equitalia. In fact, those who did not have that money, certainly not because of his fault but because of a very serious crisis that fell on our small businesses, on the self-employed and on the families, until yesterday could enjoy a delay in payment, a installment in payments to Equitalia that reached over six years, thanks to a powerful and shared intervention of Parliament that forced the Government to accept this type of approach, given the economic situation of our citizens, but all this you delete it suddenly. So we are not struggling with a good tax decree: we are struggling with an omnibus decree-law, which uses the excuse of the tax decree to do other things, but above all to bring not only further increases but further pains to those taxpayers who will find out very soon what is hidden within this tax decree. For example, that text which should prevent the use of taxpayers' data for purposes other than statutory ones is not written, whereas instead we should have had a great deal to care what will determine the use of databases and the crossing of all data and information in this great moloch that today becomes the absorption by the Agency of revenue also of the agency of the collection agency Equitalia. Other more controversial aspects concern: the recovery of excise duties in the event of bankruptcy, because we are able to charge taxes even to companies that have already failed. In addition, there is the question of the audience of the persons who can make use of the breakdown of the folders, for example providing for a maximum of twelve quarterly installments to make the payment (it was one of the proposals that from more groups saliva); the fact that the breaking of the folders is not valid if the payment takes place for three installments even not consecutive (today instead it is limited to a single installment); the fact that the failure to pay a installment does not produce the forfeiture if the debtor demonstrates economic difficulty; finally, the fact that the interruptive effects of the non-payment takes place from the date of submission of the application relating to roles or folders. Those that I have listed are just some of the technicalities that, since they have not been accepted by the majority and by the Government no changes, make this decree-law a further fiscal grip, a recovery of resources that someone has called positive, but that instead I define largely negative. We are giving, in fact, through this tax decree, cover even part of the budget law, and we do so by including even the voice of foreclosures to Italian citizens and taxpayers in the value estimated by the General Accounting of the State in 500 million. We use 600 million for some of the initiatives that have the vague electoral flavor at this stage by the Government, giving it the cover of the foreclosures that will be done to the Italians who up to now have been able to count on a installment and that will no longer be able to do so tomorrow. I conclude by recalling that that obsessive subject of control even of the withdrawal of his money - he said it well before me and better than I the Senator Tremonti - puts us in front of a great reflection. In the days of the most dramatic banking crisis in our country's history, we are not at all concerned by that constitutional dictation that imposes the protection of savings, constitutionally guaranteed value in our country. As we learn from the government's tax decree, we are very, very concerned by the discipline of saving and how we must force Italians to use their money; whether they can or cannot withdraw it; whether they can use it in the freedom of their property or not. Here, this is your Constitution upside down: the protection of savings does not, but the control of savings does. This leads us to define this tax decree as yet another missed opportunity to really go towards that friendly tax that perhaps we will never see in this country. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u249	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u250	Mr President, we are yet another confidence on the part of the Government. I believe that it would be necessary for us to be complacent to number them from time to time in order to have a general picture of the number. Mr President, the fact that the tax issue has a central role in the economic life of all the advanced countries, and in particular in Italy, is known to all. The government, with the decree-law that we are examining, tries to put order on the entire sector. This, unfortunately, does not happen in the direction that would be desirable, that is to say by lowering taxes on productive activities and income from work and by hitting with determination the annuities and the large pockets of evasion and avoidance; it happens through a series of demagogic measures and with an electoral taste: stands out among all, the boasted abolition of Equitalia. In the run-up to the referendum, we want to believe that the monster hated by entire categories, the body that has been presented as the cause of all national misfortunes, will be shot down. In reality, according to a custom in the country of Manzoni's cries, we are preparing to change not the thing, but only its name. Not Equitalia, but the plates of the palaces where Equitalia is located. The new institution will have to comply with the same rules as before, it will have to apply the same percentages in collection charges and interest on late payments. Unchanged, of course, will remain the leadership. The only ones to be penalized by the change will probably be the employees, pointed out as scapegoats for having applied rules not established by them. Equally negative is the rule on the so-called voluntary disclosure, thanks to which, with the payment of a small tax, those who hold cash abroad will be able to return it to their homeland. Behind the smokescreen, which has become habitual, there is yet another squalid sanatoria. Once again, the Italian State is preparing to condone, with a pat on the shoulder, those who have accumulated fortunes escaping the tax, or, even worse, dedicating themselves to criminal activities: think a little, the State itself will wash the dirty money! All this while young artisans or those who try to start a small business will not have any facilitation. For example, the costs of starting a new business for those with limited or insufficient capital are always too burdensome and can, at best, reach up to 15,000-20,000 euros. Finally, I would like to remind you of the rule by which EUR 600 million is allocated for the reception of refugees. This is a classic palliative intervention, at a time when reception centres are overcrowded, migrants find themselves living in conditions of degradation destined to favor, in the medium term, the enlistment in criminal associations and while their relocation to more suitable places (in Italy, abroad and especially in the countries of origin) is not even considered. In short, money is spent without the preparation of rules, which would be absolutely necessary. I could give other examples, but that would be superfluous. The crux of the matter seems to me quite clear: this decree-law will perhaps help the President of the Council to collect a few thousand more votes in the referendum on 4 December, certainly not help Italy to get out of its dramatic crisis. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Milo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u251	Mr President, I will be very brief, although I am aware that - with all due respect to my fellow Members here - I am speaking to a House that has become deaf, absent and, in most cases, addicted. We are here to discuss a tax decree that has only one objective: to cash for the law of stability. It could be done differently. Unlike what many of my colleagues say, who claim that the measure has an electoral spirit, I think that, if the government does these interventions in electoral terms, electoral politics includes very little, especially because it has enticed many Italian citizens who, like me, were anxiously waiting for this decree-law; I think of those many Italian citizens who wanted to settle with the tax authorities of our country. I will not mention, Mr President, what many Members have already said before me: about Equitalia, about what will be done about Equitalia and about everything that is accessory, even if of great substance. I will just say that, with the strengthening of the collection (as stated in Article 3), we also set up a tax police regime in our country. Why do I say that? Because in paragraph 1 of Article 3 it is said: As from 1 January 2017, the Revenue Agency may use the databases and information to which it is authorised to access on the basis of specific legal provisions, including for the purposes of the performance of the duties relating to collection of revenue. That also says a lot about this new Revenue-Risk Agency, because this agency should do only what it has to do for its functions. With regard to what all honest citizens and all those who wanted to be in line with the tax system, i.e. the dismantling of records, alas, I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that if this Government had brought this decree-law to Parliament on 6 December, it would probably have done better and would probably have taken away the good faith of so many citizens; instead, stupidly, it converts it today, letting them understand that they will not be able to solve their problems of an economic nature and restore personal positions compared to the tax system. I would therefore banish this instrumental and electoral aspect, because of the two, the one: either the government does not know how to pursue an electoral consensus or has mistaken. You don't run from here. As far as the substance is concerned, I recommend to my Group, which I do not yet know how it will be expressed tomorrow, in relation to this decree-law: we find ourselves with a provision in which the Chamber has been included article 5-a, with which the oilmen, tobacco producers and the producers of alcohol are granted a pardon (because it is a nice and good pardon), making them pay only 20% of the due, also making a quite serious mistake here. In fact, in point (b) of paragraph 1 of Article 5-a, it is said that the taxable person is entitled to terminate the tax claim by making the payment, to be made within sixty days of the date of conclusion of the transaction, of an amount of at least 20%. This will certainly put the many regional directors of the Customs and Monopolies Agency in difficulty, because no regional director will be able to make a transaction to charge 25% to someone, since then we will wonder why the director, we put, of Campania has charged 25% while that of Molise has charged only 20%. We have to charge 20% or 30% of these gentlemen. But, beyond this aspect, which is purely technical but also of substance, these gentlemen are expected to have a transaction and a seven-year installment and we are talking about people who have cash liquidity, they have it in cash. Let's see what happens to so many Italian citizens: let's take the example of an employee who earns 1,200 per month, like the vast majority of the country, who has to pay 5,000 euros of debit cards. In thirty-six months he should pay 100 euros per month, while splitting the amount into five installments, he will have to pay 500 euros per installment. As I have already said in the Commission to Deputy Minister Casero, since in the tables of the decree-law under consideration there are approximately 4.4 billion euros of revenues for 2017, of which 2 billion euros only from the scraping of folders and the other 2,2 billion from the voluntary disclosure, it has happened that widening the audience of the interested ones extending the scraping to the folders of 2016 - the decree-law was born for the scraping of debitorial folders from 2000 to 2015 - the Ministry of the economy and the finances has estimated in 1.1 billion euros the revenues only for 2016. So there wasn't the difficulty of covering for installments, as the government says, because we're gonna get even more. The real problem, illustrious President, is that the revenue of the decree-law does not go to the Fund for the fight against evasion, but only goes to cover the expenses that we authorize with this same decree-law and to finance the budget law, contrary to Article 10 of the new accounting law. There is therefore no substance in the intervention: that is why it is stupid, because it could have been done otherwise. I heard someone talking about funding for Campania: I can add a reference to financing for the Ferrovie dello Stato or the Milan-Saronno line, without wanting to appear bell-towerist. It's a decree-law that's made a few people happy. Then, I don't know who among my colleagues or colleagues said, but about President De Luca - who is president of the Campania Region, but is not part of my political group - the reference to the mayor of Eboli, as far as frying is concerned, probably comes from a Freudian lapsus, perhaps thinking of Christ who had stopped in Eboli, because of votes, so, not many will be won: the Italians, beyond the electoral campaign of committees for the "yes" and for the "no", the Italians know well what to vote and where they want to go. The decree-law under consideration therefore does not have to do with the referendum campaign, but I think it is a false step of the government, for the various things I have just said and for the many others that could still say, but, alas, the time is tyrant and I have to refer to the explanation of vote of my group leader at tomorrow's sitting. [[Applause from the AL-A Group and Senators Albertini and Di Maggio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u252	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u253	Mr President, tonight I would like to tell two stories of ordinary madness that have happened inside these classrooms. The first concerns the way in which the decree-law in question was incardinated. At one point, last week, in the Budget Committee, we were told that it would be incardinated the following day: too bad that when we incardinated it, we opened the file and there was not even the text of the Decree-Law, but only the modified parts. The decree-law arrived the next day and already this seems quite crazy. The technical report has even arrived after that. Not only that, while we were framing the decree-law, that of course we had only to incardinate (we would miss it!We have already decided on the timetable, with a deadline for tabling amendments, both for the House and for the Commission, which preceded the general discussion on the decree-law itself. An absolutely insane process. The second story of ordinary madness that I want to tell in this House is the economic policy that the government is pursuing and the way it is pursuing it. As regards the method, this tax decree has practically become - as other colleagues have already said - a substitute for the law of stability. In fact, under the reform of the accounting law that you passed a few months ago, many things can no longer be included in the budget law. So, what did you think you were doing? To present a tax decree and put into it everything possible imaginable, because in the budget law you can no longer do it. This is already an incredible thing. By the way, always on the basis of the amendment you have approved, the accounting law will no longer allow the control of money flows: and this is a major problem, which the Court of Auditors had already highlighted. Therefore, this is a decree-law that not only serves as a cover to the budget law, it is also a related to the budget law, but it is a measure that absolutely does not comply with the accounting law, for various reasons. The first reason is that the covers are one-off measures, but since when we held the hearings on the budget law this decree-law was included in the tables of the budget law, it means that these one-off covers will be used to cover the expenses of the budget law. Too bad you expect one-off cover, while expenses remain fixed every year. I'd like to see how this works. By the way, we have not been able to assess these coverages under Article 81 of the Constitution, because for now they do not cover anything and the coverage is used in the budget law, but when we examine the budget law we will not be able to express ourselves under Article 81 on the coverages because they are in this decree-law, which in the meantime will have already been converted. We're insane. Secondly, these covers are not quantified, they are just a prediction: another madness. In fact, a cover for the budget law must not only be quantified but also properly quantified, otherwise the budget law does not stand. The third reason why it does not comply with the accounting law is the question of the quotas resulting from the fight against tax evasion: the money that comes from the fight against tax evasion must be placed in the Fund for the reduction of the tax burden. I turn to the Government: it is not enough to insert the word "tax" in the decree-law to mean that money is needed to reduce the tax burden. Such revenues should be allocated to a special fund for the reduction of the tax burden. What do you do instead? Without them being properly quantified, being a one-off take, they are used to cover the budget law. I would also like to say a few words about the fight against tax evasion. I'm a little tired of hearing that you're only fighting tax evasion at the end of the year, because that's good for you. Say: since we have taken this from the fight against tax evasion, we use it to cover the budget law. First of all, the fight against tax evasion - I am addressing the Government - should be quite serious and the fight should be not only evasion, but also avoidance and distraction of funds. In addition, the fight against tax evasion, if it were to coincide with the fight against mafias, would bring a lot of revenue to the state's coffers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are talking about a round of business, which has represented a figure of EUR 359 billion in the last twenty-four years, not to mention the agri-food sector and the EUR 30 billion in Community fraud: it is a turnover ranging from EUR 120 billion to EUR 130 billion per year, with a profit of EUR 70 billion. Compared to this decree-law, with 70 billion per year all Italians would be fine! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Instead, we fight tax evasion by acting on the usual, those who pay, but who in this moment of crisis fail to do so, because to the real smart ones, as Senator Milo said, you have given escapades to pay less than they could afford and in a longer time. I would then like to see where this fight against tax evasion lies. Then I would just like to mention one thing, without opening the argument because it would require half a day to talk about this, to what takes away corruption, which is not even considered by the government. Corruption increases the cost of all projects in public works by almost 13%. If there were a serious fight against corruption, we would have the public works that would cost less and the State would have extra money to invest for the Italians. Moreover, major foreign investors do not come to Italy, having to spend 13 percent more to do the same things they can do elsewhere. As I said, this is just a hint. On the other hand, let us turn to the real economic policy of this Government. Here, in my opinion, you get to pure madness. In this year's budget law - it has irony, because it is the only breath of expansionism in the maneuver - you have sterilized 15 billion safeguard clauses. These are not the last billion safeguard clauses, which are reported year after year, we already have 23 that will be sterilized next year and in 2019 you will have to sterilize another 3.6 billion, otherwise VAT will reach 25.9%. I understand that the government pretends not to hear these figures, because they are huge: this year the maneuver is 26 billion, next year it will take 23 billion just to sterilize the safeguard clauses. I don't know how you're gonna do it. What does all this mean? It means that, in order to balance the budgets of previous years, you have mortgaged the following years until 2019. Not only that, but continue to act with one-off covers and if it is true that this year, if everything goes as you said, there are, how will you cover the expenses in the coming years, since the entry is only once and the expenses instead are structural? Another policy that has created huge holes in the budget is that of bonuses. Only the 80 euros have brought 10 billion holes to the budget without generating - I say not I, but the ISTAT - no fly in the real economy; indeed, it has led that some Italians have had to return the bonus. This bonus policy doesn't help. And how do you close the budgets of the last few years? Use the deficit. We also argue that it is okay to use the deficit, but if you use it to put the patches at the holes you have made in previous years because you cannot close the accounts, by means of creating holes and deficits then you get to the current situation, that is that for next year's budget law we have to start from -23 billion euros. It does not seem to me to be a great economic policy. So much so, continue to do so, because the cover provided, in this decree-law are not those that had to be for the budget law because they are not safe and the only motivation of this decree-law, the only urgency, was to find cover, even if one time so that they are not good. That is why you have made this decree-law and you have compressed Parliament's time so much because you wanted to convert it in the times you said. This mode can no longer be seen in these classrooms: it is unacceptable for the government to have such great interference with the Upper House, the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u254	He's enlisted to speak Senator Azzollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u255	Mr President, speaking badly of this tax decree-law would be a bit like shooting at the Red Cross and then one tries immediately to highlight the only good thing there is, namely the relief (not the removal, as we will see in a few minutes) of the sanctions on the debitory records, a late measure taken by the Government, but at least relieves the tax penoness of those records subject to unreasonablely burdensome sanctions. So, it is a measure that the government has done well to adopt. However, in order to take this measure only one thing would have to be done: to change the rule that gives rise to those onerous sanctions and that inflates what I would call improperly the levying surcharge. The citizens could be less vexed and the opportunity for the past could be transparently seized. It would have been easy, with only one readable article: dear gentlemen, from now on there are no more these onerous surcharges and even the current burdens are reduced. No. The excellent Renzi Government, in order to gain a little 'of advertising (no more, because, as we will see, the wrongdoing in many areas are several and some will soon come to light), does something that is really extraordinary: since in the volcano the word "Equitalia" is bad, instead of following the normal road and changing the name to Equitalia, the Government liquid immediately, without liquidation, Equitalia. Everything I tell you is written exactly in the provision: liquid Equitalia without liquidation suddenly, transports the staff, maintaining situations that are already there and, bringing them you don't know how, reattributes them to the Agency of Revenue-Riscossioni, which however will collect directly, but through a new instrumental agency that I do not know what will be called. The instrumental institution by definition takes over universally in all legal relationships and is again Equitalia! It will be said that the authoritative Deputy Minister, whom I see present in this Chamber, will have thought about it, eliminating at least the honesty of sanctions. Well, no. All paragraphs of Article 1 have changed, except for paragraph 7, which remains in its place, quiet and stainless. It states: "Stand firm as provided for in Article 9 of Legislative Decree no. 159 of September 24, 2015, i.e. everything I have just said. However, the provision is more precise, because the Government is precise: when it does the wrong things, it makes them precise. Therefore, paragraph 7 continues: For the year 2017, the determined costs, approved and published by Equitalia SpA, pursuant to Article 9 of this Regulation, are valid. Then for 2017 the costs are still valid, then for 2018 we will see, and in any case remains firm as provided by Article 9 of Legislative Decree no. 159. Mr Deputy Minister, frankly, this is a measure to mock the Italians: if a 30% reduction was to be made, then the honesty of those sanctions had to be removed and it had to be told the Italians: from tomorrow you no longer pay them in those entities. Instead it is said: Italians, those until today we take them off and from tomorrow continue as before. But don't worry, I changed the name! And then it makes a mess, you will understand, with personal steps and everything else, that of course they will find a whole series of problems that we are not able to see at the moment, but that will certainly arise. Something that, indeed, not even the worst imagination could think! So let's tell the Italians that we only do one thing for the past and the future is the same. But the government may have wondered: Alas, however, I have done one good thing - as I said before - that of less honesty! Then what do you do? Think about eliminating it. So, after Parliament has inserted the installment over a long period of time, six or seven years, the government says, "Look, what can this rule really be now? No! And it only involves four installments, then it becomes five with the transition to the House, so a gentleman who had spread his debt in six years has to pay it in a year, albeit with a reduction of 30 percent. It is true that it will be possible to access forms of financing, but this is part of the wisdom, cunning of the citizen who is ingenious and finds the way. The government hasn't even kept up the only good thing it could have kept. And beware: then, the five instalments become a habit, and Parliament, which after 4 December will not be closed but will still be open, will do something for the citizens. This is really what happened, text to hand. Deputy Minister Casero is definitely more British than me: I don't know what they call those television things that I only call in dialect, I think talk show (or something like that). Well, talk shows don't say any of this and they invent terrible things and they speculate on the terrible drama of those who see extraordinary sanctions and the only thing they want is to abolish the name Equitalia, but we have a duty to be lucid and really do the interests of the citizen. Then, however, the government in Article 1 realizes and thinks: do you see what I did? Even with so many things I'm doing to these poor citizens, I forgot how to make life a little harder for them! Then think about it with Article 4. I ask all senators and senators to see the page of the technical report that accompanies this provision and that illustrates the obligations to which citizens will be subject under this decree-law: dozens and dozens; they fill three pages and intersect in an incredible way. Of course everyone has already risen (if they are aware: beware, it is dangerous!) because, of course, it will become an extra cost for those who pay taxes, because whether the big company needs to strengthen its offices in order to carry out these tasks, or for smaller companies to resort to consultants, they are forced to pay more. It's nonsense! This is said - I do not watch television but I think it is said - that we want to make the relationship between the tax and the citizen more friendly. But it's amazing how short-legged lies are! Moreover, from this journey of cards - imagine how many, I will say something about it - you take hundreds of millions more: what a joy for these citizens who pay more hundreds of millions of taxes! You guys are awesome! Tell the citizens that with these new obligations you think you will increase the costs of business and the tax burden, because it is clear that the obligations are done by those who pay taxes. It's something that's really unbelievable. The assumption - of course, on these words we could entertain for a long time - is that these obligations serve the fight against evasion or such things, then we will see if it is true. I say that this is not the case because I always look at the estimates, never the estimates, and the scissors between the estimates and the estimates are enormous and above all it is said that the recovery of evasion is what are formal errors to which the citizens then regularly remedy. So, we have to do well to calculate what you actually take. One last thing, Mr President: in all this history, a member of the Budget Commission can only be irritated. Nothing is true of the speech about the money that you would take here, but the worst thing is the following: for a moment I want to give credit to the hypothesis that from this decree-law money comes. Well: there is a precise rule of the accounting law, article 10-a, which says that when there are more revenue, so even those deriving from the fight against evasion, you have the obligation - Senator Bulgarelli said just now - to put them in an ex post fund when you really cashed them - this is the question I discussed before - you must give them priority to reducing the tax burden. Here, however, before we even see how much money we take, on the basis of an estimate we allocate resources not to the reduction of the tax burden but to finance, as a whole, the budget law, including new expenditures, so with the increased revenue we finance new expenditures. That's why, nothing but zero comma! These are the maneuvers that not only irritate the European Commissions who monitor our accounts (which is already an important thing but is not the decisive one), because they do not reduce the structural factors that lower the productivity of the Italy system. That's the bottom line. And why does it bother me? Because it is the Government that deliberately violates a rule, however strengthened, such as the law of accounting. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a request to the Deputy Minister, Mr Casero, who will surely answer me very accurately. Given that this Parliament, even the vilified Senate, systematically approves that famous resolution by an absolute majority in which we discuss the structural balance and since Italy fails to fulfil its commitments on the structural balance, I would like to know from Deputy Minister Casero, having in this decree-law so many one-off measures that finance expenditure, such as voluntary disclosure, what both the impact and the increased revenue and the new expenditure provided for by this measure have on the structural balance. I ask this in advance so that, next time, when we have to vote, we will have very precise knowledge and I hope, indeed, that the Government will give a very timely response to what is required.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u256	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u257	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u259	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, about a week ago, together with 25 fellow senators, I tabled a question concerning the long history of Ustica. In this question, I drew a reply from the official bulletin of the House to a question that the then Minister of Defence, Sergio Mattarella, gave on the subject and, of course, I reported the text. Now, apparently, a question signed by 25 colleagues is not published because you could not refer to the name of the Head of State, when he was Minister, which perhaps happened on the Soviet Encyclopedia when they deleted the figures of the characters and politicians who had fallen into disgrace. In this case there is no polemical reference: it is only remembered that the minister protempore of that time, Mattarella, answered in Parliament on the issue Ustica in a certain way. Now, I would not like you to pass the question without the Minister's name, and then I would have to link the speech in this House, remembering that the Minister who spoke in 2000, answering the question, was Sergio Mattarella, and make the link to make it clear to those who read the question of who we are talking about. I found precedents, both in the House and in the Senate, where in questions and questions, being president of the Ciampi Republic, his name was reported when he spoke, for example, as President of the Council or Minister of the Treasury. There are all the questions asked by the PCI Group, which even demanded the impeachment of Francesco Cossiga when he was Head of State and then addressed directly to the Head of State with very heavy words, asking for his resignation, and they were accepted. But this isn't about any of this. It is a question of why, after a week, this question remains blocked and is not published, even if signed by twenty-five senators. If they put in writing the reasons why they intend not to publish it and tell me that we cannot, in a parliamentary question, appoint the Head of State, even when in his previous duties, he was acting as Minister, then we will draw our own assessments. It is not acceptable, however, that this question has been before the Senate presidency for eight days to get an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u260	Senator Giovanardi, the act is being examined by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u261	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u262	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u263	ORRU' (PD). Mr President, with this late sitting speech I continue today in the Senate a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is, or has been, bound by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. In Nubia in the province of Trapani, there was unfortunately yet another feminicide, a woman, Anna Manuguerra, of sixty years old, was killed with thirty stabbed by her husband. The woman, all referred to as a humble and dedicated person to the family, had repeatedly expressed fear for her life until she came to ask for separation, thinking that this could be enough to avoid the worst. Thus the women we remember in this relay climb to twenty-seven, which began only on June 30. ISTAT informs us that a woman is killed in Italy every 2.2 days. 46.3 percent of the women killed die at the partner's hands. The severity of sexual and physical violence has increased. Cases of assisted violence are also growing. Femicide is almost always the extreme result of a series of long-standing violent behaviors, as well as in the case of Mrs. Anna, who has suffered for years the physical and moral angeries of her husband. It is always a matter of blind violence, of a will of dominion on the part of those who consider the woman not as a person but as an object to possess and therefore does not accept abandonment. In two days, 25 November, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women is celebrated. Today's intervention not only wants to remind the victims of feminicide, but also intends to focus attention on a problem to be tackled decisively. It is necessary to protect and support women who live in this situation of perennial danger, women who suffer violence for years, in silence, so as not to disturb the family that would not be able to understand their unhappiness and their pain. Women like Mary, murdered and burned a few years ago in Trapani with her baby in her womb and like Stefania, always in Trapani, killed together part of her family. With Law No 119 of 2013 against gender violence, which this Parliament approved in implementation of the Istanbul Convention, our country has recognised violence against women as a violation of human rights and gender discrimination. He acknowledged that violence against women is a social phenomenon that has its roots in the relationship of asymmetrical power between men and women. Let us make our appeal with conviction. An appeal to the Minister with delegation for equal opportunities and to the Government everything: the steering booth that met for the first time on September 8 monitor the application, the virtues and the limits of law 119. An appeal to the country, men and women: 160 women killed every year, we can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u264	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u265	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u266	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, it is my duty to make known in this House what happened at the TD Group company in Pisa, near the Democratic Party, where three hundred workers received a letter in which they were invited to set up committees for the yes to the referendum on 4 December. The current majority in Italy has not limited itself to precariousising work and making workers blackmailable with formulas such as the contract for increasing protections and vouchers, but now also wants workers to become accomplices in their plan to dismantle the Constitution. This is not the first time that the owner of the TD Group promotes such initiatives and it seems that he has the fixed nail of wanting to involve his employees in order to participate in events in favor of the Democratic Party when election campaigns are underway: in May 2015 his employees had to attend a meeting of the candidate of PD Antonio Mazzeo, already city councilor in Pisa and head of the election. Antonio Mazzeo was then elected to the Regional Council and has now become responsible for the regional committee of Tuscany for the yes. Today, the founder and owner of the TD Group is once again mobilizing for its employees to set up and set up one or more yes committees. Of course, intertwined and important contracts link TD Group to the Tuscany Region and to local politics and casually Mazzeo's brother worked for the TD Group and the company is involved - by chance - in the investigation of Banca Etruria. It is sad to see the heat with which this entrepreneur drags his employees in this political-electoral adventure plaqued PD; recalls the company climate described in the films by Paolo Villaggio, where megadirectors invited employees to participate in the most incredible initiatives. We say this loud and clear from this House, Mr President: workers deserve respect! Above all, workers must be free to express their political views! The letter addressed by the businessman TD Group to its employees turns out to be unheard of and unbearable, damaging the workers' fundamental right to freedom of opinion. It is a field invasion into the private and personal sphere of workers in a relationship that is not equal and symmetrical, such as that which is established between employee and employer. The fact that employees form yes committees or not may represent an attempt to map the political views of employees, an action expressly prohibited by Article 8 of the so-called Workers' Statute. How not to notice, then, that in the last ten years the company TD Group has enjoyed more than 16 million euros allocated by the Tuscany Region to organize conferences: evidently they had much to say! That is why I put a question today to the Ministers of the Interior, Labour and Social Security and I reserve the right to present a specific question to the competent judicial and supervisory authorities to carefully assess possible offences. Mr President, thank goodness not all workers get bought for a fry of fish and there are still workers who can report. We therefore invite anyone who is subjected to certain blackmails to denounce: a political force that finally defends them is and is the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u267	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-729.ana.u268	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 24 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.03 p.m.
