ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,08 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders, which met today, remodeled the current calendar and approved the new calendar until 22 September 2016. In order to ensure the conclusion by Thursday of next week of the examination of the expired decree-laws and other topics considered to be priority, the timetable provides for single meetings with the Presidency's power to establish the suspension and closing times in relation to the progress of the work. The hope is to end the European delegation law between tonight and tomorrow and the amendment to the accounting law. They will follow the other arguments - with priority to the decrees-laws - as indicated in the attached calendar, starting from the bill on the caporalate. In the afternoon session tomorrow, at 4 p.m., the Minister of the Interior will answer questions on the following topics: measures of public security aimed at preventing and combating fundamentalist terrorism; national system of reception of migrants. The calendar can also be supplemented by the resolution of the Assembly for the constitution in court of the Senate in a conflict of powers. During the summer break, the Commissions are authorised to convene at any time in relation to the needs arising in matters of their own competence. The ordinary activity of the Commissions will resume from Monday 5 September. The Assembly will meet again on Tuesday afternoon 13 September to follow up the bill on criminal proceedings. The report will be carried out in the Chamber next week. Then the discussion of the other topics in the calendar will continue, to which is added the draft law on parks. In the afternoon session of Thursday 15 September, starting at 3 p.m., a long-term inspection union will be held in order to respond to the most urgent documents reported by the Groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the programme of the Senate's work for the months of July, August and September 2016: - Draft law n. 119 and related - New provisions on protected areas
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u6	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new timetable for work until 22 September 2016: [[Wednesday, July 27 pom. h. 16 - Following draft law n. 2345 - European delegation law (adopted by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Draft law n. 2451 and connected - Provisions concerning the content of the budget law (adopted by the Chamber of Deputies) Thursday 28 " ant. h. 9.30 Thursday 28 July pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister of the Interior on: - public security measures aimed at preventing and combating fundamentalist terrorism; - national system for the reception of migrants]] The hours of suspension and closure of the meetings will be determined by the Presidency in relation to the progress of the proceedings. The calendar can be supplemented with the resolution of the Assembly for the constitution in court of the Senate in a conflict of powers. [[Monday, August 1st pom. h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 2495 - Decree-Law n. 113, financial measures territorial authorities (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 23 August) - Drawing of law n. 2500 - Decree-Law n. 117, administrative process telematic (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 29 August) - Drawing of law n. 2217 and connected - Contrast to the "caporalate" - Drawing of law n. 2271 and related - Publishing (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2290 and connected - Food waste (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2067 and connected - Modifications to the penal code, to the penal procedure code and to the penitentiary order (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Report) - Drawing of law n. 2287 and connected - Discipline of the cinema, of the audiovisual and the performance (Cowed by the law of the final maneuvering of public finance) with the final number (Vo) the presence of the final number of the presence of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of law (Report) XXII n. 5 - Institution Commission of inquiry into seismic events in Abruzzo - Drawing of law n. 2092 and related - Provisions on citizenship (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Follow-up to bill n. 10-362-388-395-849-874-B - Crime of torture (Approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 119 and related - Parks and protected areas Tuesday 2 " ant. h. 9,30 Wednesday 3 " ant. h. 9,30 Thursday 4 " ant. h. 9,30]] Amendments to draft law No 2495 (Law No 113, financial measures for territorial authorities) will have to be tabled no later than 5 p.m. on Thursday 28 July. Amendments to bill No 2290 and related (Food quotas) should be tabled no later than 1 p.m. on Friday 29 July. The deadline for tabling amendments to the other draft legislation on the calendar will be set in relation to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, September 13 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Follow-up to the bill n. 2067 and related - Amendments to the penal code, the code of criminal procedure and the penitentiary order (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Following arguments not concluded Wednesday 14 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 15 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 15 September pom. h. 15 - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday, September 20 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following arguments not concluded Wednesday 21 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 22 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 22 September pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] The Commissions shall be authorised to convene at any time in relation to any need arising in matters within their competence. The ordinary activity of the Commissions will resume from Monday 5 September. Amendments to the bill n° 2067 and related (Amendments to the penal code, the criminal procedure code and the penitentiary order) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 8 September. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2345 (Law of European Delegation) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 23' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2495 (Decree-Law No 113, financial measures for territorial authorities) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 23' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2500 (Decree-Law No 117, electronic administrative process) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 23' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']] Breakdown of times for discussion of draft laws No 2287 and related (Cinema, audiovisual and entertainment) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 44' AP (NCD-UDC) 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 34' AL-A 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2085 (annual market law and competition) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 44' AP (NCD-UDC) 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 34' AL-A 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2233 and related (Autonomous work) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 44' AP (NCD-UDC) 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 34' AL-A 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u9	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking for clarification. Is the non-predictability of the time at the end of the sitting also related to tomorrow's afternoon sitting which, in case, can arrive until 4 p.m.? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course, Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u12	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as you know, the timetable has been adopted by a majority. In the reading you have given, there is a reference to a list of measures which perhaps deserve to be presented to the House in detail, since it is different from that of the previous week and has a different order. In that list of measures the draft law on cinema appears only with regard to its incardination. Our request is for this measure to be fully discussed and completed during the coming week, of course within the time allocated to the Assembly by the Conference of Leaders for meetings. Finally, I did not catch it, but perhaps I was distracted, the closing date for next week's work. I would therefore ask you to indicate this kindly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thursday, August 4th has no closing hours, Senator D'Alì.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u15	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I entrust you to your sensitivity and, as provided for in Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure, to your decision-making autonomy, to the possibility of putting the motions declared urgent on time. In particular, as far as I am concerned, I ask for the inclusion of motion 1-00555, tabled with 81 signatures on 6 April 2016. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Can you remind the Presidency of the subject of the motion? D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, this is about the need to commit the government to taking urgent action with regard to the welfare policy of young diabetic patients in schools. It has played a central role in the debate on similar subjects relating to the subject, even when we have, in recent years, addressed a motion on a new governance within the system of prevention, information and care of diabetic patients. We have dealt with the interests which have not yet been identified by the relevant legislation and commitments, which relate precisely to the welfare policies of young children attending secondary, upper and lower schools. In this sense, with as many as 81 signatures from all political groups, we have tabled, pursuant to Rule 157, a special motion on 6 April 2016. Indeed, Mr President, those who have spoken to you have tabled at least seven or eight urgent questions in recent years. Now, inopportunely, the expressly provided for in Article 157 is disregarded. In this sense, I entrust to his sensitivity my desire that at least this motion be scheduled in the shortest time and, of course, compatible with the timetable already defined. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Your proposal will be put to the vote, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u18	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to propose to you one of the issues that I raised at the meeting of the group leaders and which follows on from last week's animated debate on the draft law on torture, the issue of which is being dealt with, in the timetable proposal, is being moved a lot further, contrary to what President Zanda himself has said. We therefore propose that on 13 September, at the reopening, we start again with a kind of session of justice with the provision on limitation and, to follow, the bill on torture. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Is this a proposal to change the timetable to be voted on? DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Of course, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u21	GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, I agree with the request made by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri on the motion to which I and many of my colleagues are signatories. In addition to the regulatory fact recalled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, an ethical issue concerns families with children suffering from type 1 diabetes who have spent the 2016 school year in great and profound difficulty. We do not understand why work so well undertaken by the Ministries of Health and Public Education cannot be completed. And that is exactly what was required in the motion in question. I would therefore also like to ask you to include this motion on the agenda as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u24	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I confirm the request already made at the Conference of Leaders. The 5 Star Movement considers it unacceptable that at this moment - and unfortunately it will probably be possible - a senator of the Republic, on whose head hangs a request for arrest, can continue to circulate freely for the Senate classrooms. In view of the decision of the Junta to vote on the document on Senator Caridi on Tuesday evening, which we have just heard, I would ask for a remodulation of the timetable so that the House can vote on the request for arrest made by the Prosecutor as early as Wednesday morning. I also ask for the introduction into the calendar of motion 613 of the 5 Star Movement concerning the Government's commitments to the foreign policy and internal security of our country. I denounce in this House the fact that it seems to have disappeared from the timetable of proceedings a measure that we had set aside for a very short period of time. I am referring to the famous bill for the introduction of the torture crime that, at this point, we will see again perhaps in 2017 and certainly not in 2016. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The only economic measure that would serve our country is still missing from the appeal. I would once again ask for the inclusion in the timetable of the discussion of our draft law on the introduction of a citizenship income for Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u27	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, the request that we make, given that we are approving a timetable which goes beyond the summer, is that our proposal to introduce the pharmacological treatment of those convicted of crimes of sexual violence be scheduled, even in the light of what is happening in our country these days. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u28	We shall now proceed to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, made by Senator D'Alì, to include the complete examination of the draft law on cinema, compared to the calendar which only provides for its incardination. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's work, made by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Granaiola, to schedule the motion on assistance to diabetic patients in schools. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, made by Senators De Petris and Lucidi, aimed at anticipating in September, after examining the bill amending the penal code and the code of criminal procedure, the bill on torture. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable of the Assembly's proceedings, tabled by Senator Lucidi, to anticipate to Wednesday morning the measure defined by the Junta for the elections and parliamentary immunity concerning Senator Caridi. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, made by Senator Lucidi, to schedule the motion on the security and international activity of the Government. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. Colleagues, since there is perhaps a certain shyness to raise hands, I cannot well distinguish the hands raised from the hands raised in half, so I have the counterproof also for this reason. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, tabled by Senator Lucidi, to schedule the examination of the bill on citizenship income. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, made by Senator Centinario, to schedule the examination of the bill on pharmacological treatment for those who are responsible for crimes of sexual violence. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for the work which I have communicated to the House remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u31	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I would like to thank you for your kindness with regard to the proposal I made earlier. Obviously the political assessments do not belong to this occasion of intervention, but I entrust to its sensitivity - and in this sense I renew the request - to put in place its prerogatives, as laid down in paragraph 3 of Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. I have made it clear to you that my motion is signed by more than one fifth of the Members of this House and, therefore, the President may, pursuant to paragraph 6 of Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure, determine the date of its appointment in the timetable. Mr President, I would like to point out that I did not press for it to be included in the calendar tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. As the Rules of Procedure provide for 30 days, with the common sense that I recognise, you will have the courtesy and kindness to take it into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u32	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, thank you. Since we were within the framework of the timetable and because at the Conference of Parents, given the priority of so many legal provisions, we decided not to give rise to the presentation of motions, I wanted to have the comfort of the House on this decision already taken by the Leaders. In any case, we will keep your request in mind for the future, when the work is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u33	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2345, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the examination of Articles 1 to 5 and the amendments and agendas submitted to them began and that there was no quorum on the vote on amendment 1.4. (16.30) We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Liuzzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Liuzzi, do you insist on voting on the agenda G1,100? LIUZZI (CoR). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1,100, tabled by Senator Liuzzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on agenda G1,101, tabled by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1. Senator Santangelo, I see you standing. Do you have to make a request?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u34	Yes, Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous ballots by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u35	Senator Sant'Angelo, I recommend you follow the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u36	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I will always ask you for the electronic vote, automatically, and you know it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I know, but you must also seize the moment and the electronic vote must ask for it. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, if we do a competition between you and me, there are those fifteen years of difference that matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u37	No, it's not a race, and in fact I alerted her. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Liuzzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.7, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.8, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators, up to the words "the following": (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.11. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 3.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G3.100 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u38	Mr President, we are asking that votes be taken simultaneously by electronic procedure, not before we have asked you to extract all the cards entered by the absent senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u39	I was thinking batch extraction.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u40	SANTANGELO (M5S). In any other workplace these things are well sanctioned. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The extraction of the cards can be done. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] All right, let's check it out. SANTANGELO (M5S). This is the only place in Italy where you can enter the card even if you are absent. It's a shame. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He made his request. I beg the Senators Secretary to proceed with the extraction of the cards. SANTANGELO (M5S). Please pay the right attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u41	I also ask colleagues to facilitate the work of the Secretary Senators with proper self-regulation. I invite the Senator Secretary to check if the request made by Senator Santangelo is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Liuzzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Liuzzi and other senators, until the words "national level" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.3 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. LIUZZI (CoR). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.6, tabled by Senator Liuzzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). My card is disabled, as I am present at the Presidency. However, I would ask colleagues to extract it in order to avoid distorted optical effects. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.1, tabled by Senators Candiani and Mauro Giovanni, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.2 are therefore excluded. Amendments 5.3 and 5.5 have been withdrawn and changed to agenda G5.5, which has been accepted. Senator Ruta, do you insist on voting? RUTA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.5, tabled by Senator Ruta. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Candiani, do you maintain your amendment 5.4 or do you intend to sign the agenda G5.5? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I withdraw the amendment and add my signature to agenda G5.5. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ruta, do you accept Senator Candiani's signature? RUTA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 5.4 is therefore withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u44	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, it seems to me that Senator Ruta also insisted on voting on the other agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u45	Senator Calderoli, the text of the agenda received from the Presidency included the content of amendments 5.3 (identical to amendment 5.4) and 5.5. I was the one who did not compare the texts, but the Offices ensured that the text voted includes all the amendments. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.6, tabled by Senator Liuzzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 5.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Tarquinio (CoR). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.7, tabled by Senator Tarquinio and other senators, up to the words "they" refer to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.9 are therefore not included. Let us turn to Amendment 5.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Tarquinio (CoR). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I call for the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.8, tabled by Senator Tarquinio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.10, tabled by Senators Candiani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.11, tabled by Senators Candiani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.12/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u48	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on the occasion of the examination of the amendments signed by Senator Tarquinio, of this which we are examining and of the subsequent amendments, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to an absolutely fundamental issue for our agriculture, namely that the labelling of products should indicate precisely the place of production, as Senator Amidei suggests in this case, and the origin of the main ingredients of the food, as another amendment by Senator Candiani will suggest. We will certainly vote in favour of this series of amendments, because one of the problems facing our agriculture is precisely the counterfeiting of our originality and the use of non-Italian products in packages that can be confused with national production. All the countries of the world keep their products very jealously and, equally invasively, try to use the originality of others (many also provide products not from our country for our national productions). We must avoid this practice which condemns our products to a reduction in their value on the national and international market and, to this end, we believe that European legislation is lacking or at least that the transposition of European legislation into our legal system is not sufficient to protect our products. Several times we have tried to draw the Government's attention to this issue and in recent days, Mr President, there is a desperate alarm from all the professional associations about the quotations of many products. The price of some products, even if not packaged (I am thinking of cereal products), which in Italy have a value, is falling due to imports of products very often not certified and uncontrolled from countries outside the EU. I think we have a duty not to fly over opinions and vote without considering what we are failing. We absolutely must approve the amendments which provide for a form of protection for our products. This is not an antique protectionism (I am thinking of duties and everything that once created distortions of the market), but a protectionism of quality: I am referring to a healthy and genuine protectionism on the quality of products which also leads to an appreciation of them on the free market. Why, then, reject these important elements? The place of production of the products shall be indicated on the label. This is, in this case, our national production. We cannot allow, under labels that also bear the name Italy, to hide goods that have not been produced in our territory. In thanking Senator Amidei and the other colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture, who also spoke during the examination of the draft law of a European delegation, and all those who are proposing these amendments, I would ask colleagues not to consider them as politically opposed to the majority, but as amendments tabled in the exclusive interest of Italian farmers, overwhelmed, in the last few days and weeks, in the absolute silence of the Government. We have not heard this imaginative and non-existent Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy speak about the fall in the price of cereal products in our Italy as a result of imports of products from third countries. This is totally unacceptable. We expect - and the Deputy Minister of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy is present here - that the Government will strike a blow on this issue, given that Coldiretti, Confagricoltura, the Italian Confederation of Farmers and all the organizations of category are begging the Government to intervene on the collapse, absolutely inadmissible, of the national cereal product due to the large import of products from third countries. Either there is a rule that clearly establishes the quality of the Italian product, or we will be forced to close thousands and thousands of farms. Agriculture is not on the agenda of this Government and this majority, as it is considered a second-floor sector compared to other sectors that continue to enjoy continuous and exorbitant inputs in terms of both money and assistance for their merits, as well as for their needs. We therefore call for the Senate to strike a blow to pay attention to Italian agriculture, which is sinking under the absolute silence of the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u51	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I call on the Government to pay close attention to the amendments before us and, above all, to the arguments put forward in this House and to the last speech by Senator D'Alì. Beyond the tones, which may sometimes not be shared, the questions posed are absolutely well founded, because it is clear that, beyond the Expo commercial, there is a clear feeling of a policy that is sometimes unwise towards large sectors of Italian agriculture, with particular reference to Mediterranean agriculture. Mr. Deputy Minister Olivero, you have the impression of a tired and distracted action, of the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies, because the central quality assurance inspectorate is far from the performances we have experienced in the past years, when it was called the Central Inspection for fraud repression and was led by Dr. Giovanni Lo Piparo: I want to remind you, because we must remember the excellence of the Italian bureaucracy. So we are far from that level of attention. Today there are methods that allow us to overcome any circumvention in the matter of counterfeiting. We also know of innovative programmes, drawn up by the State Poligrafico, which could easily be put into operation and be a source of revenue and not, on the contrary, of expenditure. I am sorry about the opinion of the Budget Commission. On these arguments I believe that Deputy Minister Olivero and, in particular, Undersecretary Gozi must give comprehensive insurance to the whole Parliament, the country and the majority that supports the Government. Sometimes we have the impression that some sectors of the majority and the government have a more interested attitude to the needs of large-scale organized distribution and to the reasons for some well-defined and very powerful national and international lobbying, and instead are distracted towards the issues so far audits. Today the situation is serious and unbearable, as Senator D'Alì recalled: we are witnessing the collapse of one of the Italian excellences, the collapse of the value of wheat, with particular reference to Italian durum wheat, which today has an absolutely low price: we speak of 10 or 11 cents per kilo and therefore of 10 or 11 euros per quintal. There are such low figures, because imports are likely to arrive, which need to be verified and monitored. If we compare the verification actions carried out over about a decade and the resulting sanctions, we note that in the last fifteen years there has been a decrease, or even a collapse of these activities. Therefore, the opportunity for this kind of debate in this House becomes important and is the right time to discuss these issues. Since I am convinced that the majority on these issues cannot be second to none and that it certainly is not, the speeches of Senators D'Alì and Tarquinio cannot remain unanswered. Therefore, please stand up and give the answers which Parliament and, above all, the Italian farmers and, in particular, the southern farmers deserve. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Amidei.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u54	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, the issue of labelling and the certainty of the origin of the product made in Italy, which I have been carrying on for about three years, as Vice-Minister Olivero knows, is quite serious and in some respects dramatic. You can't understand why the answer is always no. We do not understand why we do not want to make safety labelling: the consumer must know what he is eating, where the product comes from and whether it is an Italian product. The problem is not only the counterfeiting of our agricultural products abroad, but also the scams that consume Italian entrepreneurs. We do not understand the resistance of the Government, the Minister, the various Undersecretaries and, if I may, the structure of the Ministry of Agriculture. The issue is so incredible that it deserves another kind of investigation. As Mr Marinello said, there is no additional cost: it would cost very little to the company; it should pay only a few cents and we would be certain that if the company bought a million quintals of tomatoes it cannot produce 10 million quintals of tomato sauce. We need to figure out where a product comes from and how it is made. The issue concerns Italy and abroad. Well, there hasn't been an answer in three years. The situation is serious and at the same time delicate. We're talking about a 100% state institution. Why not? There is no cost; on the contrary, jobs are created. This story has some incredible stuff. I cannot understand the reasons; there can be no political or technical reason. There's another reason and it's creepy. It is not possible: always and only not. Why not? Do you want to protect the consumer, do you want to protect the honest producers, the production and quality of the Italian product? Well, there's the answer. You've been saying no for three years. There's nothing to do: a tomb silence. Honestly, as I have said before, in the end we should turn to the outside, to some other authorities, to understand what is nesting within the Ministry of Agriculture. That's the real thing. I would therefore ask you to consider: seriously consider why the next step will certainly not be in this House. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Mauro Giovanni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u57	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is clear that if the debate is taking such a heated turn, it is because the subject deserves attention. I would like to bring to the attention of the authors of amendment 5.12/1 a consideration: here the State Mint is called into question, as the guarantor of product safety or labelling. In light of the transmission "Report" that last night made known to us the levels of protection and guarantee provided by the Mint of the State regarding the production of the coined gold 995, when it is actually placed on the market with a title 999 - the one bought by Bank Etruria - I would have some perplexity to entrust this type of service to the Institute Poligrafico and Mint of the State that, - goodness of God - as its director says, does not get talked about by anyone, so after it returns also the five percent that is missing in the title of the metal or what is called the decrease (that then, someone should explain how it is possible that merging the pure gold there is a decrease of two percent!). Since we are talking about European law, Mr President, is this blessed VAT paid or not on investment gold (always what comes from Bank Etruria)? This is another theme, we'll see. Are you so sure that you want to entrust this service to the Mint of the State, that same institute, perhaps, that prints this bad stuff called euro? Are you sure about that? [[Applause from Senator Calderoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u60	Mr Ruvolo (AL-A). Mr President, first of all I would ask you to accept the amendment which has been the subject of so many debates in this House. I believe that once again the government must take a simple action: instead of genuflecting itself at the tables in Brussels, for once raise your head to defend Made in Italy. How many times have we listened to majority and government support Made in Italy: do it with concrete action and not always taking us on the wrong path. Today more than ever it is necessary to support the made in Italy. Labelling is the unique and essential tool to ensure that our Italian products really emerge. I shall conclude by hoping that the Government will give its opinion in favour of this amendment. Of course, I support it on behalf of the AL-A Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u61	Mr President, I would just like to make a brief comment on the points made by my fellow Members. First of all, I would like to say to Senator Ruvolo that we do not genuflect ourselves at the Brussels tables. We are well aware of what our agri-food model is and we are also well aware of how we must defend it. But in doing so, we know just as well that we are part of a single market, in which it is necessary to find points of synthesis with other countries. It is on this basis that we must work in the common interest. The fact that our government is doing its part well in this direction is said by the last steps, which have a particularly visible relevance, as in the case of the choice of having a full traceability on dairy products, chosen independently by our country and which places us in an objectively innovative condition within the European Union, together with only France. With regard to the choice made in recent days at the cereal table, I would like to make it clear that not only has the government not been insensitive to crisis situations, but it has put considerable resources in the past months, both in terms of the milk sector and now, in the immediate future (even with a decree that will be under discussion in the next few days in this House), on the cereals sector, with a plan that has been immediately shared, as a whole, with all the representatives of the agricultural world. I say this because we know what the problems are and also what the dimension of global issues is. But we are not holding hands, but we are trying to engrave. However, we must do so from the perspective of the European Union, knowing that we have the opportunity to protect our products to the full. We must ensure that they are traceable, and this is the road we have pursued and have achieved important results over the years. Fruit and vegetables are now guaranteed with respect to nationality, which was not foreseen a few years ago. Even the meat is guaranteed today, while it was not until a few years ago. Very soon, there will be a guarantee for milk and dairy products. They are epochal passages, where we can be truly satisfied with our action in Europe. But we are acting, as has been pointed out, not in the logic of protectionism, but in order to make it clear how traceability is the only way to guarantee food security, on the one hand, and protection of quality, on the other. That is the logic in which we are moving. Therefore, we do not consider it necessary to indicate in this amendment, because it is in this logic that we move, and not against the European Union, going into a priori opposition. The logic is to accompany all our actions with the clear intention of ensuring that other countries accept our arguments, so as to avoid those sanctions, which certainly do not please agriculture and which have often led, in the past years, our farmers to pay significant burdens today no longer sustainable. You can win the battle. The history of these years teaches us that. It is possible to guarantee traceability and protection of our quality, but it must be done with a progressive logic, being united and having clear the objective. Our country acts in this way and I can assure you that the Government and, above all, Minister Martina work and achieve results in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u64	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, I sincerely do not understand what response has been given. It's a non-answer, as usual. The problem is to provide guarantees. If there's no safety indicator, what the Deputy Minister says is useless. It means evading the problem, not entering the substance and here arises the doubt. That's the real thing. You still don't answer. Why? What are the resistances? What is the nature of resistance? I repeat, this is the figure. It is not possible that someone buys 100 and sells as if they had purchased 1,000. That's the real thing. Don't you want to face him? Don't you want to answer that? It's up to all of us because what we eat or drink is about all of us and our children. It's also about our dishonest producers. We need to protect the honest. It is incredible that for three years there has been no answer. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We vote hoping that there will be full awareness, beyond all else, that it is not a political battle, but for our citizens and our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u67	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on the amendment that I tabled. I appeal to the whole House: be careful, if we do not vote on this amendment, we will open the way to the recognition of the quality and origin of our products! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Let's put an end to the real Made in Italy. Attention, think about it! Mr. Deputy Minister, not recognizing the place of production of the product means not recognizing the quality of our product. Attention, think about it! We cannot accept the indication of the European Union because we produce products of excellence. We produce quality products and do not allow the recognition of this means throwing farms out of the market because they will no longer be competitive. Anyone can write that has been packaged or produced in Italy when the place of production is not well specified and identified. We already made a mistake when we eliminated the storage period within 18 months for olive oil. We are opening the way to non-quality products. Mr Vice-Minister, I would like to add something, which I also said in the Commission earlier. The problem of the cereals sector has been mentioned. We must tell everyone that the intervention of Minister Martina - who never deserves to come to this House to talk about agriculture - of EUR 3 million in 2016 is a must. The production of wheat is 4 million tons and 3 million divided per quintal means ten cents per quintal. Not even charity in church is done with ten cents. It's embarrassing. This is not the way to help Italian agriculture. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u70	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I understand that the practice that the majority no longer participates in the debate has now been established because there is no desire to touch an amendment because it is a matter of vacation. So we could find ourselves, with this catch, having to return to this law. But if our participation in the European Union makes sense it cannot be to demolish our national productions; this is a huge damage that is done to the country, we say it all the time. When it comes to agriculture, when it comes to European law, when it comes to the law of a European delegation, when it comes to the law on competitiveness, the problem always comes to this point. And then I ask the government, in particular undersecretary Gozi: do you want to take seriously, once and for all, the defence of the product made in Italy? Production is different from trade. When you go to make proclamations, saying that consumption has increased and that therefore the economy is recovering, shut up the fact that on the shelf there is 60-65 percent of imported product. That product will not increase the turnover of the Italian industry, the Italian farmer, the Italian craftsman, but will increase the turnover of a foreign producer. We want our consumer to be able to choose the goods he finds on the shelf. You know the numbers that I am about to list and you know, as has been well noted by the Ministry, that nine out of ten Italians think it is important to know the origin of the products for sale, that as many as 90 percent think so when it comes to dairy products and even 95 percent when it comes to buying fresh milk, fresh vegetables or rice (81 percent of our fellow citizens). You want to deny these people the right to know, as requested in the amendment, the origin of the main ingredients of the food and the place of production. Do you want to make this effort to be honest with the citizens? Other than constitutional reform, this is a serious reform, this is a serious change, this is a serious defence of the protection of citizens! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Malan.]] You want otherwise to say that the British have done badly to get out of the European Union. At least they defend their country; you are not even doing that and then come and tell us what you want to be the constituent Fathers. Go to hell!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u73	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, a mirror should be put in place to allow Members who preside over the work of this House to see this part of the Chamber too, in order to understand that sometimes we too ask for the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is There has even been a popular outcry to draw attention, Senator Uras. URAS (Mixed). I would first like to speak on the amendment before us in order to vote in favour, for two reasons. The first is general political: I think that Parliament has not only the right, but it has a duty to make the European Union feel that there is no debate on the protection of the quality of national agricultural production. It is not possible for us to be asked to adapt to lower forms of protection, which allow us to speculate on the quality of products and on the health of people. The second reason of more direct order, concerns the economic development of this country, which needs to think about its future by enhancing the productive quality that it is able to express and the productive vocations of our places and our regions. We do this especially with a certain type of agricultural production that has a Mediterranean base and has a particular base in Italy: we do it with oil, with wine. We don't want methanol wine anymore. [[Comments from the PD Group]] We no longer want industrial adulterated oils. We want all citizens, not only those of our regions, but also those who come to visit Italy, to know and can find the quality of which Italy is capable and which is also known outside our borders. If we do not do this - I tell the government - our country is a country that does not recover, that does not resurrect. In addition, the economy of the Mezzogiorno is particularly affected, that economy which is aiming at its own redemption on this type of production. It cannot be that the Government proposes legal texts of this nature which once again aggravate the heavy economic and social backwardness of the Mezzogiorno of Italy and the islands. We base our ransom on this. Those who take responsibility for such an operation should know that at the general political and consensus level it will pay a great deal. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u75	Senator Floris, Senator Amidei has already spoken, so while considering the delicacy of the subject, please be quick.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u77	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, for once I want to break a spear in favour of the government. I have heard figures on agriculture and wheat that do not correspond to the real ones, because Minister Martina has planned to deal with the wheat crisis 10 million plus 8 million: a total of EUR 18 million for farmers. But as I break a spearhead in favour of Mr Martina, I do not do the same for our positions in European policy, because the 18 million for wheat, and for so many other resources allocated to remedy the difficulties of the whole sector from agriculture and livestock, we are taking them away from other resources and, among other things, the government is also subtracting them from the Italians, because those resources are obtained by increasing taxes to our citizens. I want to add another consideration. In some parts of Italy, and Sardinia is no exception, there is a major crisis in the industrial sector and agriculture is an alternative resource. If this Government does not obtain the recognition of the Made in Italy, which all the members of the European Political Commission demand, we will always be forced to subsidise agriculture (because in Italy products come from abroad), and by subsidising agriculture will not suffice the resources, we will pay more taxes and continue, without the recognition of Made in Italy, to import from other nations, impoverishing our productions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u80	BERTUZZI (PD). Mr President, I rise to say that the Democratic Party does not agree with this representation of the agricultural sector. We're not in! [[Applause from the PD Group]] The agriculture and food sector has proved to be a driving force for this country's economy over the past few years. Made in Italy has become the most recognized brand in the world. This is the real guarantee of our products that lies in the quality that we are recognized abroad. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] True, we have been the country of methanol wine, but today we are the first exporters of wine in the world. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]] We are facing the challenge of milk traceability. No one's ever done this before. Our producers are still paying fines for other people's mistakes. Just bring our country into violation. For these reasons, our vote on this amendment will be against. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u81	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.12/1, tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u84	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am voting in favour of Amendment 5.12 and I ask Senator Candiani to be able to sign it. I would like to remind all Italian farmers that at the moment they are watching us that this is the government that is killing them and for which the president of Confagricoltura said: "we vote yes to the constitutional referendum". [[Protests from the PD Group]] Italian farmers will remember this at the time of the vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u87	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to remind Senator Bertuzzi that we need to understand what we are talking about. In fact, in all these years, even when others were in other places, the battle on which Italy has distinguished itself was precisely that of the origin of labelling. So no one here is denigrating our work, indeed, because it has been this battle, all these years, together with farmers and consumers, for the labelling and recognition of the origin that has enabled us to qualify our productions to the best. As far as the question of oil is concerned (as far as labelling is concerned, thanks to my amendment, which has been tabled many times ago), you know better than I what the problem is. Our brands were almost all bought by foreigners and you know it perfectly well. So the work we are trying to do with the amendments is to strengthen the elements of consumer knowledge and identification of origin. It cannot be enough that only the factory or the place of packaging is written down. We have always known what was the game made with oil, that is to get it from various places, even with the brands that the consumer thinks are Italian but that are no longer Italian, that pass through Spain and arrive here. And do we manage, in your opinion, by showing the place where the factory and the packaging site are located? No! We should all be united on this battle, as has been the case in the past, when these amendments were adopted by majority and opposition. It is not a question of battle against Europe; we must protect our productions and impose regulations that are more favourable. It is not a question of protectionism, because it would be good for all European products. Think about what could happen with respect to TTIP; don't we want to discuss it? If all European farmers - starting from the Italian battle too - forcefully and thoroughly imposed regulations with the aim of specifying the origin of the products, perhaps we would have the opportunity to protect our country, consumers and farmers. The battle for origin - perhaps it is worth remembering - is not to denigrate, but rather to enhance even more the productions. Italian wine has been made great by the battle of quality. [[Applause from Senator Council.]] From the battle for the recognition of the identity of our territory. We all know the issue of cheese; the traceability of milk is fine, but we have spent years - and we continue to pass them - not knowing where the semi-finished products used to make mozzarella come from. [[Comments of Senator Donno]] Or the regenerated milk. This also concerns cold cuts, ham and the composition of processed products. On this battle we should all be united in this House, because we cannot accept the most restrictive European regulations, and we even accept that we delete national rules, which are different and divergent from European ones. That's the thing. We know very well what the problems are, but we must have the courage to do this battle - I am also addressing the Deputy Minister and the representatives of the majority - because nothing happens. In fact, we all have to do it together. In this case, in fact, we are defending Italian farmers, Italian consumers and the prestige of our products. This is what we think needs to be done to trigger a real development process. We don't do demagogic operations and we explain to those who are listening to what we are actually talking about. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and FI-PdL XVII Groups and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u90	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I have listened carefully to what the Government said; in particular, it referred to the fact that it knows very well that the Italian product must be protected. Then he inserted a "but": however, we are part of a market, that if he tells us to throw ourselves down, we who are the Italian Government of the Democratic Party are throwing ourselves down. Then there was the colleague who referred to our excellences, to wine: I completely agree with her, who has done nothing but confirm everything that has been said, namely that we must protect our product. Also because - and I say this also as news maybe a bit 'from the bar - when we talk to people we pull a little 'and say that we have excellent food. But we have them because we have been able, over the years, to protect our product, which is being sought. There's one more thing to say. How do you search for our product? We need, in fact, the insertion of the place of production; and you have rejected it. There is, then, another possibility: we have to enter, at least, the origin of the main ingredients of the food; at least this, if you do not want to insert - because you rejected it - the origin of the place of production. At this point, let's agree: we can't just say, dear colleague of the Democratic Party, that Italy has the best product; who says that it doesn't, this best product? We all agree that Italy has the best product, but do we want to defend it yes or no? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rizzotti.]] So in order to defend it we must take positions and it is not that, since you are in the government, you say - as the representative of the Commission did - that we have to comply with the rules of the single market. The United Kingdom has done something very rational and said: because in this market there are things that are hurting us, my lords, I ask the citizens whether they want to stay or not in this market that is hurting us and the citizens have replied that they do not want to be there. In order not to get to that point, let's ensure that at least some regulations (this is the legislation) that protect our product are protected. Mr President, I would like to address the Government and ask whether or not it is appropriate to vote in favour of this amendment, which I would like to endorse if my colleague would allow me to do so. Otherwise, it is useless to start a speech and say that we know very well that we must protect our products, because this premise lapses if Amendment 5.12/1 is not adopted. There is little to do: do we want to defend him yes or no? We want to defend him, so I will vote in favour of Amendment 5.12/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u93	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, common sense would be enough, but there is obviously a majority political obstruction. Who's talking about methanol? Who's talking about damaged material? Who is talking about agriculture that is not doing its job? We are saying the exact opposite, namely that we expect from the measure under consideration that the Government through the inclusion of some provisions in the national legislation bend the European Union to bring in respect of our product made in Italy, to our excellences, and ensure that on the shelf the consumer can find a product recognizable in its real genuineness made in Italy. This is being asked and I remind the majority of those who may have a short memory, but I also say this with the pride of an opposition that opposed and won that battle a month and a half ago in this same Chamber. When you brought the draft European law to the House, if there had not been our opposition in Parliament, the Government would have had you adopt legislation that prevented Italian citizens and consumers from recognizing a product transformed in Italy by a product actually produced in Italy. That's what we stopped. You went back, you thought twice after we pointed him out, because if he was going, he had legs, but we stopped you. It is too easy for Minister Martina to go and make his beautiful appearances from Confagricoltura or Coldiretti, maybe go to Brenner with Coldiretti to open the trucks with pig legs from Germany, when instead in these classrooms brought normative changes that those thighs would just make them lawful in their false branding made in Italy. This is what we have prevented you from doing, whereas the bill provides precisely the opposite, that is, that you still want to do today. We ask you for the last time, after which people will be throwing their money in October, not to pursue these policies, to defend the Made in Italy. I also ask, and, Mr President, through your person, I address Senator Fedeli, for what reasons have you presented a bill for a new Italian quality brand when made in Italy already exists? Maybe you don't trust Made in Italy or maybe you don't think it's protecting enough anymore because you let yourself go on these issues? That's what we tell you not to do. Stop. And if the European Union means selling out our excellence in food and wine production, stop and, as the British have done, let's say that's enough. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u96	PIGNEDOLI (PD). Mr President, I believe that we must eliminate these tones of those who are friends and those who are enemies of the Italian agri-food system and be very concrete. Here we are working to increase food production, as there is a small detail to consider: we are not self-sufficient in any sector, we do not have a sector in which we are self-sufficient. I would like to remind you of the work that the current Minister is doing and I am sorry for the colleague who first made catastrophic judgments about this Government. I believe this is the first time that an executive has invested so much in encouraging production, networking producers and ensuring that farms become competitive in the world. It is the first government that really takes initiatives to have control systems throughout the supply chain. We are also a transformer manufacturer of products. We also have this part and the country must not be ashamed. We have excellencies. I come from a region where there are most DOC productions and quality certifications, but also great transformations and we must not be ashamed of this. We need to work gradually so that producers are increasingly able to market their products with the story and explanation of what's inside. At the same time, however, we must not even go against the large processing companies of the highest quality. This is made in Italy and I don't think we have to deal with it in these tones, which I absolutely think are demagogic. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Italy, alone, cannot go to Europe and throw its fist on the table, because so it would only do cinema, as they say. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In Europe we must find alliances and the Minister, whenever he goes to Brussels, has this task and does this job. In Europe we are the country that works most on labelling. I would therefore ask the House not to have this tone of opposition, because I do not believe that any of us are against Made in Italy agri-food. Every day we work so that younger people become producers, because today we are not self-sufficient. We must be concerned about this: having young people who enter agriculture, companies who earn income and are competitive without relying only on a word about a product and that there are producers who are entrepreneurs. We have challenged you over and over again and have voted against measures that sought to rebuild the agri-food system. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u99	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to say to Senator Pignedoli that - simply - it would be appropriate for us to know when we buy Parmesan cheese if, for example, it is produced in Hungary, perhaps also with the collaboration of someone who should protect, through the consortium, their producers who in Italy are struggling to maintain their production. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni]] I would like to say that in the Region of Senator Pignedoli there are small realities that are investing very much also on the selection of typical local animals and that are committed to the complete supply chain. I understand very well that there are, for example, large producers of ham who legitimately buy pork legs elsewhere and then work it and bring it to age in Langhirano. This is very true and it is legitimate. However, it is right that the consumer should be informed of all this in a transparent way, precisely because, Senator Pignedoli, it is right that those who make a different choice - I think of small companies with a certain culture, which may be recognized with less effort in large-scale productions - have the possibility to say where the product has been made in all its phases. I believe that this right must be recognised. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u102	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, if Amendment 5.12 creates a debate, perhaps because of its specifics, I propose, if necessary, to turn it into a good agenda, detailed and clear, to be included in an implementing decree of the European delegation law: in my opinion, this would move in a good direction. In the Committee on Industry, Commerce and Tourism we have gone further, because the Commission is already assigned the draft law that protects Made in Italy and establishes the brand "100 percent Italy" that surpasses this gap, because we know very well that the brand made in Italy can be affixed even in the case of packaging only in Italy. So, obviously something else is needed. Even from the perspective of the Transatlantic Partnership for Trade and Investment (TTIP), as has been said before, finding harmony and trying to give our lines in a better sense, could be not a limit, but a great opportunity for our country. As far as unemployment and imbalances are concerned, the more we protect and raise guarantees against unfair competition and the better we distribute wealth and promote the economy. It is very bad to say that we are not self-sufficient in anything, not even as far as our products are concerned: lately we are not self-sufficient and almost import people to work. This is a dramatic fact. What do we export instead? There are always two plates on the scale, balancing. I therefore believe that we need to intervene in the Industry, Trade and Tourism Commission, with the 100% Made in Italy bill. This would make so many speeches, which could be demagogic, a way of realizing concrete facts.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u103	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.12, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 5.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u106	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, obviously many of us, too, do not watch television. If the Consorzio del prosciutto di Parma advertises that Parma's ham is not raw, but is from Parma, it obviously wants to send a message, in the sense that when it comes to Parma's raw ham, it is specified that it is a ham from the Consorzio di Parma, with a discipline of Parma, while the raw ham is a so-called unmarked ham, so Polish thighs probably come, from animals fed with fish flour and therefore at a much lower price. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni.]] The citizen thinks that raw ham is always raw ham and that he pays even less, but when he tastes it does not have those sensory characteristics that have our ham. This is the result of unhealthy labelling, so much so that the Consortium is doing this kind of advertising. This is not for the producers, if it is true that in Italy we have lost about 400,000 sows and therefore we have a pig market in such serious difficulty that in the decree-law local authorities there are those who even sell the proposal to give it a contribution: then we will see the debate in this House in the next few days. This is only for the confindustria system and for all those who manage the transformations and slaughterhouses and of course it is not only for the ham and cold cuts market. For example, when you eat salami and you see Italian Salam written, you need to know that it is really enough that the main product is Italian and that it has 40 percent of Italian meat. Although the remaining 30 percent is Austrian meat and the other 30 German meat, however the salami will be Italian because the main component is Italian, although the sum of the products (i.e. 60 percent) is foreign. You could make a long list. We are talking about cheeses: it is true, those PDOs are the only ones that have Italian milk, even if I have been asking in this House for years - in a paranoid way, I dare say - to know how many cows in Italy produce milk. I would like to make a precise account and know how many cows produce milk in my area that becomes Grana Padano and how many cows that produce milk that becomes Parmesan Reggiano, counting the shapes that are marked: obviously there must be a dichotomy. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni]] It is the same dichotomy as Judge Giulia Proto when he says that European milk production is done with the sum of models L1; but when the number of cows is multiplied by the quantity of milk, it does not reach the same quantity. Therefore, it is clear that one steals, as it is equally evident that AGEA's Italian control system did not work. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni]] We've been fined 70 million, and I still haven't figured out who's gonna pay them, if the regions haven't checked out. But we will come back to this when we talk about the next local authority measure, in which we say exactly the things I said here a year ago; the same things that the courts of Brescia and Parma have disavowed, saying that you cannot charge 100 million fine when the fine is 30 million. I have been saying this for years and no one is right, except the TARs and the judicial authorities, showing that what I say in this House is perfectly true. I want to see if in a week, some Minister or Undersecretary will tell me that what I said last year was true, when I told you that to change the rules of the game are only the mobsters, and you told me that you die of the mob: to one who worked twenty-nine years in a morgue, who performed 2,500 autopsies! [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]] If you want to talk about agriculture, these are the elements that you are sinking. True, we are below 5 billion, because between import and export the Italian system imports 5 billion, but it is equally true that we could export more and better if we were really honest, if we were to tell the truth, because if we import cocoa or coffee from abroad, well come if I know what it is, if I drink the coffee of Costa Rica rather than of some other country. We must not be ashamed to tell the truth. How many ham legs do they return abroad as made in Italy? How many meats are there enough for an animal to be raised the last four months in Italy (on a year of life) to say that they are Italian meats? Let's be honest. This could be done directly, because Europe does not prohibit our industries from writing a full label, and instead they do not do so because they earn more, at the expense of those farmers who are closing the stables, who are hungry, because with 0.29 cents per litre of milk they do not survive. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]] Go tell it to the farmers of Mantua and Brescia in my area, who call me every day. That is the truth of labelling. When you eat a soft cheese that is not PDO, it is not Italian milk. We are at 70 of a production that is actually much lower because many L1 certificates do not correspond to Italian milk. So let's go and regulate the matter; let's go and make it clear how much Italian milk - since you talk about traceability - you work in those industries that then turn out to be Italian. And this is only to fatten Confindustria: this is the truth of our agriculture. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups and Senator Casaletto. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u109	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Senator Pignedoli has given us a glimpse of Italian positive entrepreneurship, but this does not mean that this is due to the Government or that the Government puts in a position to grow further our brave farmers who have converted the vineyards, who have converted the processing of wine, which have imposed themselves on the international markets. Its was more a propaganda intervention of farmers than an illustration of the government's merits. I would like to say to Senator Pignedoli that, when the Italian Government is not in a position to block the import of 45,000 tonnes of Tunisian olive oil into our market for two consecutive years or is not in a position to block some imports, not for protectionist purposes, but for the protection of quality, these are the measures that Parliament and the Government must take. On the one hand, the European Union requires us to import extra-Community products, and we are forced to do so. On the other, however, we are placing a stake on the defence of the quality of our products. Therefore, in the labels the Italian product must be certified as such, not only from the point of view of the place of manufacture, but also from the point of view of the place of production. It seems to me to be a form of self-protection which is absolutely compatible, both with European legislation and with the interests, which are pressing for us, of national agriculture. Do we have to suffer and are we not able to stop these phenomena because European legislation allows this type of activity and marketing? That's great, even if I'd say terrible. Unfortunately, though, that is the case. So let's do an action of contemperation and balancing through the defense of our product on the label. Let the consumer know, when he goes to the supermarket, from the label on the bottle, what is the oil produced and processed in Italy and what is the oil produced in Tunisia, or in other country, and bottled in Italy. Why all this scandal before this request, which seems absolutely legitimate to me, to defend our product? The same can be said for imported grains for milling and packaging pasta. Why not indicate on the label that one pasta is made with Italian wheat and another, instead, is made with Canadian wheat or wheat however extra-EU or non-Italian wheat? It really is not understandable why we refuse to give this counterweight to what, on the other hand, is the degradation of the national product resulting from imports of non-EU and non-Italian products. It should be the government's initiative to say: we have had to accept this release of products but we clearly balance it, in labelling, on how this product is used and on how, on the other hand, the national product is used. In terms of absolute calmness, it seems to me that this is the duty of the rulers. Don't the government want to do it? I hope Parliament will do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u112	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, the subject is very closely linked. I say this because today we heard undersecretary Gozi in the Commissions meeting 3rd and 14th on the Brexit affair. If the European Union is invited to European citizens, to European economic operators, to important parts of the European Union, options such as Brexit will be the only way to resolve the life problems of those economic and territorial systems. The break-up of the European Union will end up being the only solution we have before us and the populist movements going in that direction will have reasons on which to base their proposals for disintegration. The issue is very simple: we talk about having serious labelling that guarantees the consumer the possibility of buying what he thinks is right for his health and taste. This helps the productive capacity, the possibility of economic redemption and the overcoming of the crisis in which our poorest regions face the southern shore of the Mediterranean and the Mezzogiorno. It is not possible that, every time a question such as this arises, what prevails is the interest of some multinational economic potentates. [[Applause from Senator De Petris]] Because then we end up laying the foundations for the destruction of what we have created positive all together looking towards Europe. Unity does not mean the suppression of identities; it means the valorization of identities, aware that we are also different, that we produce in a different way and that we also have a different culture of taste. I believe that, sometimes, recognizing mistakes and recognizing that we have moved too far in a direction that does not protect the interests of our people serves to save the consensus for democratic and progressive culture for a deployment of the future. You don't have to perch. It's wrong to perch. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u114	Senator Zuffada, your group has run out of time. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u115	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). I speak very briefly. For my work as a veterinarian, I have followed in particular the industry and breeding of dairy cattle and pig production. Mr Gaetti is right in saying that these sectors are experiencing considerable difficulties. A mistake has been made in the past years with a responsibility on the part of all. The processing and large-scale distribution industries have been largely sold to multinationals whose interests do not coincide, whether they are willing or not, with local production. Our farmers of both milk and meat have made great sacrifices. My colleague in the PD is right when she says that they have had improvements in product quality. Unfortunately these high quality products are becoming niche. It is about defending the interests of one another and choosing. If we are to defend the interests of our latest dairy and pig production producers, we must take advantage of the measure that we are now examining. I agree with Mr Martina, whom I know personally from my experience at the Regional Council, that he has tried to improve, as far as possible, the defence of our products, but on this point one must choose: one is on the side of producers or on the side of the interests of processors and large retailers. That is the crux of the problem. Politics must choose, otherwise they are great words and we find ourselves next year with the price of milk which, instead of being 29 cents, will have dropped to 25 cents and with the price of the pig product increasingly lower. As a result, our farmers will close the stables and close the pig farms. We will have to import more and more - because we are not self-sufficient - the thighs from Germany and the products from Eastern Europe, which do not have our own characteristics, but to defend ourselves we must use legal weapons. That is one of them; I hope that Parliament will use it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u118	WRITER IN TOR (AP) (NCD-UDC). Mr. President, I'm a little embarrassed. In Italy we are self-sufficient on three products: wine, tomato and rice. We import, on average, 40% of all grains, 80% of hazelnuts and nuts (and we have Ferrero) and I could continue with the list. Let's talk about ham. In Italy we produce 11 million pigs; two thighs per pig, make 22 million ham. We are not able to meet our demand for ham production and processing. And we could move on. We need to get our feet on the ground. Our country has "x" square kilometers and more than so much grain is not able to produce; it has "x" square kilometers and more than so much wine is not able to produce. We're making fun of each other. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]] We are the country that has the most PDO and PGI in Europe and everyone wants to copy us. Why are they copying us? Because we're good. Those PDOs and those disciplinary ones that are inside the PDOs hold our made in Italy agri-food; and they are disciplinary - I assure you - all iron and respect all the Christs. So why don't we commit ourselves to making those disciplinary and consortiums grow more? Look, it's not true that the milk is paid 0.29 or 0.30 cents. I'll explain. 50% of the milk, which is inside the Grana Padano chain (I can make you the list of dairy farms), is paid 0.46 or 0.50 cents, because it is inside the supply chain. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), PD and Senator Formigoni.]] We must ensure that our farmers and our agricultural world become a supply chain in order to be able to stand. Let us not mock ourselves; this is the truth. So we need to make the world of agriculture grow, and we need to make it work together. Even on olive oil, beyond the years, we produce 250,000-300,000 tons; we consume and sell 700,000. What are we talking about? Of the 40,000 tons we did not import from Tunisia, why did he go to Spain? So we don't say things that aren't there. As for the labels, if one goes to the supermarket today, he sees the extra virgin olive oil DOP Italian, as he sees the EU. So the citizen, the consumer today can choose. We must clearly do more work and commit ourselves more; but let us not make fun of ourselves, because demagogy is no use to our system. [[Applause from the AP Groups (NCD-UDC), PD and Senators Buemi and Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u120	Senator Candiani, I remind you that your Group has run out of time; I therefore allow you to make only a brief speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u121	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we will vote in favour of all the amendments that really protect Made in Italy. You choose whether to vote against these amendments; we will always vote in favour. I remind Senator Dalla Tor that the concept is another and is very different. It is not that it is necessary to allow more pig legs to be imported into Italy, so that they are sold more as made in Italy when they are not produced in Italy. Agriculture must be supported, so that more pigs are produced in Italy, made by Italian farmers. The problem in Italy today is that agriculture is no longer able to produce enough, because it costs too much to produce in Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u122	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 5.14 tabled by Senators Candiani and Mauro Giovanni, until the words "for products" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.16 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.17, tabled by Senators Candiani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.15 tabled by Senators Candiani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.19, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.21, tabled by Senators Candiani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.22, tabled by Senators Candiani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.26, tabled by Senators Candiani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.28, tabled by Senators Candiani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.29, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G5.100 and G5.101 will not be put to the vote. Senator Candiani, on the agenda for the meeting, Mr G5.102, had an opinion against the report. Are you insisting on the vote? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.102, tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Donno, on the agenda for the debate, Mr G5.103, had an opinion against the report. Are you insisting on the vote? WOMAN (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u125	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, the G5.103 agenda, which I have presented, commits the Government - I read - to examine the possibility of promoting the introduction of specific provisions in the areas of competence to establish that the words "made in Italy" placed on the label can only be attributed to finished products, whose raw materials are produced within the Italian territory, and which are produced and processed at all stages of their production chain, from the first producer to the consumer, within the national territory to ensure their certification and traceability. I would like to draw attention to this last part of my agenda. I used to hear Senators Bertuzzi and Pignedoli, who are part of the Committee on Agriculture and who, with heat, said that they are for Made in Italy and for its protection, and also the Government says that it is in favour of the protection of Made in Italy, the traceability of food and production plants. But then you explain to me why, when these agendas come forward, you refuse them? Give me a good reason, because I don't understand it, but maybe you don't understand it either. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u126	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.103, tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Donno, on the agenda, Mr G5104 was given a favourable opinion if the proposed reformulation that had been proposed to you were accepted. WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, may I listen again to the proposal for a rewording? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Would the rapporteur like to clarify to Senator Donno what point he is asking for reformulation on?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u127	Mr President, in the context of the discussions, we are calling for the words 'fisheries' to be eliminated.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u128	Senator Donno, do you accept the proposed reformulation? WOMAN (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G5.104 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u130	You have the right to do so. I would remind you that your Group has run out of time, so I would ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u131	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, today I have seen a number of considerations which I believe have made clear to the Italians, to the whole country, that this Government is not up to the task of resolving the problems of agriculture. When you do not agree to specify on the label where the production takes place, you cannot fill your mouth talking about the pride of Made in Italy, since we do not guarantee its quality through a specification on the label of the place where the production took place. It is really a damage to Italian agriculture. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Senator Amidei shows a bottle of olive oil and rests it on government benches. Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u132	Senator Amidei, I'm gonna call you back to order and I'm gonna ask the assistants to step in. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 7, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views. 18.13 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u133	Madam President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u134	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u135	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senators Candiani and Mauro Giovanni, up to the words "the following": (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 7.2 to 7.5 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.6, tabled by Senators Candiani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.7, tabled by Senator Liuzzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.8, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.9 tabled by Senator Uras and other senators, identical to amendment 7.10 tabled by Senators Cotti and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.11, tabled by Senators Candiani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.12, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.13, tabled by Senators Cotti and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.15, tabled by Senator Liuzzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.18, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators, identical to amendment 7.19, tabled by Senators Cotti and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.21, tabled by Senators Cotti and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.23, tabled by Senators Cotti and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.25, tabled by Senators Cotti and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.26, tabled by Senator Liuzzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.28, tabled by Senators Cotti and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.29, tabled by Senators Cotti and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.31, tabled by Senators Cotti and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.32, tabled by Senators Candiani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.33, tabled by Senators Candiani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.34, tabled by Senators Cotti and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.35, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators, identical to amendment 7.36, tabled by Senators Cotti and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.37, tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.38, tabled by Senators Cotti and Montevecchi, essentially identical to amendment 7.39, tabled by Senator Uras and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 8, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u136	Madam President, I am opposed to all the amendments to Rule 8 and to the G8.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u137	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u138	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator Liuzzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.10 tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.2, tabled by Senators Council and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.3, tabled by Senators Council and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.4, tabled by Senators Council and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.5, tabled by Senators Council and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.6 tabled by Senators Council and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.7, tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.8, tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.9, tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G8.100 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u139	Madam President, I am against all the amendments to Article 9.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u140	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u141	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.1, tabled by the Senators Council and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.3, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 9.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.4, tabled by Senators Council and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.5, tabled by Senators Council and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.6 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.7 tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 10, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u142	Madam President, I am against all the amendments. On agendas G10.100, G10.101 and G10.102 I give a favourable opinion, rewording the latter by inserting, after the words "the Government" in the words "they" to assess the appropriateness of "the government."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u143	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u144	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.1 tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.2, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u147	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, we also call for greater transparency because we are talking about the Committee on macro-prudential policies and the avoidance of systemic risks. We have seen what has happened in recent years. We're chasing the banking system somehow, and we still haven't figured out who the blame is, since everyone's running. We therefore call for this authority to be truly independent and for precise rules on how to make choices and assessments. I therefore call for the House to vote in favour of Amendment 10.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u150	TREMONTI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, Senators, I believe that, in the interests of our country, this article should not be voted on. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is the reply to the incident which was already evident in this House at the time of the bail in. It is not the same, but it is within the same logic and philosophy. I really think it is very prudent and appropriate not to vote on this rule and postpone it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u151	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.3 tabled by Senators Bottici and Castaldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.4 tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.5 tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.6, tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.7, tabled by Senator Molinari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.8, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u154	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, as Senator Tremonti has just said, we are in the hands of an independent committee on macro-prudential policy choices. I do not know how many of you have actually read this provision, which also refers to Recommendation ESRB/2011/3, which, moreover, was to be transposed by 30 June 2013 and, therefore, we are three years late. I'm reporting this to tell you something's not working. The Committee will have the power to send the recommendations to the Member States - that is to say to us - on how to act in the situations in which we find ourselves. As has been mentioned, when last year we spoke here about bail in, the theme was taken under the leg, almost to say that much, then, somehow we would have done it. Today, it cannot be argued that sooner or later, we will try to avoid the deadlines that Europe is asking of us. I really urge you not to vote on this article and to delete it, because it is very dangerous. We have a Europe that, today as it is today, risks imploding, because Brexit is only the first case of a state that does not want to be part of it. Within the next few months there will be other Member States going to elections. We risk doing things with Europe and, next year, not having Europe and not knowing where to put our hands anymore; not just for what you have been doing over the last three years, because it has been decided to do this Europe since 1992. The point is that next year we are in real danger of no longer having a European Union, but a lot of treaties, conditions and committees, which will still put their mouths in our business. Since no one has asked the citizens to enter Europe and, today as today, many European citizens are refusing to be in this European system, please reason, because there is a point of no return, which is the implosion of Europe. Then I hope that what happens in the rest of the world, with wars, will not happen. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u155	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.9, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 10.11 is impervious. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G10.100, G10.101 and G10.102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u158	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I rise to understand if I have understood correctly the rewording of the Commission's G10.102 (text 2) agenda. The rapporteur has reworded it, inserting in the commitment to the Government the formula "to evaluate the opportunity of "." Is that correct? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's correct. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I do not know what assessment can be made, but I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention to what the Government was committed to doing. According to the original wording, the agenda committed the Government to provide that the macro-prudential policy committee compiles annually information showing the soundness of all banking and financial institutions operating on national territory, in accordance with the following guiding principles and criteria. The text follows the list of guiding principles and criteria. But hell, with what is happening and what we are experiencing, with uncertainties, concerns and anxieties about the banks that we are experiencing, do we want to give some certainty to our fellow citizens? If on the reworded agenda you tell me that the Government is committed to assessing the opportunity for the government, do you tell me what you are doing and what certainties you give to the citizens? It is already an agenda, and then you also downplay the commitment and insert the formula "to assess the appropriateness of "to" with reference to the compilation of a list to see whether the credit institutions are solid or not. Are you kidding me? President, representative of the Government, rapporteur, give some thought! Again, are you kidding me? [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u159	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u161	I shall cancel the voting procedure. Senator Candiani, your Group has run out of time: however, you have the right to speak for a brief explanation of vote on the article.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u162	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we shall vote against this article because you have already made a disaster here once with the approval of the bail in and we will not be your accomplices in this situation. Make time to be careful; it's called the macro-prudential committee. Amendment proposals have been made and you have rejected them. We have asked for the agenda to be amended but you have not listened to us. At this point, all we have to do is face up to your responsibilities. We will vote strongly against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u163	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 11, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u164	Madam President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 11.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u165	Madam President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u166	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 11.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. URAS (Mixed). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.2, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.3 tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 11.4 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, until the words'make changes'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 11.5 to 11.11. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.12 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 11.13, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, up to the words "the power". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 11.14 and 11.15 are therefore not included. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 12, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u167	Madam President, I am against all the amendments tabled to Rule 12, while the opinion is in favour of the G12.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u168	Madam President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u169	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.1, tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 12.3 is impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 12.4 tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco, until the words "comma 9" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 12.5 are therefore excluded. Having been accepted by the Government, the G12.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 13, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u170	Madam President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u171	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u172	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.1 tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 14, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u173	Madam President, the opinion is against all the amendments relating to Article 14. The opinion was in favour of the G14,100 and G14,101 agendas. The opinion was also in favour of the G14.102 agenda with the following rewording:
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u174	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u175	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.1, tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.2, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.3, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.4 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.5 tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.6 tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.7 tabled by Senator Molinari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 14.8 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.8 tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 14.9 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, until the words "to the product" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 14.10 and 14.11. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.12, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.13, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.14, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.15, tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G14.100 and G14.101 will not be put to the vote. I would ask those present whether they accept the proposal to reformulate the G14.102 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u176	Madam President, we do not accept it, because the initiatives must not be evaluated, but implemented. I repeat the speech I made earlier: serious commitments are made and they are implemented, otherwise voted against and you say no. We therefore insist on voting on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u177	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G14.102, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 15, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u178	Madam President, I would like to ask for a moment's attention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is As an act of courtesy, Senator Caliendo, has the right to speak for a minute because his Group has run out of time. The amendment seeks to save family trusts for children and disabled people. Point (d) to number 3 applies only to trusts expressed. The following number 5 refers to service providers related to companies or trusts, other than subject professionals. The Directive, in Article 3 (7), expressly defines the provider of services relating to companies or trusts as the entity providing them on a professional basis, while in the law it delegates this there is no such person. Mr. Deputy Minister, the difficulty of interpretation leads to the need for intervention, because otherwise a family trust will not be possible. Amendment 15.6 is linked to this. I would ask that the delegation make express use of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u179	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u180	Madam President, I am against the amendments tabled to Rule 15.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u181	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur. In drawing up the implementing decree we will take into account the concerns raised by Senator Caliendo. Amendment 15.6 could have become the subject of an agenda, which we would have given a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u184	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I withdraw Amendments 15.4 and 15.6 and turn them into agendas. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agendas of the G15.4 and G15.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u185	Madam President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u186	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u187	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.1. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.1, tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As the G15.4 agenda has been accepted by the Government, it will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.2 tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.3 tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 15.5 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.5 tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G15.6 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.7 tabled by Senator Molinari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 16, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u188	Madam President, I am against the amendments tabled to Rule 16.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u189	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u190	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16.1. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.1, tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.2 tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 17, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u191	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u192	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u193	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 17.1. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.1, tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.2 tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 18, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u194	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u195	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u196	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.1. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.1, tabled by Senators Crosio and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 18.2 tabled by Senators Crosio and Candiani, up to the words "the ships". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 18.3. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.7 tabled by Senators Crosio and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.8, tabled by Senators Crosio and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 18.9 tabled by Senators Crosio and Candiani, up to the word "intervening". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 18.10. are therefore excluded. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 19, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u197	Madam President, I am against all the amendments to Rule 19 and the G19.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u198	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u199	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 19.1. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.1, tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 19.2 tabled by Senator Molinari and other senators, up to the words "condemnation." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 19.3. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.4 tabled by Senator Molinari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.5 tabled by Senator Molinari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.6 tabled by Senator Molinari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.7 tabled by Senator Molinari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.8 tabled by Senators Candiani and Stefani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.9 tabled by Senator Molinari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.10 tabled by Senator Molinari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Candiani, the rapporteur and the representative of the Government gave an opinion against the agenda. Are you insisting on the vote? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). No, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 20, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u200	Madam President, with Article 20 we come to the pernicious issue of the management of copyright and related rights and the granting of multi-territorial licences for rights in musical works for online use in the internal market. In our view, the crux of the matter is that, contrary to the provisions of European Directive No 26 of 2014, which this measure intends to transpose, in the text in our examination in fact we continue to maintain and grant a monopoly to SIAE (the Italian Society for Authors and Publishers) which it enjoys for seventy-five years. So those who have followed the events of SIAE know that it is a body that, over the years, has had many problems in the budget, in the police station and in the lack of transparency in management. It is true that recently there has been a change in leadership and that the current president of SIAE has also come to the Committee culture to illustrate what should be a new course of more virtuous management of the organism. Nevertheless, we believe that we must overcome this state of affairs. [[Brusio]] AIROLA (M5S). Excuse me, ma'am, but there's such a mess that you can't hear anything! Montevecchi (M5S). We also think that, in accordance with what is written in the European directive, we must proceed on the road to liberalising the management of copyright and related rights. Among other things, a deal assigned to the Senate was also examined in the 7th Commission and guidelines were given. Now, in view of the fact that only Italy and the Czech Republic remain in Europe to have a monopoly still in place with regard to the management of copyright and related rights, and given that the directive calls on the Member States to abandon this path and to go along that of liberalisation, we have tabled some amendments to remind the Government of what is written in the directive itself and to call it to reflect on the current text of the law. It certainly does not go - in our view - in the direction of the indications and guidelines contained in this directive, which are liberalisation and also greater transparency. I am referring to an amendment by Senator Crimi on 20.30, which calls for greater transparency of the management bodies, or to Amendment 20.24, which is always signed by Senator Crimi and which I have always convincedly signed, which calls for a guarantee that the revenue of the management bodies should be used again for the distribution of copyrights and should not take other ways, as unfortunately happened in a little and less recent past. Now, I hope that the Government will take these proposals seriously, because not taking into account the changes we are proposing is misleading the spirit of what is written in the European directive and not complying with it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u201	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u202	Madam President, I am against all the amendments and agendas tabled in Rule 20, with the exception of the following agendas: G20.100, identical to the 14th agenda. Commission first signed by Mr Montevecchi, and the G20.101 agenda, identical to the agenda, presented by Senator Ichino and other senators, which was approved in 14th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u203	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur. I would like to take this opportunity to explain the government's position on the point raised by Senator Montevecchi and to make a statement on the agenda that Senator Ichino and others have presented to the Commission. First of all, I would like to mention the legal framework in which we move, the commitments that the Government takes with the two agendas on which it gives a favourable opinion and the path that, in cooperation and with the good work that we have done in the Senate with the various senators, we can follow. It is, Senator Montevecchi, a directive on collective management of copyright. It is a directive linked to the internal market. The legal bases - you have not mentioned them, but I believe that, in order to help the debate, they must be remembered - of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, namely Articles 50, 53 and 62, are in fact connected with the internal market. The objectives of the Directive and the obligations incumbent on Member States are to remove barriers, barriers, prohibitions and restrictions, as well as to limit discrimination based on the nationality, place of establishment or residence of the right-holder or right-management body. These are the first objectives that we, by implementing the directive, achieve. These represent the obligation of the directive. The obligation arising from the Directive is also to increase the transparency and efficiency of bodies which, freely, each Member State indicates as operators of collective rights. From this point of view too, thanks not only to the directive, but also to the two agendas, the one on your own initiative and the one submitted to the Commission by Senator Ichino and other senators, we are heading in exactly this direction. I would particularly like to thank Senator Ichino and all the signatories. because the agenda allows us to work in two stages. The first is the transposition of the directive, which does not require internal liberalisation. Internal liberalisation is a legitimate objective, but, Senator, the directive does not oblige us to do so and, therefore, when transposing the directive, the government does not assume the obligation indicated by you, because it is not provided for in the directive linked to the internal market. However, it is certainly possible to set such an objective and it is precisely by pursuing it that we have already undertaken, in the drafting of the implementing decree, the commitments to include mechanisms and procedures enabling rightholders and users to notify the Competition Authority and the market of comments aimed at improving the way in which the Directive is transposed. We have also undertaken to carry out further research, in addition to what is already provided for in this measure, on the results achieved in terms of transparency and efficiency. This is an objective that both you and the Government intend to pursue through the adoption of this law. The Government then undertakes to assess whether, in a second phase, it will move towards greater openness, as requested by the presenters of the agenda, in the light of various aspects. The first is the opinion of the Competition and Market Authority, which has been the basis of parliamentary work. But not only that: the expert group, as provided for in the Directive in Article 41, is responsible for carrying out the evaluation at the end of the first phase of transposition of the Directive, to see if and how to proceed towards the desired direction. Finally, I would like to recall the good practices of the other Member States. These are the commitments we have made at the time when the implementing decree is being drawn up - it is the first commitment on the G20.101 agenda, identical to that proposed in the Commission by Senator Ichino and other senators - and at the time when, in the second phase, the evaluation of the system will be carried out, in order to verify what has been improved in terms of transparency and efficiency, taking full account of the work of the Commission's expert group and also in the light of the opinion of the Competition Authority and the market. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u204	Colleagues, lower your voice, because it is not possible to discuss a measure in this context.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u205	Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Thank you, President. In the same spirit, we welcome the other agenda, identical to that presented to the Commission by Senators Montevecchi and Crimi, precisely to consider the opportunity to gradually promote the autonomous management of copyright, including creative commons licences. We are therefore opening a phase which seems to me to be very constructive, the result of a very productive work carried out in the Commission, which I hope will be confirmed in this House, which provides for full cooperation, and not only in the drafting of the implementing decree, but also in the evaluation of the opening of a second phase which is absolutely possible, in the light of the assessments of the Guarantee Authority, the expert group and the best practices of the Member States, in the implementation of the directive.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u206	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u208	Cotti (M5S). Madam President, I would like to point out that we are faced with a situation that I have never seen in the Senate: I mean that the rapporteur and the government have expressed a negative opinion on all the amendments and a favourable opinion on an agenda which basically states the same things as the amendments. If, as the rapporteur and the representative of the Government ask, all the amendments are rejected, we will be able to adopt a text which, for example, does not provide for liberalisation and an agenda which states exactly the opposite. Since this is already a draft law, and therefore the amendments are also a kind of strengthened agenda, in this case the Government and the rapporteur, in making those opinions, are making fun of us, because we approve a text and then an agenda that states exactly the opposite. So we don't know what's coming out of this House. I therefore call on the rapporteur and the Government to give a favourable opinion on the amendments or to give an opinion against the G20.100 agenda and, above all, G20.101, which clearly provide for indications contrary to what would result from the text of the article without amendments adopted. So, I repeat, you're making fun of us.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u209	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 20.1. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.1, tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). Invitation to extract the cards of the not present. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.2 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.6 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 20.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 20.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u210	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u212	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, of course, the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of this amendment and I would like to take the opportunity to speak to Mr Gozi again on this point. It is true that EU Directive No 26 of 2014 states that rightholders have the right to authorise a collective management organisation of their choice to manage the rights, categories of rights, or types of works and other protected materials of their choice for the territories of their choice, irrespective of the Member State of nationality, residence or establishment of the collective management organisation of the right holder. However, it is also true that the legislator is delegated to liberalise the exercise of copyright mediation activities, thus promoting the birth and development of new collective management organisations, supporting the right holders to freely choose the collective management organisation, on the basis of the rules for free competition. It is therefore true that it is not written, that there is no duty, but it is implicit that the directive directs the Government to liberalise the management of these rights under the rules of free competition.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u213	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 20.7 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, up to the words 'their interest'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 20.9 to 20.11. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 20.8 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.8, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 20.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 20.12, tabled by Senator Candiani, until the word "accertare" is used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 20.13. Let us move on to Amendment 20.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.16, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.17, tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 20.18, tabled by Senator Candiani, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 20.19 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.20 tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.21, tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.22, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.24, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.24, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.25, tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators, identical to amendment 20.26, tabled by Senators Crosio and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.27, tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 20.28, tabled by Senators Crosio and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.30 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.29 tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.31 tabled by Senator Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.32, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.32 tabled by Senator Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.33, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.33, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.34, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.34, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 20.35, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.35 tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 20.38 is impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.39, tabled by Senators Crosio and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Amidei and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 20.40. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.41 tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.42 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 20.43, which is identical to Amendment 20.44, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.43, tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators, identical to amendment 20.44, tabled by Senators Crosio and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.45, tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 20.46, tabled by Senators Crosio and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.47, tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators, identical to amendment 20.48, tabled by Senators Crosio and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.49, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.51 tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G20.100 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u214	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u216	ICHINO (PD). Madam President, having been the first signatory to the agenda in the Commission, which is now identified as G20.101, given its importance, which was also underlined by the representative of the Government, as well as by the rapporteur, I would ask that it be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is As an agenda presented by the Commission, I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to request the vote. ROMANO, rapporteur. Madam President, I would ask for the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u217	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on the G20.101 agenda presented by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Liuzzi, do you insist on voting on the agenda G20.102? LIUZZI (CoR). I do not insist, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, do you insist on voting on the agenda G20.103? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G20.103, presented by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Candiani, do you insist on voting on the agenda G20.104? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G20.104, presented by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 21. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u218	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u220	LIUZZI (CoR). Madam President, the debate has been long enough, perhaps also characterised by controversial tones. The European delegation bill is a measure of harmonisation between national law and European directives. In essence, the 2016 delegation measure transposes as many as 12 European directives, a recommendation from the European Systemic Risk Board, a Framework Decision, 13 European regulations and two regulatory directives. We understand, therefore, the complexity of the matter, but first of all we understand the work that the Government has done and must do in its headquarters, namely in Brussels. I believe that this bill could have deserved a more cohesive and engaging vote where there had been more openings on the part of the government. We have witnessed, at least as far as the proposals put forward by the Conservatives and Reformists are concerned, a fairly clear closure. One of our agendas has been accepted, but on the other hand, the Government's judgment has been largely closing, almost a screenplay, as well as the vote and judgment of the majority. Let us return to the arguments that have seen the House liven up, namely the defence of Made in Italy, which we wanted to protect through the introduction of methods of a computerized, telematic nature, in order to be able to have the assurance of the goodness of our products, both in the agri-food sector and in the packaging sector. We listened from the majority to a peana against the Made in Italy for which everything is fine. Our Made in Italy is certainly a very appreciated brand abroad, but we do not think it is enough, otherwise our agriculture would have produced many other incomes and more important satisfactions for the operators. And that says a lot about the quality of work done at national level and in European fora. We therefore declare an abstention vote which certainly takes account of certain obligations that Europe imposes on us. Of course, these are obligations to which we must submit, but - I repeat - as far as we are concerned, greater openness, especially in the area of the exploitation and protection of our productions, would perhaps have allowed us to vote in favour. [[Applause from Senator Bruni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u221	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u223	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, in the end we have reached this new episode of the European delegation law. And what surprises us is the extraordinary indifference to what is happening outside this House. We have today approved - indeed, you have approved, because you have voted in favour of things that we do not agree with - the transposition of European legislation ranging from trade in building materials to the type of petrol, rather than how food products and regulations concerning corruption should be labelled, rather, still, than regulations concerning Italian citizens in relations with other countries or banking matters. So we would not have been sorry for the government to think seriously about what it meant and it is meaning membership of the European Union as far as banking matters are concerned. Madam President, perhaps some of my colleagues would have missed, during these votes, that in the last few days and hours outside there have been stress tests, tests, from which it appears a scenario that is far from homogeneous and easy with regard to credit and finance; a scenario that describes a Europe that has lost contact with that Europe of the peoples who, in the spirit of the founding fathers of the post-war period, had the will to create a great opportunity for peace, freedom and trade. Today Europe is a great opportunity for speculation, finance and the usurpation of the democratic right of peoples. Madam President, Britain has been so harshly criticized in recent days, by a few Solones and many self-appointed allologists who attend government television studies, for a referendum; a word that now appears to us frequently: referendums, which we hear and will talk about in the autumn. But what referendum did the citizens of Britain hold? It is a referendum to decide on their fate, which has a parallel with the same method by which Britain decided to participate in the European Union forty-two years ago. In fact, the citizens of Britain decided to join the European Union through a popular referendum. And through a popular referendum they have chosen to leave the European Union, and not already from Europe. As some very careful commentators have noted, are we sure that Britain has left Europe? Or was it the European Union that emerged from Europe as a historical and cultural entity, in which Britain remained instead? This is a question and a point that goes far beyond simply transposing legislation, directives and bureaucracy, as you have also done today. If reforms are needed in this country, they must tend to give our citizens less bureaucracy, less suffocating Europe. This is what we would have liked from the law on the European Union and to delegate to the Government to transpose the European directives. On the other hand, we have, once again, a mere bureaucratic transposition that abstracts itself from what is happening outside. Europe loses Britain. For the European institutions, none of us voted: no citizen voted to have Juncker directing the European Commission; no citizen voted to have governing bodies that make laws or define European policies such as the European Council; no Italian citizen can and could vote in a referendum on the participation of Italy or, less, in the European Union. This is the difference in fundamental democracy which unfortunately distinguishes Italy from Great Britain in negative. Outside, what's going on? Britain goes out and Turkey - a country for which this same Government, when it had the Presidency in office, engaged a session of the European Parliament to discuss its entry into Europe - is now crushing the internal political opposition, in the deafening silence of our own Government and other European institutions. Then I ask myself and ask you: what is the point of participating in this way of being Europe and simply absorbing bureaucratic definitions that define the ways in which a product should be labelled? The government loses sight of - and perhaps does so in a sense - the defense of our own made in Italy and bends to bureaucratic definitions that benefit trade, and not production, in a Europe that wants less and less the distinction of the quality of the products made in Italy than the poor ones of other European countries, simply to make their commercial predispositions easier. We don't like this Europe. The least we are pleased with is the government's silence-consent with regard to the criticisms made punctually with the amendments tabled by the opposition. Mr Gozi, we had hoped for a reflection on Article 10, which concerns, once again, the European banking and financial system, which we had already referred to as a weak point in previous resolutions in the Commission. We had hoped for a reflection on a wrong method such as bail in, because applied in a country that did not have and does not have a banking structure to support that type of risk. In the face of all this, you pulled straight. You have done so with the bail at the time and today with the vote on Article 10, which defines the absurd ways of defining the risk of credit institutions. And you rejected our agenda, which simply asked the government to produce, at least once a year, a clear and precise list in which the risk limits of banking institutions were identified. You rejected him. Why did you do that? What is the reason why you are on the side of bankers and not citizens? Give an answer to this question: why are you still with the bankers? Why are you with a Europe that wants to take away the right to vote for its citizens? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, finish. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I shall finish. Don't be upset if I'm asking some uncomfortable questions to a government that you support. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't have a bad one. I only apply the rules and the time at your disposal is about to end. I think you've had a chance to express your opinion. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Even if it interrupts me, I will continue to ask the same question: why is the government on the side of finance and bankers who crush citizens? Why does the Government want a change in the Constitution that prevents citizens from voting on the European Union? Why does the government want a Senate that can no longer be elected by citizens? These are the questions you need to answer. There is a symmetry between your European policy and the will, which you are pursuing with the amendment of the Constitution, to take away the possibility for citizens to choose their future. And we say no to this way of doing it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u224	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u226	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Community law, because of its importance in the daily lives of our citizens, would not deserve such a poor debate and such a distracting and even somewhat provocative attitude on the part of the Government, which simply does not give the answers that, with our questions, we urge on absolutely nodal points. Today we have seen a Government, in the person of the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, not being able to say anything and not being able to give any sign of the decisions taken regarding issues that are absolutely fundamental, that are living flesh in our country, that are daily concern. How can you escape that in these days and for several months our squares are crowded by demonstrations of farmers from various sectors, of the cereal sector, of the fruit and vegetable sector, of the orthovivaism? How can you not be aware that the positions we take in this House, for example the defence of Italian quality and consumer health, are not an instrumental attitude of those who want to oppose the Government and oppose it? We want to bring here, we want to make law, we want the present concerns of our agricultural world to become a perspective and we want to see the future. How can you not understand at all? Senator Bertuzzi of the PD today has even been shrugged with comic statements that have provoked almost a standing ovation. How do you respond with slogans to problems that are daily concern, are distress, are the prospect of closure for an essential sector of our country? You see, this really starts to worry us. At first, undersecretary Gozi referred to what previous governments had done and what his government had found inherited. We are now in the third year of PD-led governments and I do not think that we can call on others' responsibilities anymore. It is a period of time in which we must say what has taken place in order to overcome the crisis conditions. Today - and I must say this with absolute intellectual honesty - we are here to discuss and propose to the attention of the Government, Parliament and the country a situation, with regard to our relations and our Community policies, of absolute degradation and worsening. At the moment I am speaking, the categories of the agricultural world are alarmed and in a state of agitation, with their representations, from Confagricoltura to Coldiretti, all in a cross-cutting way, because the problem is there and is alive, it is not seen from a biased perspective. I am also thinking of the world of fisheries and the world of industry. You put the question of trust in ILVA. In a country that has had to quit chemistry, that has had to quit metallurgy, that sees transferring its mechanics abroad, what do you imagine Italians should eat in the future? What work, what profession will Italians have to practice in this country, if today you do not give a helping hand and you do not take firm positions and attitudes, of absolute support to our agriculture? But what do you think we should live on? [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] Or must we believe that, behind the Renzi Government, there is that system of powers, that European system and perhaps even world system that represents Italy as a large consumer market, a market of 60 million inhabitants who must consume and do the least noble work in the construction of the European people? Why do you take such an absolutely supine attitude? How come the verb of your action doesn't become the needs of citizens? But do we only realize that we are moving from the field of productive activities to that of services? Are we the only ones who notice the rows of accountants or small savers behind the banks? What about you, your policies? And again, do we only notice it, or do you only let it come out when there are striking facts, that this morning another 1,200 immigrants arrived on our shores? With this summer heat we cannot meet even the hygienic requirements, we cannot even respond to our sense of civilization and humanity, which we would also like to be able to support with adequate means to help the poor people who arrive in these conditions on our coasts. You failed. Today, intellectual honesty is needed, Mr. Undersecretary, instead of climbing with answers. I understand that Minister Martina, when he goes around Italy, is more committed to dealing with the internal current of his party than to developing the actions of his ministry. I saw him arrive in Sicily at a time when there were fishermen, farmers and producers in great turmoil, yet he only had time to go to a four-hour meeting and found the internal current in the Democratic Party. By now you have become men of the Palace and you have completely lost your relationship with the people. If this does not kill our country's prospects at this historic moment, we might also enjoy it, but this absolute irresponsibility of yours with respect to the needs really upsets us and puts us in the position of not being able to grant you, even in terms of European policies, the benevolence that we use in foreign policy. In fact, as far as Community policies are concerned, you can't stand back, you can't take battles to the end. A short time ago, the Undersecretary said that there was no fault on the part of Italy: we must find the points of mediation within the common market. Of course, now after Brexit you can't even say: we are building the Europe of peoples, we are building the perspective, democratic participation. No, because the choice you have made now is to return to the Europe of governments. It will be the Commission that will emphasize all the powers and this European people will see Europe more and more as an enemy, they will not feel part of any decision, but the defenceless object of any initiative that Europe takes. In the face of a European process that goes in this direction, what are you doing? You say there is the common market. But in this common market, Italy has something to say, does it have the opportunity to say and propose something? Undersecretary Gozi, a year and a half ago, promised us that he would activate the procedures for revising the Treaties. But he didn't say it in the premises or in the answers. These people, when they go to Europe, do much more at this point; I have to think that they are going to settle matters relating to insurance or banks. Are they going to settle the events concerning the small maneuvers they can do on the eve of the election campaign? Of course, they do not have a vision of the country, and above all they have no memory or no word, because - and I am about to conclude, Mr President - it is impossible not to maintain with Parliament a relationship of continuity between what is said before and what is said during and after. Above all, it is impossible not to give weight to the words so that they become concrete facts, with a Parliament in which my area has always supported, it has always encouraged the Government to act, because in that action it would also find our determination. For this reason, although there are elements of varying sensitivity in my Group, as far as I am concerned I am voting against, but in advance there will be other positions in the Group. [[Applause from Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u227	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u228	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u229	GAMBARO (AL-A). Madam President, this measure is of fundamental importance. We know that, despite the improvements in transposition times, there are still many open infringement procedures against Italy. The data refer to as many as 82 procedures, of which 60 for infringement of EU law and 22 for failure to transpose directives. Infringement procedures represent the risk of a huge cost for our country, also for the mechanisms of increase of sanctions that, compared to delays, become increasingly heavy. The provisions of the text are, of course, very heterogeneous, as is the European Union's legislative production. It ranges from the transposition of the Barnier directive on the SIAE monopoly, to the reduction of the use of plastic bags, from the quality of petrol and diesel fuels, to the framework decision on combating corruption in the private sector; from the regulation aimed at preventing the introduction and spread of invasive alien species, to the provision of information on food to consumers. On this last point, as has also been widely debated in this House, I would like to stress that the obligation to indicate the location of the production plant or, if different, of packaging is to be laid down in reference to national productions alone. I believe that this diction needs a greater understanding, also in order to protect productions specifically linked to a production territory because one thing is the place of production, another thing is that of packaging. However, we also think that this is the time of responsibility. At a time when the Community institutions show their fragility, at a time when the Brexit affair has helped to mark one of the most delicate moments in the history of the Union, the persistent terrorist threat, the construction of physical and mental walls represent serious obstacles to the progress of the process of European integration. But precisely because we are faced with this international framework, we need to stick to principles and values that strengthen the protection of European citizens. In order to do this, strategic policy becomes a closer and more effective link between Parliament and the national executive, as well as the government needs to participate more forcefully and authoritatively in the negotiation phase of decisions taken in European fora. And it is precisely at this ascending stage of the process that clashes can arise, clashes that do not only concern individual negotiations. We must not forget, however, that we are moving into a ground that sees in the background the wide-ranging crisis that Europe is going through. Everywhere we see deep social imbalances, increasingly showy pockets of poverty, economic difficulties of the productive fabric, failures of enterprises, social hardship of all kinds. This means that in order to reconcile with the European ideal or the European dream of forerunners, different paths must be taken and able to give meaning to the concept of European citizenship. The objectives to be achieved by Europe in the coming years are clear: it will be necessary to re-launch employment overall, to establish a common security strategy and to tackle the issue of migration decisively. All this affects the crisis of the Community institutions which is fed by the political crisis that has exploded in the heart of Europe. We can believe that by voting on this measure, we are giving a signal of credibility to the extent that we show that we are capable of fulfilling the obligations arising from our belonging to Europe, but not with our eyes closed, not supinatingly, in the knowledge that the law of annual delegation is not and must not be a simplistic passage or a mere bureaucratic fulfillment. On the contrary, we are faced with a real political instrument to transform what is being developed in Europe into concrete measures for citizens. We must therefore abandon the inevitability of our eyes, which we may have become accustomed to in recent years, and take on a more active, constructively more critical role whenever necessary, but always in favour of Italian citizens and the improvement of their quality of life. For these reasons, I declare the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party to vote in favour. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u230	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u232	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under consideration, as amended and approved by the House of Members, is, together with European law, one of the most important legislative instruments for ensuring the regular adaptation of our legal system to that of the European Union. As Mr Romano has already explained in detail, the measure consists of 21 articles and contains delegation provisions for the transposition of 15 European directives, a ESRB recommendation and a framework decision. In addition, it has delegation rules for the adaptation of national legislation to 12 European regulations, as well as provisions for authorising the Government to transpose, in a regulatory way, two directives. It has not been long since this House debated European law; well, today as then I am pleased to recall and thank the Government - in particular the Undersecretary Gozi - for the attention that is rightly due to this legislative instrument. No less, the expressed and undertaken will be part of a responsible and laborious path carried out up to this moment by the Italian legislator to resolve the widest number of pending disputes. To come to a rapid adoption of the laws of the European delegation has made it possible to guarantee, to date, the legislative implementation of more than 100 directives; to them must be added the 15 directives which form the subject of the measure today in the vote. We are, therefore, facing a real change of direction in relation to the past. The rapid approval of European laws, in fact, has not only restored our country's credibility at Community level, but has also allowed the closure of dozens of open infringement procedures against Italy. Although the Commission' s work on European policies has been rapid, the subjects dealt with are particularly interesting precisely because they are heterogeneous on a subject-by-matter basis, the areas of which are constantly evolving. It is enough to think about environmental, tax and justice issues. In view of the fact that the diversity of the subject matter contained here is a short reference to the parts covered by the 13th Directive. Standing committee, of which I am a member, which I have had the opportunity to follow more closely. Article 3, containing delegation to the Government for the adaptation of national legislation to the provisions of European Regulation No 1143 of 2014 sets out provisions to prevent and manage the introduction and spread of invasive alien species; Article 16, on the other hand, sets out principles and guiding criteria for the transposition of the 2015 European Directive 1513 on the quality of petrol and diesel fuel, and the 2009 Community Directive No 28 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. Finally, Article 17, introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, inserts the reference to Directive No 2193 of 2015, on the limitation of emissions into the atmosphere of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants. The article, in fact, provides that, in the exercise of the delegation for the implementation of the directive, the Government arranges for the reordering of the regulatory framework of the plants having emissions into the atmosphere in which the discipline of the medium combustion plants is placed. As I said before, the arguments contained therein are sensitive and deserving of attention because they involve several aspects: social, economic and legislative. I was aware of this when I presented to the Commission an agenda - which was subsequently accepted - on the development of digital payments in Italy. In fact, to educate and support consumers and traders to use digital payments, an excellent infrastructure base is not enough for the acceptance of digital payments and a good spread of payment cards among the Italian population, but it is necessary to promote an incentive action by the public subject. I remember that making payments traceable using digital tools helps to combat tax evasion. In the rest of European society, although digital payment is more widespread than in Italy, the economic and social fabric is different, with its own needs and specificities. We cannot fail to take this into account, so measures and adjustments to European provisions must be assessed and adapted to individual national realities. In conclusion, Madam President, I welcome the measure on the agenda. As has already been pointed out on other occasions, adaptation to European provisions must not only be seen as an action that has fallen from above, rather, it must be given ample recognition and merit to intervene on sensitive, innovative and social aspects that find their source and their framework within the European framework. This is also the added value of the European Union, which we often criticize. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the Autonomie-PSI-MAIE Group of which I am a member. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u233	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u234	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u235	URAS (Mixed). Madam President, the European delegation law of 2015 is passed - I happen to say - not at the end, but over the middle of 2016 and the first reflection we have to do is the following: why is the European delegation law done? It is done to delegate the Government to assume urgently the acts of transposition of Community legislation, in order not to incur sanctions from the Union and we, the law of European delegation 2015 - it is written in a beautiful blue dossier prepared by the Senate - approve it on the threshold of August 2016. You understand that if that one had a function, that one has already been betrayed. Secondly, beware that we do a lot of rhetoric around the European Union, but if we read the content of the legislation that we have to transpose, we will find out exactly what the Union is, out of the rhetoric. I take article 5, the one that has seen us most engaged in this evening, which delegates to the Government for the adaptation of national legislation on indications or marks that allow to identify the lot to which a foodstuff belongs. The European Union (be careful that what I am about to say is for the measure under consideration and for those we have already adopted at other times in previous years) is a crowded set of provisions that penetrate the legal order of each Member State, which regulate the lives of citizens to the point of determining what they have to eat, how they have to lie down in a hotel, how they have to pay their bank account, how they have to breathe the air of their country, perhaps polluted by a system of fuel use that does not appear to be the best for the health of citizens. It penetrates in every corner of our existence, but it does so only through matters of commercial interest or rather, above all, mainly because of commercial interests. Then we complain and we pose the problem if a populist process of denial of that project of European unity explodes in this crisis-torn Europe, but we must not be surprised. I say this to the Government, because in my speeches to Article 5, just this evening, I tried to explain that in order to save Europe, that is, to save the project and also the legitimate economic interests, we must change step, we must have a different tension, we must make priority, also towards the support and development of the European Union, the rights of citizens, their lives, their existence, their aspirations, their needs. If we do not do this, there is no arrogance, parliamentary arrogance or government that can resist. The tsunami arrives: nature cannot be provoked to infinity, because to this world there is a finite in every place and for everything. So, he arrives: he arrives with his account so negative that even everything we have and we can still build good is compromised. It is well known to all that I do not have a pre-emptive antipathy for the democratic and progressive area of this country: I am referring to that vast and wide area of good feelings that has been part of and is the main reference of my political history and also of my current commitment. Sometimes some of us try to say: stop for a moment, reason with us on the merit of the issues we pose, such as, for example, the defence of an economy like the southern one, which remains mainly linked to local development and does not have large enterprises. However, even if he had them, I invite everyone to reflect on what state I am in. I don't want to talk about Sulcis and ILVA aluminium. We approve regulations that contain a sort of license to kill, an impunity for the future because of the condition in which our industrial plants operate and for the damage and impacts on the health of citizens and the environment. We need to change ways of development, to support local development, to return to the productive vocations of the places and to ensure an eco-sustainable mode. But this is not just true of us, it is true of the world. If we don't save the planet, we don't save humanity. If there is someone who, being a certain age, is considering that, even if the damage came, it would not change things much, makes a selfish reasoning, which is not conceivable in those who exercise functions of government and overall responsibility for a country, for a continent, for the world. I address myself to the Undersecretary present and to the whole Government: let us try to reason with the head that is ripening within our population. Look, these aren't themes you don't understand. Our citizens and our communities have these issues in mind and it is on these issues that the prospect of a democratic government in this country is being played. In this perspective we win, for a democratic government in this country, or we lose and whoever does not understand it is responsible for it for today and also for tomorrow. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u236	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u238	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I cannot fail to start my speech without repeating a positive opinion on the government's action with regard to the implementation of Law No 234 of 24 December 2012, which is finally running in and is beginning to work. A sign of this operation I believe is also the fact that we are discussing the law of European delegation in good time, after having approved the European law for 2015. I believe that this action should be given credit to the Government and also to the Undersecretary Gozi. This is a sign that the Italian Government is beginning to understand that European policy is an important and fundamental element of national policy, it is not something secondary, but it is absolutely decisive. I believe that it must be said that the government, even through the constant demands of this House, is beginning to have a European policy which is not the remissive policy of those who go to take orders, nor the policy of those who think to beat their fists on the table. This measure fully fits into the convinced and timely path that the Government and Parliament are practicing, in order to fully implement the opportunities associated with Italy's membership and participation in the European Union. We therefore welcome the Government's commitment to invest with constancy energy and resources in the process of bringing national legislation closer to Community legislation. It is a choice that we consider strategic and qualifying. This strong mark has enabled us, during this parliamentary term, to bring three laws of delegation and three European laws to the House and to close many infringement procedures. The fact that we have chosen to make full use of the novelties introduced by Law No 234 of 2012 also represents a certainly tiring decision, but which we consider to be profoundly positive. The fact of preparing both European law and the law of delegation, thus dividing the time of transposition of directives from the most stringent one, relating to the overcoming of European litigation, and the fact of proceeding by presenting simultaneously two measures to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, constitute, in our opinion, intelligent choices, that allow to speed up the legislative path, avoiding empty passages and ensuring at the same time the deepening and the analysis necessary. With regard to the measure before us today, there has also been a fruitful comparison between Parliament and the Commission, which allows us today to submit to the Assembly an improved text compared to the Government's initial proposal, expanded in content and more effective in action. Italy, both with regard to European litigation and to the speed of transposition of Community legislation, is finally approaching the normal physiological level of the other major European States. If, therefore, it is important to adapt national legislation quickly to European legislation, which is even more strategic from a political point of view, it is important to be able to participate with authority and credibility in the negotiation of these same decisions. With this measure, we demonstrate to Europe that we are able to fulfil our commitments and we help to increase the importance of Italy's role in the composition of the major challenges that today are at the heart of the European political agenda. Therefore, with the delegation law 2015 we put Italian citizens and companies in a position to be able to benefit, like other European citizens, from the greater rights and the better guarantees that the Community regulations provide, by virtue of Europe's ability to respond better than individual Member States to the expectations of people: first, because of the strategic importance of the issues contained here; in the environmental field, with the commitment to adopt measures for a sustained reduction, for example, of the use of plastic bags, with actions related to the quality of petrol and diesel fuels, with those aimed at promoting the use of energy from renewable sources and with the transposition of the directive limiting the emissions into the atmosphere of certain pollutants. But also with the transposition of acts that directly affect the quality of life of citizens and opportunities for our businesses. Mr Uras, who preceded me, is right in saying that Europe very often affects our way of life and also the air we breathe in our land. However, it is probably also thanks to Europe that the air we breathe will be better than the air we would otherwise have. Also on the business side, useful regulatory principles are introduced, so that our production system can make the most of the opportunities of the European single market, thus investing in innovation and growth. There are many others, Madam President, the areas of intervention of this measure, which delegates the Government on very important issues in financial matters, in the field of justice and in the cultural sector, such as the intervention on copyright and the role of SIAE: an intervention that is the result of a mediation process, which has opened an important debate and a useful discussion that we believe should continue. We have clear objectives for Europe in the coming years: to speed up strategic investment, to strengthen economic and monetary union and to complete the financial union, to support with conviction the recovery of the real economy and the revival of employment; a common security and defence policy must be quickly defined and an integrated approach to the migratory phenomena in progress must be promoted with determination. This will have to be a response to the deep crisis that the Union is going through. In the face of large social imbalances and widespread economic difficulties, we must certainly go a new way in order to get closer to Europe. We must choose a new approach that can re-establish the sense of European citizenship. National governments and political forces all too often speak only to their audiences, without thinking about a common future. Greater European vision, therefore, less national selfishness, more measures, such as this which we are about to approve, which allow a single common European vision to be enlarged. I therefore vote in favour of the People's Area. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u239	Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u240	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u241	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u242	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, today President Mattarella, together with Council President Renzi, by virtue of the acts of terrorism that are taking place in these hours in Europe, send us a message: Italy does not enter the age of anxiety. It's too easy to say, ma'am, when you walk around quietly, with 20 spare cars. Let's say to all those Italian citizens around the world, to those Italian citizens who have also suffered a mourning because of the Islamic terrorism that is hitting our continent. Madam President, I would like you, as the President-in-Office of the Council, to make my appeal together with the request for information - which I shall also make in writing - to the President of the Council, to the President of the Republic, to Mr Boschi, to President Boldrini, to Mr Kyenge, to the President of the Lazio Region, who a few weeks ago, in a rush... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Actually, the president of the Lazio Region is Zingaretti. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Anyway, to Sassoli. At this point, I don't know who Sassoli is. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is a Member of the European Parliament. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Worse, then, Mr President, I would also like a request from a Member of the European Parliament coming from a territory, my own. We saw them at the funeral of the poor migrant killed a few weeks ago. However, Madam President, I was in Voghera, a city in the province of Pavia, where two of my fellow citizens lived, two people who had the misfortune of being in the wrong place at the wrong time. They were in Nice a few days earlier. These two people were killed by the Islamic fury of those who decided to stop the lives of two Italian citizens. And like them there are so many others. The problem, Madam President, is that there was no one on Friday to represent the Italian State. There was no one at the funeral of these two Italian citizens. The benches were empty and people noticed and commented. People wonder why two Italian citizens who died in such a violent way are totally forgotten by the left-wing solos, who become phenomena when they have to go and be seen, but then they are totally absent when two Italians fail at the hands of international terrorists. I ask myself this question, and I put it to the House. And I would like, in the future, to have an answer from those phenomena that were present instead in Fermo. I will also ask the President of the Republic to explain to us how we do and how these people, especially the citizens of Voghera and the relatives of these two people, do not live in anxiety. Maybe they need to be escorted. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u243	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u244	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u245	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this end-of-session speech I am continuing today in the Senate, the relay with which, together with so many senators and senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. These are the seventh and eighth feminicide since, last 30 June, we started the "staffetta": in Novara, last Friday 22 July, Gisella Purpura, 40 years old, for whose murder is under arrest her husband Billel Hilahi, 28 years old. In Genoa, yesterday, Tuesday, July 26, Giuseppina Minatel, seventy-six years old, was killed by her husband Giacomo Sfragaro, seventy-seven years old. In both cases, the media reports that this would happen after continual quarrels, out of jealousy. ISTAT informs us that a woman is killed in Italy every 2.2 days. 46.3 percent of the women killed die at the partner's hands. The severity of sexual and physical violence has increased. Cases of assisted violence are also growing. In the media, violence against women is always described as the result of passionate motives. The stereotype of betrayed "honor," which justified the right of honor, is transformed into that of jealousy, betrayal, abandonment that man has not been able to accept. The man is therefore to be pitied. His was an extreme gesture (a raptus). An explanation, in short, that by giving an extenuating to the culprit, places a part of responsibility on the woman as guilty of having provoked jealousy. It is a false representation of reality. Femicide is almost always the ultimate result of a series of long-standing violent behaviors. With Law No 119 of 2013 against gender violence, which this Parliament approved in implementation of the Istanbul Convention, our country has recognised violence against women as a violation of human rights and gender discrimination. He acknowledged that violence against women is a social phenomenon that has its roots in the relationship of asymmetrical power between man and woman. This is why it can be prevented by intervening on the factors that determine it. That is why a plan against violence against women has been proposed and approved. And in the meantime, instruments of protection have been strengthened to ensure greater safety for women under threat. However, it is necessary to monitor that these measures work and that the plan is implemented. Compared to the old Genoese couple, we know that the man, in 2012, had been denounced by his wife for ill-treatment. This was after the tragic loss of a child, but the fights had become more and more violent. A few hours before the murder, the woman called the Carabinieri because her husband beat her. The military calmed him down and left the house. Even the Novara Gisella Purpura had denounced the violence suffered by her husband and the latter in 2015 had settled a year and eight months with the conditional for ill-treatment in the family and kidnapping of person. The judge had ordered him to leave the conjugal house for ill-treatment, but in March the order had been revoked, at the request of the same victim. Not only had the husband been arrested a week earlier because he damaged some cars not far from home as a result of a fight with his wife, but he had been released immediately after validation. The tragic stories of Gisella and Giuseppina tell us of proven violence, of two dramas announced that, once again, confirm that there is no acceptable level of violence. This applies to women and to those who protect their safety. 71 women have been victims of feminicide since early 2016. In order not to leave these terrible deaths unheard, we appeal to the Minister for Equal Opportunities and to the whole Government: to monitor the applications, the merits and the limits of Law No 119 of 2013 and, above all, to give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. I appeal to the media: stop justifying murderers and blaming women. I appeal to the country, men and women: 160 women are killed every year; we can no longer accept this massacre. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency agrees with his words.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u246	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u247	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u248	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Madam President, on 18 September 2015 I tabled a question urging the Government to intervene in order to safeguard the employment and wage levels of workers and to ensure a productive future at the plant of the Ferroli group in Alano di Piave, Bellunese. To almost a year of silence and not answers, I have introduced a question with which I bring to the attention of the Government - I hope you will do me through - the crisis occupational and production, reached the epilogue a few days ago with the presentation of the industrial plan from the managing director of the Ferroli. A plan of overall reorganization that sees the company substantially restricting its action in Italy only to the plants of San Bonifacio, in Verona, and Casole d'Elsa, in the Sienese, closing but foundries and logistics. A plan that will aim - I quote the words of the company itself - to create an increasingly international, slim and agile business model that puts the quality of the products at the centre. However, the company is forgotten to place at the center women and men already in the integration fund at zero hours for a year; fathers and mothers of families who can not pay the rent and bills or do the shopping, who can not give their children a future. These are about 600 redundancies, including the 130 of Alano di Piave, for which I had already asked the Government to take action last year and for which the regional advisors of the Tusian group have also pressed the Governor of Veneto, because they move from words to deeds, having made in 2015, in full electoral campaign, promises of a new future to the families involved. However, to date the concrete facts are still not visible and not detectable; the situation has deteriorated from year to year and sees these families in great difficulty. The same concrete facts now, with my group, I ask the government. I ask you to speak, and I ask the government, after a year, to have the will to give the floor to these families. It is enough to exploit the integration fund, which must be a means, not to relaunch companies, but to save workers. It must then be the company itself that responds to this use of funds, and not only through the sacrifice of these redundancies. I remember that there are 536 workers, who have to pay the highest price. It is not right for them to pay this price; it must also be the company that makes an effort to give answers. I therefore ask the Government to intervene urgently and to start a working table with the representatives of the workers, with the institutions of the territory, the Regional Council and the National Government. This in order to avoid the possibility of redundancies and dismissals of almost 600 workers (a really high number for a reality like ours, in Veneto), through the consensual redefinition of an industrial plan less penalising both for the labour force and for the company, finding a point of comparison and a consensual point, restoring hope and work to these families in a time of crisis. It's a future for these families, it's a future for the workers, it's a future for their children.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u249	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u250	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u251	ICHINO (PD). Madam President, I also speak on behalf of Senator Andrea Marcucci, to recall in this Chamber Pia Pera, who died in Lucca yesterday. The daughter of one of the fathers of our labor law, Giuseppe Pera, a great acquaintance and translator of Russian literature, of whom she was also a professor for a short time at the University of Trento, a successful author both in the narrative field, and in the essay field, a collaborator of numerous national newspapers, Pia Pera was above all an extraordinary cult, in the fullest and highest sense, of her land and of the deep union that binds her to all creatures, animals and plants, that animate her. Of many of his books are the plants, the fruits, the flowers and the love that bound him to them. But in his last book "At the garden I have not yet said "the protagonist" is the disease that cruelly attacked her, progressively limiting her vital functions and placing her in front of the certainty of a very premature end. Here, in the story of Pia, grieving in its secular and intense spirituality, the garden becomes poetically the chosen place of a life that, despite everything, deserves to be lived until the last palpitation; but also the metaphor of our belonging to a whole that does not perish and does not end for the only to perish and finish of its part, of its creature. In a recent interview with the daily newspaper "La Nazione" Pia tells us about her being one with her garden, so with the whole world: The man as the plant suffers damage from the weather. So I can dry and wither as if I were immersed in the life of my garden. Becoming one with one's own garden can also mean finding a state of grace in the disease. And - we add - in death. Thank you, Pia, for this unforgettable lesson of yours.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u252	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u254	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, the Italcementi plant in Monselice, south of Padua, is in the process of being disposed of. In 2010 there were 155 workers, currently 50, and since 1 February 2017 there may be no one left. To these is added a hundred workers of the induced. Who takes charge of the situation? Nobody, they're abandoned. Construction is abandoned to itself and the new Holding Italcementi Heidelberg terminates. From 2011 to 2013 there would be about 80 redundancies at Monselice cement mill, due to the change of ownership and the consequent demolition restructuring. In April 2016 the Cementizillo plant in Este was closed with the release of 50 other workers, between accompaniment to the pension and redundancies. We now ask ourselves whether the workers of Monselice are B-series citizens, so that they cannot enjoy the so-called social plan of which other workers of the same company have been able to benefit. The crisis in the whole connected sector led to an average unemployment of 17% in the south of Padua against a provincial average of 7%: it is a devastating impact; an entire territory has impoverished. I am thinking of years of pressure on flexibility in the labour market, which have hidden us from the fact that in all the countries of Europe, alongside flexibility, income security is guaranteed. In civilized countries there is talk of flexsecurity. Article 38 of the Constitution also protects the income of involuntary unemployed workers, but Italy is almost the only country without a citizenship income. The 5 Star Movement has made for years a proposal that ensures that no one falls below the poverty line, that frees citizens from occupational blackmail, political recommendations, from the vote of exchange to beg an income, and develops a system of training and relocation that also favors businesses, because it reduces union tensions. Those who have so far rejected our proposals, which have been well financed, as the officials of the Budget Committee have acknowledged; those who have rejected our proposals for innovation, research and development, training and retraining of workers; those who have rejected the proposals for relaunching the economy from the energy redevelopment of buildings, which would do so much good for the construction sector; in short, those who live in spot interventions, between a thousand and one thousand jobs, must now respond to this situation, because in the Province of Padua we have the victims of their ignavia. I therefore urge you, Madam President, to respond promptly to the question that I presented to Mr Calenda today on this matter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u255	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u256	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u257	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, we have the problem of the disposal of nuclear waste that is not being addressed. In particular, we have a situation regarding the disposal of waste arising from military activities. I submitted my question 4-03527 in February 2015, but I did not receive a reply. I urge the government to respond. In this case it is an experimental reactor in the province of Pisa and its nuclear waste. There is a four-stage decommissioning strategy, but the last three are not known. We don't know where the radioactive waste will be stored. It is well known that we must, through Sogin, set up a national single storage facility, but it has not yet been clarified by anyone whether radioactive waste will also be disposed of as regards military activities. Therefore, I urge a response to the serious problem that the Government has been putting under the carpet for more than a year suspending the appointment of the general manager of SSP, more so after the re-election of the board of directors of Sogin, in which are present two persons in conflict of interest. The former presents a rather blatant and political conflict of interest because he is the mayor of one of the cities where a nuclear power station is located. The other person is a journalist who has repeatedly spoken in favour of nuclear power. Its presence on the board of directors of a company that should do the dismantling of nuclear power stations is suspicious. I ask the answer to this question, which deals with a huge problem that will persecute us for about two hundred thousand years. This is the period of time for which waste remains radioactive and for which the Government has so far heard as a merchant.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u258	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-669.ana.u259	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 28 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.41 a.m.
