ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:37 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9.41 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u10	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the fact that you are the President. Don't take too long. IN MAY (CoR). No, I don't take much advantage of it. But I know his sensitivity to matter. I believe the country is experiencing a democratic emergency. Beyond the announcements by our President-in-Office of the Council, who is trying to divert attention by going to Europe to say that, in order to close the agreements with Turkey, we must also make available part of what is concerning Turkey's information system, I would like to denounce the purgations of a typical regime implemented today within the RAI. I would like more attention and I would like to understand how the Supervisory Commission intends to intervene, because we are now in barbaric invasions within our information system. [[Applause from Senator Bell.]] And I would like to understand, in the silence that animates this House (when at other times the intellectuals of the left mobilized), whether this attention must fall today and whether we must continue the ruin that is being perpetrated in the RAI. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u11	As you rightly pointed out, Senator Di Maggio, attention will be put to the Supervisory Committee for this purpose.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u12	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1738, 548, 630, 1056, 1202, 1292 and 1798.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u13	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u14	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u15	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u18	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, in the previous vote I was wrong to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u19	The Presidency takes note of this. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u20	I am against Amendments 5.2 and 5.300. The opinion is, of course, in favour of amendment 5.0,300 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u21	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u22	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.2, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,300, tabled by Senators De Cristofaro and Petraglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.0,300 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of amendment 6.0.5, which seeks to include an additional article after Article 6, which is intended to be explained, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u23	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u24	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u25	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.0.5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.5, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u26	I am in favour of amendment 7,300 (text 2). CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Why is the opinion favourable? It is the same as my amendment 6.0.5. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's not true. She lies knowing she's lying.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u27	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u28	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7,300 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u31	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am pleased that the rapporteur, in rethinking, has expressed a favourable opinion on amendment 7,300 (text 2), which largely repeats what was foreseen in my previous amendment which you rejected. These are the measures of voluntary jurisdiction related to the functions of table judge of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia area, for which we had indicated what Senator Zeller correctly proposes and that I therefore vote with pleasure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Perhaps because Senator Zeller's amendment is in Article 7 and not in Article 6, so it is more appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u34	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I cannot remain silent. I cannot fail to address Senator Cucca, who has expressed an opinion contrary to Senator Caliendo's amendment 6.0.5 which gives jurisdiction for the voluntary jurisdiction to the Trentino-Alto Adige peace judge and then has expressed a favourable opinion to the same amendment which, within the framework of the voluntary jurisdiction, aims to identify specific matters or measures. If we do not consider that we give the court of peace the voluntary jurisdiction for Trentino-Alto Adige, I wonder why we should then make a distinction between a court of voluntary jurisdiction and another. One day far away Senator Cucca may explain it to the doctrinators who will evaluate the goodness of this provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u37	CUCCA, rapporteur. Mr President, in my renunciation I noticed a circumstance that perhaps escaped Senator Falanga, that is to say that the panel proceedings take place not only in Trentino, but also in other regions. Therefore, I voted in favour of amendment 7,300 (text 2) because it covered all regions in which access to such proceedings is possible, in spite of that of Senator Caliendo who dealt only with those of Trentino. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Caliendo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u40	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, if colleagues had read the two amendments correctly, they would have noticed that, apart from the fact that ours applies to all regions where the table system exists (which also exists in part of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region and not only in Trentino-Alto Adige), it limits the measures that can be delegated to the judge of peace only to those of minor complexity. Since we are in a very delicate field, that of the real estate regime, together with the Government we have thought to limit, in line with the purpose of the present draft law delegation, the measures delegated to the judge of peace to those of less complexity, while the text of Senator Caliendo would have delegated tout court all the measures related to the judge table to the judge of peace. That is why the two amendments have a similar purpose, but they are very different in their content. [[Applause from Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u41	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,300 (text 2), tabled by Senator Zeller and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 7 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u42	Mr President, I am opposed to both amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u43	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u44	Let us turn to amendment 8,300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. STEFANI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,300, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u47	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would just like to say a few words about how contradictory the government has been and how much Parliament is obliged to be contradictory in this measure. In Article 8, on the one hand, there is talk of an invariance, that is to say that the rule does not result in new or greater burdens on public finances; on the other hand, Article 8 proposed by the Commission is well aware that this whole matter cannot but inevitably create changes in public finance, especially since in the law of stability the funding for the honorary judiciary has been reduced. So there is an objective - and certainly will be - problem of cover for the honorary magistrates. I would like to stress that the government is given the opportunity to determine, within the legislative decrees, new or greater burdens. I would like to point out that, instead, with regard to the whole matter of public finance and to the stability of public finance, as we have been reminded several times (when an opinion is expressed contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution), Parliament must strictly adhere to the principle of stability. With this article we expect, instead, that the Government, in its decrees, autonomously and with delegation of Parliament, will be able to decide some variations. I believe that this is an unfortunate demonstration of inconsistency with Parliament's ability to act at the legislative level with a certain degree of freedom, including with regard to financial cover.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u50	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we will also vote against the cover article of this measure, because we consider it not in line with the forecasts that should normally be followed in order to comply with Article 81 of the Constitution. As far as there is a reserve of indication of successive financial sources, in order to cover any greater expenses, I would like to point out that this reserve has never been introduced in our system, because the compensatory formula has always been used: many delegations have been made within the amounts allocated or to the invariance of burdens for public finance and have provided that the delegated decrees could allow, for some items of the delegation, a greater expense, provided that previously compensated by decrees delegated that had covered that greater expense. In this case we are in the presence of something new, which is the possibility for the Government to indicate in the decrees delegated new sources of coverage, which clearly contrasts with our budgetary rules and with the respect due to Parliament. [[Brusio]] If at least one could avoid a conciliation between three lawyers, which is the worst thing that can happen! [[Applause from Senator Volpi. Recalls of the President]] I mean, now seriously, that's a very dangerous principle and to be avoided. This is not so much because it is an additional prerogative that this Government wants to attribute, in addition to the many others that it is assigning outside the ordinary and constitutional laws, but also because for any future Government can have the possibility, through a delegation, to increase the sources of coverage of delegated decrees is something that absolutely must not be expected and that in any case collides with Article 81 of the Constitution and with all the parliamentary practice. Apart from that, which is certainly a vulnus to avoid (and therefore we will also vote against) there is another political and economic aspect to be emphasized. Clearly the Government itself, in asking for the delegation, clearly recognizes that the sums to be committed on the front of the decrees will certainly be greater than the cover that it indicates today. This is an open and absolutely clear confession of incapience of the sources of cover of the law. But there is more: the contents of this measure, as they are highlighting at the end of the debate in the Chamber, let us see quite clearly that we are creating a category of magistrates who, for the conditions of extension and renewal of contracts, will shortly be able to activate a series of disputes under the labour law in force in our country, and above all the jurisprudence on labour law that is now fairly consolidated, in order to obtain the recognition of ordinary employees of the State with all the economic consequences that this can entail. That is the economic aspect. In addition, on the substance, we are launching a procedure that could lead to an increase in the ranks of the judiciary by circumventing the competition phases. In fact, if there were to be recognition through a cause of work of the permanent and full-time inclusion of these magistrates in the body of the judiciary, there would certainly be an invasion in that judicial order of magistrates who did not carry out any competition. I do not believe that our judicial body can be very pleased with this and surprises me, since it is accustomed to intervene always through the Higher Council in our legislative affairs - in my opinion not appropriately - that this time it silent and that it has not seen the risk of a clear attack on the rules that normally preside at the possibility of being ordinary magistrates in our country. All these considerations, mainly of an economic nature by virtue of my area of competence in the Commission, but also of merit for those which are my personal assessments, lead me to say that we will certainly and firmly vote against Article 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u51	We greet professors and students of the Istituto tecnico statale "Michele Laporta" in Galatina, in the province of Lecce, who are witnessing many of our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u54	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u55	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 8.0.300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, we are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 8.0.300.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u58	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I call on the House to vote in favour of amendment 8.0.300, because, making my own the arguments that Senator D'Alì has just put forward regarding the excruciating practice of the delegated decree aimed at finding financial cover, with amendment 8.0.300 - it will be the last vote we will express - we aim to amend a provision of the last law of stability that, in paragraph 609 of the single article, has ordered the cut of more than 6.5 million euros for the year 2016 and of more than 7.5 million euros for 2017 to the compensation item of both the judges of peace and of the honorary magistrates. Indeed, with these resources, if they returned to the availability of that budget chapter in the event of approval of this measure, the need for a possible and subsequent decree delegated to protect the financial invariance would be unnecessary, which is why we announce the Group's vote in favour, inviting the other Groups to do the same. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u59	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.300, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u62	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, this measure comes after several years of prolongations and measures which are, we say, jagged about in the area of honorary judiciary. The need to create a single figure of honorary judge and, therefore, to replace the GOA, the aggregate judge of court, and the judge of peace with a single figure, which in some way was regulated by a law of the State, seemed wise to me. Therefore, apart from the remarks made in the examination of the measure, the conclusion can only be in favour of the measure. Of course, I have been in general discussion of some constitutional importance. For example, where it is expected that the honorary judge appointed to the judge's office, who has no jurisdiction (in the sense that he cannot decide the cases) may exceptionally do so on matters of simple solution, but at the suggestion of the judge. This is the third time that I repeat in this House that the judge, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 101 of the Constitution, in the context of his judicial activity can only have the obligation to comply with the law and can certainly not decide on the basis of a suggestion, even if this comes from a professional judge touted. (at 10.28 a.m.) (Falanga followed). I hope that this provision, which has been dismissed with a shadow of unconstitutionality, will be improved. In the same way, I pointed out that, where it is expected that a judge of peace should have the favourable opinion of the Council of Order for the renewal of his office, it was probably not understood what the function of the Council of Order was. The Council of Order, of which the President has been for over ten years, is a basically political body of professional policy, with elections opposing various factions and groups within the lawyer. And if it is expected that the judge, in order to have the renewal of his office, must have the favorable opinion of the politics, it seems to me that we are going towards a system, that is certainly not Italian and that never has been, of a judiciary subject in some way to political and executive power. Of course, it is little compared to the danger that I prospect, but it is a small step that, in my opinion, should not be taken. On a practical level, those who have imagined this provision do not know at all the environment of the courts. In fact, think of a judge of peace who is before him a party represented by a lawyer who is a member of the board of the order, knowing that that lawyer, the day after tomorrow, will have to express an opinion of favor and of positive pleasantness of his professional activity. Now, I move everything, always, from the human element, even unknowingly. Yesterday the Undersecretary for Justice in this House said that we are making laws on the assumption that we have decent people before us. I have no doubt that a good person, even if the judge of peace wrongs him, will eventually express a favourable opinion on him, even having been wronged by that judge. But goodness cannot contrast with the human element. And it is human that if a judge, as an attorney, wrongs me in one cause and then wrongs me in another and in another, it triggers in me feelings and emotions of sympathy and dislike, which are not controllable. It is normal and human that an elementary teacher who enters a classroom with twenty children sees a child with greater sympathy and another with greater dislike. I challenge not to verify how the monelleria made by the antipathic child will be censored in a more serious way than that made by the sympathetic child. We should have prevented a judicial function from being somehow conditioned by an opinion that can often arise on the basis of a human emotion. I wasn't even heard about it. I have tried to make a sub-amendment to the rapporteur's amendment. It was unacceptable, and I knew it well, President Gasparri. As an attorney, I tried to deceive the offices of the Senate presidency. I couldn't and I took note of my defeat. But the content of the sub-amendment was important. Predicting the abolition of this provision was important. Just as important was the sub-amendment which provided for the same compensation for the criminal proceedings of the court of peace, regardless of the solution and the definition of the procedure, i.e. the request for referral to court or the filing. It's provocative, that sub-amendment. It is provocative because the Minister must know - and it is good that he knows - that, if in the implementing decree a different compensation should be provided for the provision defining the judgment of filing with respect to the provision defining the procedure with the request for referral to trial, I personally will make barricades. Because it cannot be imagined serene a judge who knows that, by adopting a measure, he will be in a higher figure than the adoption of another measure; this in both cases. Madam Undersecretary, know that if there ever comes an implementing decree containing such a provision, it is in the Commission, where we will express a non-binding opinion, but which will have its impact if you put the condition... it is good that the Government knows... The Undersecretary is on the phone. Madam Undersecretary, do not come to Parliament with an implementing delegated decree providing for a different allowance between the two different hypotheses for defining the procedure, so that, if this happens, you know that there will be barricaded in the Commission. For this would mean to say to the judge: if you ask for the release of ten persons, if instead you ask for the referral to court in fifty cases. And don't tell me that the laws we make for decent people, because you find me a decent person who, depending on how you define the proceedings, forfeits 5,000 euros per month or 1,000 euros per month; you find a decent person who renounces 4,000 euros to do, as you say, substantial justice. Nevertheless, at this stage, and awaiting greater attention, hoping that the measure in the other House will have a rapporteur (will allow me to say that Senator Cucca, to whom I am very fond) more attentive to the suggestions and criticisms that some points of this measure have been moved by the Senate, we express a favourable vote, for the pre-eminent interest of the country to have a regulation of the honorary judiciary, which - alas - has become the backbone of the Italian justice system. Therefore, for these prominent reasons, we will vote in favour, despite the criticism I have just denounced. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u65	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission's annual report on the efficiency of justice has given us thought to bring down the last alibi with regard to the inefficiencies and slowness of our judicial system. It was widely believed, in fact, that we devoted little resources to the justice system. It's not like that. The Commission's photo, which looks at the year 2012, says that our country has invested 4.5 billion in the justice system: third, only behind Germany and the United Kingdom. I would also like to point out how much this costs to every individual citizen. Referring to the per capita fallback of the resources allocated by each individual country to justice, if the European average is 35 euros per person, in Italy the judicial system (judges, prosecutors, administrative staff) costs 50 euros per person, on average. This is a very heavy burden, in fact the Bank of Italy measures it in 1% of GDP: I believe that this is a very uncomfortable figure compared to the final result, i.e. compared to the service. The international comparative analyses carried out by the World Bank have confirmed that the civil justice system constitutes the Achilles heel of our economic system, placing Italy in 158th place in the e nforcing contracts rank (the classification of execution of contracts), with an average duration of the procedures of recovery of the credit of 1,210 days; it takes practically three years to recover a credit. In addition, the average cost of recovering the credit is 30%. In short, in the field of justice we have managed to develop a new economic model: the maximum burden for a minimum result. Justice - and I am referring to the specific sector of the civil sector - has an urgent need to transform itself from a boulder on the economy to a flywheel of the economic recovery of our country. After a long period of reform, which very little has actually been reformed, it is now a categorical imperative to arrive at a process that can guarantee, at every stage and degree of judgment, effectiveness and timeliness of decisions. It is in this context that the draft law delegates today under discussion, with which the Government proposes to proceed to an organic and overall reform of the honorary judiciary, considering no longer adequate the current discipline of the same, today modulated differently depending on whether it is peace judges, that is, honorary judges of the court and of course vice prosecutors honorary. This bill, which follows many others of parliamentary initiative, pursues the aim of redesigning the honorary judiciary through the establishment of a single statute applicable indifferently to the entire honorary judiciary. Not only that, the bill today in the Chamber, interpreting and updating the forecasts referred to in Articles 43 and 43-bis of the judicial order, also intends to enhance the role of the non-Togati judges, emancipating them from the mere substitution function of judges prevented or absent, through the introduction of three possible organizational models: flanking, supplementing and finally autonomous role. (at 10.42 a.m.) (May follow). In recognizing, in this regard, the indispensability of the contribution that the honorary judiciary daily offers to the administration of justice, especially that of proximity, I cannot help but make some brief considerations which are not limited to the text in question alone. It, with all the limitations that I and the Group of Conservatives and Reformists have emphasized with our amending activity, although it constitutes an appreciable work of mending - and I emphasize of mending - the worn-out fabric of justice, unfortunately - it is good to say clearly - constitutes yet another legislative attempt with a merely remedial character, but certainly not resolving a problem that would require a radical change of perspective, that transits for a systematic, organic and overall reorganization of the justice system. Another aspect which could be affected, from the point of view of efficiency, is that of judicial reorganization. From this point of view, I think it would be desirable to delete certain offices: consider regional public water courts or agricultural specialised sections, whose powers are all too often the source of issues and conflicts of competence of which the procedural system should and could certainly do without. It would also be appropriate to rethink the judicial functions that are passed by the clear recognition, also in terms of primary standardisation, of the professional positions of ordinary magistrates, which should be differentiated by reason of their functional specialisation. It is clear that, in view of the extraordinary complexity achieved by the current regulatory framework, the need for a specialization of judicial functions (perhaps tempered by temporal criteria of rotation) and an effective division of labour according to criteria of subject matter by homogeneous areas, is now the indispensable prerequisite for efficient justice. This would not disperse the competences achieved and could contribute, as a virtuous effect of the high knowledge acquired in the individual fields of legal knowledge, to a strong increase in the productivity of the judicial offices and the consequent reduction of the times of definition of disputes. Finally, I cannot fail to point out that another essential element for a serious innovation of justice is the reform of the lawyer (now no longer procrastinable), which can no longer be excluded from the introduction of a programmed number of entrances into the ranks of the forensic class. The current system, in fact, has helped to determine, with increasing alarming frequency, the phenomenon of the so-called anomalous demand for justice, i.e. an abnormal repetition of judicial initiatives for matters of a serial nature and of modest economic value that clogged the judicial offices of first instance, committing, in a disproportionate way with respect to the protected interest, the energies of judges and administrative staff and contributing decisively to the expansion of the average length of the trials. In the same direction, however, there is a need for a radical change in the legal aid system, often due to the above-mentioned phenomenon of anomalous application, and also to a considerable burden on the community. In short, the measure we are about to vote on is an attempt to put up patches. Unfortunately, the problems of the justice system cannot be solved by commercials, as more organic reform would be necessary and, unfortunately, also for the debate we have seen in this House, the amending part has not yet been transposed by those who should have done so. I understand that this is a mess, in line with what is now the mentality of the relative majority party: good intentions always follow a series of solutions that are not congenial. There seems to be a logical thread: primaries are an excellent understanding, but let's say that the way they are carried out leaves much to be desired. The prospect of the draft law under consideration is commendable, while the poor result. For this reason, I declare the Conservatives and Reformists abstaining. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u68	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, let us remember that the honorary judiciary is governed, on a transitional basis, by a legislative decree of 1998, which was adopted several decades after the entry into force of the Constitutional Charter. I remember that the Constitutional Charter provides for the honorary judiciary, but probably since then, in all these decades, the issue has always been very particular and delicate, since from the approval of the Constitution to the legislative decree of 1998 decades have passed and still more have passed since then. We find ourselves in a very particular situation which, in some ways, is a cross-section of the Italian way of proceeding. The 1998 legislative decree contained a transitional regulation, providing that within five years the reform of the honorary judiciary would take place. How many years has it been since then? It seems the classic bar sport, but in Italy everything that is precarious becomes definitive. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We find ourselves with an honorary judiciary that has been operating for years, decides and issues judgments, carrying out the activity of a magistrate, with an incredible precariousness and a problem of elaboration of a professionalism. The measure in question has been proposed to compensate for the shortcomings of the justice system and for the man on the road it is therefore trivial to ask why there has not been an intervention on the honorary judiciary. Why invented VPOs, GOTs, GOAs and so many acronyms? The man in the street says: because you have not increased the number of magistrates togati. It seems the most trivial thing, but in Italy everything that is transitory is then crystallized in measures. We are now faced with a proposal which, in some ways, calls for a sigh of relief for almost all those honorary magistrates who, however, have been working for years and do not know whether the following year they will have a confirmation in office or do not have a form of social security or compensation regulation systems. Here then there is the misunderstanding not precise for professionals who have taken time from their own profession, often carrying out more professions. We wonder if the proposed reform can assure the fundamental principles of the work of a magistrate, that is, that person who decides. Can we use this rule to ensure the impartiality, third-party and independence of the magistrate? The system is already designed to allow and, indeed, suggest or almost impose another profession. The other profession, as often happens for many magistrates, is precisely that of the lawyering and this creates problems not only in the matter of conflicts of interest. As much as there is a ban on practicing the profession of lawyer within the surrounding area, there are always some very special systems also to remedy that ban because, as always happens in Italy, it is easy to make a rule, but just as easy it is to find the escamotage to bypass it. In the end, we find a measure that does not provide for a stabilization of these figures. They're always precarious figures. As one of my group's colleagues said, it is a career in time. Instead, the career and professionalism that is required of the magistrate are extremely delicate and must be particularly thorough: they cannot be carried out by anyone. On the same professionalism one wonders whether this measure has been able to process it and to assure it. The appointment of the magistrate leads to doubts, because it is not for a competition for exams, but for titles. In the end, the appointment of these figures is almost entrusted to the Higher Council and the candidates do not access it through a path that can ensure competence and preparation. This creates, among other things, a huge unbridled fracture (which will always be there) between a togata judiciary and an honorary judiciary. The first requires preparation for very difficult competitions (even if, regardless of the outcome, and a particular preparation is not required that the study ensures common sense). For the honorary judiciary, the question arises as to whether the rule has been able to cover at least the requirement of professionalism and competence. Surely there is a form of advantage from this provision because it certainly gives guarantees to these figures of magistrates, who will be able to see their activity extended and trust to be able to exercise their duties for several years. At the end of the day, however, it is not certain that it can continue until a retirement age. It depends on the age at which it starts. Become a second job. However, considering the judiciary as a second job is at least dangerous. I wonder what the other solutions could have been. It is not easy to find them because, if a subject is called to decide, one should remain in the beehive of the real judiciary and now we find ourselves in the contradiction of saying: they are magistrates, but in reality they are not. The same applies to the mechanism of the decision. If the honorary magistrate is to comply with directives by the togata judiciary and its office, then questions may arise from the point of view of liability. How will he respond to his decision when he has complied with a directive? If he did not abide by this directive, on a matter of principle, will he reply to whom did he give it to him? These are not easy situations, which perhaps could have been better dealt with, in a more organic and even more courageous way. Unfortunately, many of the amending proposals have not been accepted. It is certainly a bill that has a very strong government footprint and, for the umpteenth time, we are faced with a measure that is not parliamentary: we cannot say that it is a measure drawn up in this Chamber. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It derives, however, as always, from the Diktats coming from our Ministries. Let's remember that we are talking about the honorary magistrates, who in Italy should be about 7,800, while the togati judges are almost 8,800. It may seem strange, but those belonging to these two categories are in almost the same number; it is therefore a role that should have been only of support, but that has come to constitute a relevant phenomenon, which must in some way be disciplined. For the reasons set out above, however, for the issues we raised and our concerns about the measure, unfortunately we cannot vote in favour of the bill and, for these reasons, the North League will abstain. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u71	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to begin very quickly with a methodical consideration. That at our examination is certainly a bill of delegation and Senator Stefani has just highlighted its critical aspects as well; certainly, however, as a law of delegation is better than others, from a technical point of view. In fact, this is not a blank delegation, but rather a rather detailed delegation, which has all the characteristics required for delegated legislation of this type. The measure is also the result of the coordination between a government bill and several parliamentary texts of initiative. All in all, therefore, it was a pleasant experience, a good page - as we do not see so many - of good parliamentary practice, in the exercise of the legislative function. Coming to the merits of the measure - I will certainly not dwell on all the aspects contained in this rather complex text - can only be welcomed by the enlargement of the powers of the judge of peace and of the honorary judiciary, which obviously leads to a reduction of the burden for ordinary judges. Of course, in an ideal world it would have been necessary to intervene on the ordinary judiciary, but it is clear that there are a number of limitations of factual order that force us to proceed along this path. In particular, there are a number of issues, which are then mainly the ones that clogged the courts. Anyone with a bit of experience in this matter ends up knowing very well: we go from condominium issues, to those successors, from communion to real rights of various kinds, from movable goods (for a value of the causes that rises up to 30,000 euros) to compensation from road accidents (for a value that is brought up to 50,000 euros) and, above all, to voluntary jurisdiction, in all matters of less complexity. It is very important that some attention should also be paid to the formation of peace judges and honorary magistrates. Perhaps too much attention is paid to the clauses of financial invariance, which are repeated in the text, almost as if they were a mantra: sometimes it seems almost an excusatio not petite, but it will then be the government's task to make the accounts right, from this point of view. It is also important that the text reserves the attention both to the table system, in the regions in which it is present, and to the specificities of the regions with special statutes, for which it is envisaged a reference to the implementing legislation, which is already present and which will have to be supplemented and modified, following the approval of the text under consideration, to take account of the changes made. Of course, the current picture is worrying and Senator Stefani described it in a very detailed and timely way, but that is precisely why it is necessary to take a step forward, knowing very well that it is only a step within a broader process. It is essential to do so because the alternative is to remain in the situation that Senator Stefani has just described well and mercilessly, knowing that it is a piece within a much more complex mosaic of reform of the judicial system and the better functioning of the courts. Furthermore, knowing how many years this attempt has been being made, it can only be welcomed that the text under consideration has been approved, which is an important step, but certainly not the only one within the mosaic that is going to compose. For these reasons I can only announce the vote in favour of the Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u74	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to declare the Misto-SI-SEL Group's abstention vote on this draft law. In fact, we do not consider the reform in question and I will try to explain quickly why. We know, of course, not from today, that the honorary judiciary plays an irreplaceable role also and above all to meet the needs of the justice of the daily and of proximity to the citizens; we also know the large number of cases dealt with every year (600) and brought to definition in a short time: they are civil causes on movable property, compensation damages from road traffic, injunctive decrees. Over time, peace judges have also increased their competences, including criminal matters and appeals against administrative sanctions. The honorary judiciary therefore carries out a fundamental and vital task for the proper functioning of justice, but at the same time enjoys an inadequate legal and legal treatment in relation to the importance of the function carried out. It is therefore necessary to guarantee the honorary judiciary some guarantees of justice in order to ensure professionalism, independence and impartiality, obviously starting from the adjustment of the legal status of the honorary judges to the role played and the recognition of their rights. At present, the honorary magistrates do not enjoy any form of welfare and social security protection, they do not have the right to a pension, they do not have any protection for health, pregnancy, family, accidents at work and there is no provision for an end-of-work treatment. The delegation plans to identify and regulate a social security and welfare system compatible with the honorary nature of the assignment, but - it is specified - without charges for public finance, providing for the acquisition of the necessary resources through accident measures on the allowance. It is clear that the engraving without charges for public finance will not guarantee any rights or, at most, guarantee some halved rights, and this will certainly also affect remuneration. In particular, constitutional rights to health and motherhood would be affected by the provision of dispensation for any impediments that continue for six months, as provided for in Article 2 (10) (a) of this draft law. Also with regard to compensation, the text, providing that the compensation of the judges of peace must be lower than that provided for in the exercise of judicial functions, avoids any quantitative reference and, moreover, links the payment of the variable part to the degree of achievement of the objectives and in any case puts the evaluation of these objectives back to the discretionary opinion of the president of the court. From our point of view this forecast appears mortifying and also affects the serenity of the performance of the assignment not adequately paid. In our view, the remuneration of the honorary judiciary must be linked to fixed and certain criteria and not linked to variable parameters determined by the President of the court. These provisions, moreover, contrast with the recent positions taken by the highest European institutions and also with the opening of the infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission against the Italian State, which, precisely following the denunciation of an Italian honorary magistrate, raised - as we know - the question of compatibility of the working conditions of an honorary magistrate, more correctly than national law and practice than Community law, by providing for the opening of an infringement procedure against our country. Among other things, judges in service for more than 12 years would also have reached the right to stabilisation on the basis of the Community Directive on fixed-term work. Even the provision of a limited number of mandates, confirmed by the delegation, cannot be admissible for judges under transitional arrangements, who carry out a delicate judicial task and who, due to the progressive increase in competence, fail to carry out any other professional activity. In fact, we have a generational range of forty-five to fifty-five years which currently carries out with efficiency and professionalism exclusively the activity of judge of peace and which, with the prediction of a limited number of mandates, would suddenly be, at the age of about sixty years, cut off from the world of work. It is stressed that most of the peace judges currently in service have had to resign from all other work, so the reform would probably create additional exodus, magistrates who will have neither pay nor social security. Therefore, there will not be a period of stay in employment of less than twenty years, with the penalty of not even fulfilling the minimum retirement requirements. For this reason we think that it could be envisaged, already in the delegation, a list to be exhausted only for those who request it and who have been performing the duties of honorary magistrate for at least ten years, and in any case only from the moment when this delegation becomes implemented. For the reasons I have tried to explain, this text which we are about to adopt, apart from not solving from our point of view the problem of the organic endowment necessary for the efficient functioning of the justice offices, is seen critically by many stakeholders. As we think that we are once again approving a reform of the monk, which does not protect the honorary judiciary, which under these conditions does not have the serenity to be able to carry out its work with balance and which therefore, in fact, only formally grants some rights and not already those full rights that we would have liked, we will cast a vote of abstention. We are once again faced with a missed opportunity and we believe that the vice of continuing to legislate downwards, as too often happens, even in this legislature, will in the long run bring negative consequences for our country. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u77	Mr Albertini (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, I will give a very brief and very brief summary of the position of our Group, which - in advance - will vote in favour of the measure. The reasons why we are in favour of this bill, which delegates the Government to provide for the varied subject of the honorary judiciary, are soon said. Over the years, the temporary function of the honorary judiciary has led to a definition which has been appropriately indicated with an oxymoron: the precary stabilisation of the judiciary. This legal intervention creates a much more coherent and well-structured framework. Meanwhile, it is defined a single statute of the honorary judiciary, with a uniform discipline in its various articulations (judge of peace, honorary judge, honorary deputy prosecutor) regarding access, duration, training, disciplinary system and also the guarantees of the principle of independence, which in any case must preside over any form of jurisdiction, whether ordinary or honorary. It also goes beyond that deterior concept which attributed to the honorary judiciary the mere task of supplementing in place of the ordinary judge and this function is instead qualified as separate in the various articulations of the trial, in line with the already mentioned - by other colleagues - Article 106 of the Constitution which provides for the existence, alongside the ordinary judge, of the honorary judge. It is also appropriate to introduce legislation relating to the double regime which distinguishes the position of the honorary magistrates in service from the newly recruited ones. The use of the honorary judiciary in the various sections of the process is made clear by precise rules. I now come to a final remark concerning the compensation that is attributed to this type of operators of the jurisdiction: Article 2, paragraph 13, of the bill provides exactly the following: • Predict that the compensation must be paid in a manner appropriate to ensure the prior verification, by the President of the court for the honorary judges of peace and by the prosecutor of the Republic for the honorary deputy prosecutors, of the achievement of the objectives set •. A double track of attribution of compensation is then put into operation: one qualified and related to the function itself and one so to speak variable for which we speak of efficiency and capacity criteria even if - and it is well to specify it and this is the last observation I make - is not indicated a merely quantitative criterion, a sort of piecework, so to speak, to reward the efficiency of the function. If you will allow me to comment, I come from previous business experiences and therefore I do not intend to reject the quality and usefulness of a productivity criterion even in the administration of justice, but I stress that the delicacy of the subject, the quality of the work carried out and the importance of the function carried out in the jurisdiction do not allow to use a criterion linked only to the number of judgments or the number of measures, regardless of the quality and complication of the case as well as the necessary doctrine that must be adopted. In practice, a qualitative and quantitative criterion for rewarding function capacity cannot be excluded. These are my comments. Beyond some criticism, which I do not recall but which can be shared by those who have spoken by contesting here and there some points of the norm, as a whole and with respect to the pre-existing situation of confusion and overlapping of roles, assignments and contradictions in regulatory terms, the measure is certainly desirable and we will vote for it with conviction. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u80	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I should like to say straight away that the 5 Star Movement Group will vote against this bill. It will be a no in substance, dictated by the fact that this draft law delegates does not respond to the demands that have been raised by the world of the honorary judiciary for decades. Of course, it is a discipline that finally called rules that have been lacking for years and that gives a temporal horizon and a more or less organic arrangement to the matter - and what was expected - but the rules proposed in this draft law do not convince us to so much to vote in favour. Despite our negative vote today, of course, if at least some of the points we consider relevant were changed in the next parliamentary passage to the Chamber of Deputies, the 5 Star Movement would be very pleased to be able to vote in favour, but provided that some issues are resolved. In the meantime we note that, in current text, as dismissed after the amending phase, an increase in the organic endowment is expected but a half of the work. There is a substantial reduction in compensation due to the intensive employment of trainees in the trial office, which will require all honorary magistrates to seek additional work. From the choice made before, between full-time and half-full-time, it is likely to pass by law to the semi-full employment of all the honorary magistrates. So, what advantage can there be for justice if the magistrate is to divide on several fronts, where on the one hand there is the work that will have to give sustenance for life and, on the other hand, there is the working perspective of an honorary assignment with an expiration date? This forecast will lead to a dispersion of the professionalism of the most experienced magistrates even before they expire by the end of their term of office, because they will be forced to seek other sources of income, conditioning in a negative way the exercise of judicial functions and generating with all evidence also a conflicting problem in carrying out such a delicate profession as the judicial function together with the free profession or other employment relationships. In this respect, we proposed an amendment, aware that its scope was very strong and would have deserved more time for reflection and debate among the parliamentary groups, but there was no possibility. That amendment, if it had been adopted (but I do not doubt that it will be proposed by our colleagues in the House), provided for a realistic and reasonable horizon for that honorary magistrate who, with six years of seniority, optionally would have opted for a regime of incompatibility with other professions. In fact, the typical problem - let's face it - is that of those who are honorary magistrates and are also lawyers and are authorized to exercise the free profession outside the district in which they carry out judicial functions. This does not involve a direct conflict, but it is still a distortion of the principle, to which we should stick, of the third magistrate, free and independent. If we could have given the option of opting for an incompatibility regime, accompanying, on request, until the 70th year of age, these magistrates who would have wanted to devote all their energies to this task in some conflicting situations of interest, we would have done an excellent job, while at the same time guaranteeing these people an economic treatment. It is not so much an economic question; in fact, what is known to be the vulnus and the difficulty in their situation is to be deprived of all the protections that are typical of the employee, being first subject to a temporal precariousness and then to the absence of all forms of health and accident care in the exercise of their work. There are also no holidays or permits. Moreover, since in a few hours we will celebrate the 70th anniversary of the attribution of the right to vote to women in Italy and the day before yesterday we celebrated 8 March, the thought goes also to those honorary magistrates women, who are many [[Applause from Senator Castaldi]] They have also written to us - I believe in our e-mail boxes - that they are forced, in the period of compulsory maternity abstention, which lasts at least five months, to survive without any kind of remuneration. Celebrating women then and worrying about the family also means thinking about these concrete cases. At least for that area of work, Parliament should take concrete action to give support to women and motherhood (since many seem to hold on to us so much). That amendment would therefore have accompanied these magistrates in a - we believe - sustainable way, but it would also have been possible to amend it. We had also tried to reformulate it on the agenda and perhaps this is a job that can be done in the House, to ensure contributory continuity at least for those who would opt for an incompatibility regime. These people would say, I make the honorary magistrate, I do only this and I do nothing else; I also try to do it well and I am subject to all the quality judgments, but that I are guaranteed at least those minimum conditions, such as, for example, the contributory continuity, we had proposed it, keeping it clearly at the expense of the State as regards the social security funds of their respective orders of belonging, or at the expense of the INPS in the case of a public employee. On the other hand, there is also a curiosity on the point. I am referring to an article dating back to 2012, therefore to the last legislature, when we were still not there, on the basis of which the Democratic Party program set out by the current Minister of Justice, who at the time was responsible for the Democratic Party's justice sector, in a democratic Magistracy meeting, with regard to the honorary judiciary seemed to agree at least in part with these assumptions of stabilisation (which then is not stabilisation). In fact, reference was made to a transitional discipline that should have guaranteed the confirmation of the judges of peace, of the honorary judges of the court and of the deputy prosecutors honorary in service on the date of entry into force of the law for further four years until the completion of the seventieth year of age. That is to say that the Democratic Party today expresses a political position exactly opposite to what it claimed less than four years ago - through the very authoritative person of the current Minister of Justice, at the time responsible for the Democratic Party's justice sector - and different from what we support. It is also envisaged that the honorary magistrates should take measures in accordance with the directives of the professional magistrate. In this case too, this is a dangerous principle which, apart from a reasonable activity of interpretative coordination, jurisprudential or judicial practice in the district or in the court, involves the risk of a subjection of the honorary magistrate to the directives of the professional magistrate or togato, with all the risks that this would entail, perhaps also, as was feared a moment ago by a colleague, of a probable litigation, that one tomorrow could be raised by the honorary magistrates. In fact, they could argue that their relationship, beyond the formal honorability of the function, was directed in accordance with the directives of a superior and this could give substance to a request for stabilization proper to the State. Finally, I very much appreciated the emphasis made by a colleague who preceded me on the difference in pay compared to the measures of referral to court or of filing, where it would be cheaper for the honorary magistrate to order referral to judgment rather than a filing order or at least absolute. This does not reassure the citizen, who should have the right to approach justice knowing that he is before a judge who, togato or honorary, is in a position to be truly free, independent and third, without the implicit conditioning that he might have knowing that his own remuneration depends on the judgment he expresses (especially if it concerns the merit in criminal matters, therefore the continuation or closure of a criminal judgment). Personally, in that case I would feel less guaranteed. Finally, there is the problem of the delegations that this Government, as we have seen, has the bad habit of writing in such a general way that they are almost white delegations. As usual, guiding principles and criteria are not specified in many cases. For all the comments I have tried to summarise, the 5 Star Movement will vote against the draft law in question, leaving an open door - I repeat - for the continuation of parliamentary work, if in the other branch of Parliament we can solve some of the problems we have highlighted, trusting that there can be a better text, on which perhaps we can vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u83	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, without joy, indeed, with great regret, the Forza Italia Group will vote against this measure, even though our Group has been the one that since 2011 has proposed a serious change in the legal system of the honorary judges. Why are we voting against this? Because this measure, even though it has received, thanks also to our insistence, some significant changes, in particular on the four four-year-olds of stay in service for those who are in service today, is, in some respects, affected by a wrong idea. This idea wants the honorary judges as not entitled to exercise jurisdiction. An idea that emerges from the fabric of this delegation law, which demonstrates, on several occasions and on several points, the lack of trust and appreciation of the work carried out by the honorary judges, and this in contrast to our Constitution. The Italian Constitution, in paragraph 2 of Article 106, expressly says: The law on the judicial order may allow the appointment, even elective, of honorary magistrates for all duties assigned to individual judges. What concept, then, does the Constitution express? We have chosen, with the Constitution, the model of the judge inscribed with the competition in a bureaucratic system. The magistrate wins the contest and is a judge. In other systems, however, the judge repeats his legitimacy to exercise jurisdiction from popular election. The judge selected for competition repeats his legitimacy from professionalism and from the continuous updating regarding the initial moment of the contest. Having provided for honorary judges the possibility of election therefore means that the honorary judge had such legitimacy as to be provided as a single judge, with the replacement of the duties of the career judge performing those functions alone. On the other hand, we have found ourselves in a law of delegation of complete distrust, with the introduction of a first four-year period (which, finally, thanks to the rapporteur, has been reduced to two years) which contradicts the Constitutional Charter. At the time when the honorary magistrate is placed in the office for the trial, dependent on the substitute or the judge, the Constitutional Charter is not respected. That judge must be assigned his own functions. That this is a further mistake is demonstrated by the fact that you have copied the condition I have indicated, which legitimated the attribution of individual proceedings to the honorary judges. You translated that same condition to legitimize your system. Here too, it was not enough not only to include the honorary judge for the first two years in a system of control, but to have such a distrust of him as to have included, in Article 2 (5) (b), which, after the first four years, the President of the court may proceed to the indeterminate application of the honorary judge of peace as a member of the court of civil and criminal judges. Why would you do that, if not because you want to control it further and not give it its own functions? In addition, you have already maintained, in recent years, the wrong rule that introduced the GOTs into court only as a supplement to the missing judge and not with the attribution of its own jurisdiction. Compared to this solution we have highlighted some inconsistencies, while we have appreciated other aspects. We fought from the beginning, when you had even planned three four-year-olds and wanted to confirm your pension at the age of sixty-eight, because you wanted to make a distinction with the ordinary judiciary. We have just voted that the age is seventy years for everyone, so why make a different standard? It's all left in an absolute generality. With regard to the determination of remuneration, I have at least been allowed to say that these are those currently in force. But the Budget Commission says that there is an opening up, there is no limit. But up there is no limit: in the law that you are approving not only there is no limit, but even in the legislation on the invariance of spending you introduce a criterion with the awareness that those legislative decrees may not have coverage. So you will be forced to say that the decrees will not enter into force and the government will have to find funds for the cover. In addition, you have no confidence in these people, who would have needed, precisely for the work they do, a fundamental appreciation. You see, jurisdiction is unique and I'm sorry that the PD Group Leader in the Justice Commission, Senator Lumia, probably doesn't show attention, just as we don't all have attention, with the responsibilities of my Group and all the Groups. When it comes to citizens' rights, there is a lack of attention in this House, because in fact you refer exclusively to the decisions of the party, to those who are succumbing in turn to the decisions of an absent government, which has no sense of responsibility. How is it possible to accept that there is a lack of consideration of jurisdiction? These are fundamental principles that are at the heart of state reform and that we have developed together with the Democratic Party (then Communist Party). On those occasions we have always said together that it was not possible, because of the conditioning power that he had, an opinion of the Bar for ordinary magistrates on the occasion of the evaluation of professionalism or promotions. How can you put such a thing in today's confirmation? Do you realize that this means conditioning the honorary judge to the confirmation of the famous lawyer, influential in his own council of the order, who could give indications of non-confirmation? How useful do you want to introduce a general rule on social security and care when you have not even introduced a pregnancy rule? How is it possible for you to say that we should make a general pension with allowances without telling us anything about the honorary judges and when you build a building that allows us to assume a decrease in compensation? There is absolutely no attention; we all know that this provision is disgusting. You did not want to accept an extension of a year, but you wanted to introduce with a confidence the extension to 14 May 2016, knowing very well that this law will not be operational by 2016 and that at most the law will be passed but there will be no legislative decrees. What should we expect then? A further measure? When will they be extended, rapporteur and representative of the Government? Does this mean when we are able to ensure and plan the commitment of justice? We all know what they're giving. What's the plan, how to organize? It's a month and a half away. How can honorary judges, court presidents and heads of offices who have to organize the work be organized? You didn't give anything, not even for the extension. I am very sorry to conclude, for the reasons I have already explained. It only took a little time to adjust the measure further. Some things we have achieved together; others, however, denounce - on the one hand - a disregard of the work done by the honorary judiciary and - on the other hand - a generality that leaves us puzzled and does not allow us to express an effective assessment of what the Government's understanding is. We would have had to guarantee precisely how long the application to the office can last for the process of one who has passed the first two years and what are the terms that must be introduced for the internship. And instead, there's nothing. For this reason, Mr President, despite the positive aspects, to reaffirm the strong value of the honorary judiciary for proper administration of justice in our country, we will vote against. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u84	We greet students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo - Giuseppe Ungaretti in Teverola, in the province of Caserta, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u87	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with another important reform that the Senate is preparing to launch, a reform that has been awaited for many years. Many governments have succeeded, but no one has been able to propose a reform shared by Parliament. I remind all the senators that, in addition to the government's delegation law, six draft laws were in place by the various parliamentary groups, including, of course, that of the Democratic Party. I remind my colleagues that the honorary judges have been waiting for a reform for many years: 1998 (it's been 18 years), 2008 (it's been eight years), 2009 (it's been seven years). That is why this reform also qualifies and characterizes the work of the majority, the government and I must also say the Senate. So it was in the Justice Commission, where there has been a broad consensus around the text that the rapporteur has presented here in this House. But then, since political reasons often prevail in this House, which are often - alas - extraneous to merit, that is the disorganization and the contrary vote of opposition groups. Colleagues, I remind you all that we finally put in place certain provisions of our Constitution in Articles 102 and 106. This organic reform finally subjects the honorary judiciary to a single statute, applicable to both the peace judges and the honorary courts (the famous GOTs) as well as to the honorary deputy prosecutors (the so-called VPOs). We, ladies and gentlemen, thank the honorary judiciary, which plays an important role in our system and has an important load. But we share, with the most advanced part of their representation, the need to make a good leap in quality, able to give efficiency to their role and dignity to their function, integrating it better with the professional judiciary and empowering it within objectives of change and improvement of the offer of the justice service. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it was not an easy task, which the rapporteur had to develop by sewing together the various proposals and taking account of the various needs, in order to arrive at a final solution of a good level. We have a single statute applicable to peace judges, honorary court judges and honorary deputy prosecutors. Ladies and gentlemen, the functions of the peace judge in both criminal and civil matters have also been extended. It is now expected that the current honorary judges of the court will also be included in the office of the judge of peace, overcoming the distinction between the two figures, who are renamed honorary judges of peace. It is also provided for the inclusion in the judicial honorary requisition, in a joint called office of the Deputy Honorary Prosecutors, within the office of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic at the ordinary court. Ladies and gentlemen, there has also been an intervention on the discipline of the requirements for access to the honorary judiciary, providing, as specified by the Senate's Justice Commission, for the absence of convictions for non-polluting crimes or prison sentences for infringements and for never having been subjected to prevention and security measures, without prejudice to the effects of rehabilitation. Information has been given on how to access the honorary judiciary and preferential titles for the appointment of honorary magistrate in favour of those who have exercised judicial functions in honorary capacity, lawyers, notaries and university professors in legal matters, as well as in favour of those young people, the best talents of our country, of which we discussed yesterday and on which in the Commission there was a broad convergence regarding the willingness to recognize them the possibility of enjoying a preferential title. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also established, as always agreed in the Justice Commission, the allocation to the autonomous section of the judicial council of competences to issue a notice of competition, to instruct and evaluate applications, to formulate, at the outcome of the free internship to be carried out by a entrusted professional magistrate, a judgment of suitability and to propose a ranking of suitable for the appointment of ordinary magistrates. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the work done has been very valuable. I also recall the amendments tabled by the rapporteur in this House and approved, with the expectation that, after the first four-year term of office, the function of Honorary Judge of Peace can only be confirmed for another four years and, therefore, the overall term of office cannot exceed eight years altogether. However, attention should be paid to the fact that it is expected that the honorary magistrates confirmed for two four-year-olds will be awarded a title of preference with equal merit in the competitions launched by the State administrations. This also seems to me to be an important work which represents a solution that qualifies the work of the honorary judiciary. Another amendment tabled by the rapporteur and approved details the principles and guiding criteria of the delegation in respect of the compensation of the honorary magistrates. Moreover, for the first time, a social security and welfare scheme is identified which is naturally compatible with the honorary nature of the task, in order to allow the absence of legislation in the current legislation to be overcome. We have also provided for an important transitional regime for the honorary magistrates in service on the date of entry into force of the legislative decrees, which is recognized as being able to be confirmed in office for four terms, each of which lasts four years, so that the activity of many of them - I would say the vast majority - can continue until the so-called pension. We will fight again because in the delegation that the Government is called to exercise better qualified the social security nature of rights which, for us too, are important and, indeed, are still a point to be improved, as has often been said in the Commission and reiterated by the rapporteur in the illustrative report of the important bill under consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, it is for these reasons that this piece of reform shows, once again, that - at last - in this legislature the reform of justice is no longer a chimera, nor a field of confrontation between different options around ad personam objectives. Finally, we put ourselves in the place of the citizen, to whom we must look seriously and rigorously, making proposals for reform and proceeding with their implementation. That is what is happening this morning and it will happen in relation to other important reform points in order to change and innovate a complex system such as our justice system. I conclude by announcing that the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this reform. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u89	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u90	D'ANNA (AL-A). Mr President, I disagree with the statement made by Senator Falanga for three very simple reasons. I'm starting with the system. If it is inspired by liberality, it aims first of all to safeguard the first good of the citizen, that is, his rights and his own freedom. The fact that the so-called honorary judiciary is being disciplined must not lead us to believe that its judges are of the B series, because the effects of the judgments they have issued are not of the inferior rank. They relate to specific cases which are not of particular importance in terms of the freedoms of citizens, but which are directly affecting interests and issues which cannot be considered second-order. I remind myself that the Institute of the Honorary Magistrate was a warm cloth adopted some time ago in the face of impotence, perplexity and the length of time that the so-called official judiciary had and still makes record regarding the speed of the trials and, therefore, the certainty of the right of those who address the magistrate in the streets - let's say - ordinary. We are now going to regulate something that concerns justice as such, and not serious justice. And Senator Lumia should explain to us how it is possible to imagine a salary to this magistrate, however honorary, diversified in relation to the type of sentence he issues. If he makes a filing judgment, it seems to me to be a dozen euros. If, on the other hand, it refers to judgment, the remuneration increases. Is this not a principle of subversion of common sense? Can't this bizarre picture an incitement for those who judge to refer the judge to trial? In this House I have seen many lawyers worry about a number of issues and the rapporteur, Mr Cucca, has been repeatedly urged to reply, but I wonder: is this not an interference of the legislator? Isn't this a little orthodox address that the legislator gives to the magistrate who has to judge by binding his remuneration on the type of judgment he issues? Is this not a further intrusiveness of legislation towards determinations that the magistrate should assume in full autonomy and without other prejudices or interests? I believe that we are going, once again, beyond what should be the role and function of the State. Senator Lumia reminded us with great elegance that this is part of the reform of justice and that before the reforms were done ad personam. I am well aware that Senator Lumia imagines that the laws must be done against personam because, if they did before in favor of people, now we do against people. I believe that both approaches are prejudiced and when justice moves for prejudice and passion, it is never serene and fair. Therefore, I will abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u91	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill n. 1738, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Consequently, the draft law no. 548, 630, 1056, 1202, 1292 and 1798. Colleagues, as communicated to the Groups, at 12.00 will be remembered the 70th anniversary of the recognition of the right to vote to women in Italy. I therefore suspend the sitting until 12 noon. (The sitting was suspended at 11:52 a.m. and resumed at 12:03 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u94	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was March 10, 1946, seventy years ago, the day of the first vote of Italian women. In order to decide whether or not to recognize the vote for women, the road has been very long, so many acts and so many deepenings have been done. Think, it was even done a sort of survey at the beginning of the twentieth century, a research carried out between 1903 and 1905, a cognitive survey that made use of many testimonies of very important characters of the time. To understand what was at that time, in Italy of the early twentieth century, the idea on this topic I will mention two of those testimonies. The first is that of the professor, university professor of the University of Pavia, Rina Monti. On the first question ('You must recognize the right to vote (...) to women?'), she replied that, in general, yes, you can do so, 'because every right must be won by those who miss it. No concession is profitable to those who do not know the value of the concession. To the second question (would extend the vote to women today,) Professor Rina Monti replied no (we speak of 1905), arguing: "Why the vote to women today in Italy would mark the advent of a political, administrative and intellectual reaction, which has never been seen." And he continues: "It would be like jeopardising the freedom of science. Women in Italy, certainly because of the males, are still too unaware of public life, too far from any positive education, and therefore slaves of religious prejudice, which makes them docile instructions of priests, depositaries of all antiquated ideas, of all secular errors, of all antiscientific misoneism. Before giving the vow to women it is necessary to make their education alive and modern, destroy their atavistic prejudices, give them an independent personality. It is all a long work that remains to be done. It was 1905. But in the same survey and in the same cognitive survey was heard Professor Maria Montessori, whom all of us still remember today. And you, on the other hand, firmly said yes: you have to give the vote to women now, today, because there is universal suffrage: if it is universal, how can we exclude more than half humanity? At present in Italy there are so many workers among workers, teachers, employed in public administrations, who also make a serious contribution to social work: while they do not have human rights and their compensation for their work. In order to achieve the work of justice at the work of women, solidarity and parliamentary defence is required. Attention, colleagues, it was 1905 and Montessori said: "Now there will be no Members who, for the sake of solidarity and the defence of women, dedicate their existence to political men - as would be necessary - if women cannot give their vote, that is to say, have them elected." Well, it was 1905 and from that cognitive investigation it came to 1946. Those of March 10, 1946 were the local elections, the first local elections after Fascism, which renewed 436 municipalities. All Italians who had turned 21 voted for the first time. They were the first elections free from fascism and that same day it was very important, because Italian women were recognized, by a decree, also the right to the passive electorate. Precisely with those elections, a large number of women - you think, only twenty-one, but for that time many of over 500 seats - were elected to the Constitution; a group of women to whom mine and our thoughts go; women who made the history of Italy and our democracy. On June 2 of the same year women were also called to the referendum vote to choose between the monarchy and the Republic. And speaking of June 2nd, I found a beautiful testimony, recalled by President Fedeli a few days ago, of a journalist, Anna Garofalo, who said that day: We all have a void in our chest for days of examination, we mentally review the lesson: that symbol, that sign, a cross next to that name. Let's squeeze the cards like love cards. You can see many folding stools in the arm of fearful women getting tired in the long rows in front of the seats. And a lot of puffy pockets for the breakfast package. The conversations that arise between man and woman have a different tone, on equal terms. That was the case in those years when women were preparing to obtain their first right to vote. Today we have, as a bully, yet another issue to be addressed, which is that of gender representation, which has moved on to the advancement of equal democracy. In this Senate, thanks to the work of all of us, we have, in recent months, achieved important results. I am thinking of changing the rules for the elections of Members of the European Parliament. I am thinking of the new electoral law that provides for double gender preference, which we have already tested and experienced in some municipalities, and the anti-discrimination rule that prohibits over 60% of candidates of the same sex among the capilists. The real achievement for which we all still have to work is precisely this: to obtain equal representation of women in those places where the decision-making processes take place. This too will depend on the future quality of our democracy. In this regard, however, a great educational and cultural effort is needed. It is good that in our schools there is a great work of study and study on the contribution of women throughout the Republican path, and not only to fulfill Article 51 of the Constitution. Let us reflect together, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on the extent to which the right of gender representation is granted to our daughters and grandchildren. Our girls go to vote, or worse they choose not to vote, considering this a right acquired, a right taken, a right due. For them the memory is still too short, especially - I think - because of us. Well, it is in this grave risk of irrelevance that I still see large cultural gaps. We still have a lot to achieve and a lot of it will soon be achieved. I am thinking of the full implementation of the Istanbul Convention, one of the first acts voted in this Senate, as soon as we have settled down, which aims to eradicate the horrible scourge of violence against women. I remember that there is still a long way to go, especially in educational terms. We must make maternity really a free choice, fighting against the resignation in white and giving concreteness to the extension of maternity and paternity leave. All together, we still have to stop the existing penalties in the workplace - in view of pay discrimination - and finally fully comply with those constitutional requirements laid down in Articles 3 and 51, in order to achieve a better balance between men and women in the elected assemblies. I remind you that, in civil Italy and in the modern struggle for equal representation, there are still Regions with only one elected and one Region, Basilicata, with a Regional Council of only men. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u97	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, today marks the 70th anniversary of the vote on women who, during the period of fascism, were inappropriately prevented. During that period of restrictions on freedom, women were considered to be the pillar of the family, but nothing more. In 1946, democracy finally returned, women could become the protagonists of society, contributing to the construction of a new democratic path, including through the vote. Today, attention is high on the role of women, who unfortunately still have some prejudices and gaps in certain roles, but also disparities with men in pay and pension levels. But this gap in Italy is closing and women are gaining more and more new roles as protagonists in school and work. We are historically at a more advanced level in the function of women in society. Today women sit in Parliament, in the most authoritative institutions and in the boards of directors of the societies that make our country grow. Our thoughts, in these days, certainly go to the women of those territories of the world who, in the name of interpretations of the Islamic laws given by men, suffer brutal limitations, and not only to the right to vote, but also to their own freedom. But let us not forget that, while we are talking, in some part of Italy or the world, a woman is suffering violence. Just as we do not forget the aberrant phenomenon of feminicide almost as a daily fact. We must give dignity to the woman, help her to stand tall, in every area and in every role she plays. Our work as legislators is to permanently close every gap between men and women in Italy and to work to ensure that in international fora there is a determination to restore freedom to women in all parts of the world. Our goal is to look at those great Western democracies where the role of the woman who marks the apical levels of society and pursues progress in the economic and scientific fields. And in this sense, our thanks go to all those Italian women who, in international fora, play roles to stimulate innovation and the growth of well-being on the planet. But let us not forget that every legitimate goal of career can and must be combined with the main role of every woman, that of being a mother, at the heart of the family, but with more rights and expectations than in the past. I therefore hope that contemporary society will increasingly evolve in the direction of ensuring more active and more rights for women. ( [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u100	ANITORI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a day in history that has always been unmarked: a day of seventy years ago, when Italian women for the first time abandoned the domestic fireplace for a few hours and lined up in front of the seats in a nation still half destroyed by war. That day was not, as many believe, on June 2, 1946, when we voted to choose between monarchy and republic and elect the constituent assembly. Almost three months earlier, on March 10 of that same year, the first round of local elections was held that would lead to the first mayors elected after the twenty-year period. And it would be the citizens of both sexes who would vote: a conquest that came after years of battle and much later than other women in Europe and the United States. Women and the right to vote: it seems obvious, but until the middle of the last century it was not at all. Scrolling through the world ranking of the countries that first approved the women's suffrage, New Zealand took the lead in 1893, followed by Australia and the Scandinavian countries at the beginning of the twentieth century, then Russia, with the October Revolution, Great Britain and Germany after the First World War and the United States in 1920. Italy approves the women's suffrage only at the end of the last war, only after a long and difficult journey, begun in 1877, when Anna Maria Mozzoni, considered the pioneer of our feminism, presented Parliament with the first petition in favour of the women's vote. Since then it has taken another seventy years before Italian women could begin to express their political opinion through the vote. The turnout of women at the polling stations was very high and the emotional participation was intense. On those first Sundays of democracy, after years of dictatorship and war, over 89 percent of women with rights went to the polls, while 2,000 candidates were elected in the various municipal councils. The vote took place in five spring rounds with the election of almost 6,000 administrations and the involvement of 71 percent of the Italian population. It was voted on from March 10, every Sunday, until April 7, while another 1,400 municipalities were renovated in the autumn, with another eight rounds between October and November. A first female presence was held in the National Council. The non-elective assembly, composed of members of the parties of the National Liberation Committee, served as Parliament between 1945 and June 2, 1946 and saw the appointment of 13 out of 460 women. The parties themselves, at least those who had emerged stronger from the War of Liberation, had now sensed that the time had come for the vote. The Christian Democracy and the Italian Communist Party were aware that a new system of mass democracy was being built and it would have been anachronistic to build it without women. On the question of voting, the words of Pope Pius XII, who gave in a certain sense his blessing, after for a long time the Church of Rome had seen with terror the possibility of women going to vote. The conquest of the right to vote was felt by women as the first fundamental step in her process of emancipation, which is recognition of equal rights with man and his identity as a whole. The right to vote was not only felt as the right to choose one's own political representatives and to be elected, but as the removal of a series of rules that saw the woman subordinate to man, starting from the lack of economic autonomy. The right to vote has therefore paved the way for a more democratic society. Moreover, in the social sphere, many changes affecting women and their participation in the labour market, family life and educational attainment must be highlighted. It is the Constitutional Court itself, in 1960, who declared the rule that excluded women from a wide range of public offices illegal. In the following years, the legislator with a series of measures and laws has allowed an ever greater substantial equality, greatly improving the situation in many strategic sectors for our country, such as social, working and educational. However, some official data on the presence of women in the institutions show that there is still a long way to go. Unfortunately, even today, according to ISTAT data of 2013, among the municipal administrators in office, 78.7% are men and only 21.3 women; only 11.7% are women mayors and in the current Italian Parliament, among other things with the largest female presence in republican history, women constitute only 30%. There is still a long way to go. The OECD, with a study published on the occasion of Women's Day, also recalled that the reduction of female participation in the workforce and total productivity, resulting from the failure to complete gender equality in society and in the world of work, has a substantial impact on the global economy, with a direct cost of about $12,000 billion, equal to 16% of the world's gross domestic product. The international body therefore urges individual nations to eliminate discrimination against women and to promote equal opportunities, calling them both economically intelligent choices and important levers for sustainable and inclusive growth. There is, therefore, still a gap between formal equality, pronounced and celebrated on every occasion, and the substantial equality between men and women, which is much more difficult to achieve. And it is in this sense that we still have to work: the institutions must work, politics must be committed, civil society must also act. The private sector must support the public in providing services. We must spread a culture of equality at all levels of society and we must explain to the girls what achievements they can benefit from today. And women must also and above all do this, just as they must continue in their commitment to their affirmation and realization, without quotas and without reservations, for the recognition of their proper role in society, with dignity and courage. To conclude, I would like to mention the latest achievements that Parliament's sensitivity has achieved in terms of gender equality in political representation. In particular, with the constitutional reform some provisions on gender equality have been incorporated into the Charter in the composition of the new Chambers, as well as in the composition of the Regional Councils. And, again, I recall the new electoral law for the House of Deputies with the rules in favour of gender representation, both in alternating succession on lists and in the number of capilists. Gradual, but significant, achievements to guarantee women its natural centrality in the social, political and economic life of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u103	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is good to celebrate women, but when we celebrate them, we are still far from equality. So, it makes me very sad, even today, to have to celebrate the vote of women when we are now beyond, when we are no longer talking about gender but about gender nuances in the law on civil unions (which, unfortunately, had the outcome that we have seen). I don't want to make a summary of all the feminine conquests already made by my colleagues. The right to vote seems to me to be the least. In these seventy years, however, in addition to the right to vote, very little has been done because, as emerges from a report by the non-governmental organization Oxfam Italy, what history does not teach us about women's rights is the real cost of inequality and austerity in Europe. It is easy to talk about pink quotas, how many women sit in Parliament, how many are present in the institutions and how many are working, but few stop to see what the life of women in society is. The life of women in society, unfortunately, is to replace a social state that no longer exists. Beyond what the celebrations of this Parliament say, where we are very protected and privileged (both men and women), the lives of women in cities are very different. It is different because over the years you have dismantled the social state, scientifically and very carefully. You've cut down on public school. I do not know how many of you have children who go to school and therefore know how difficult it is to support a social and committed life when you have children in public school, who do not provide any support; when you have elderly parents, for whom there is no care; when there is no health care that supports you; when you have friends who suffer violence and tell you that they do not know where to go, because no one helps them, because there are no more consultors and no more assistance. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is the true freedom of women. We can even get her to vote, but they don't even want to vote anymore, because no one is helping them. There is no point in calling for rose quotas and constitutional reform for women. Constitutional reform is to give even more power to those who hold it and delegated women to the last place. You should be ashamed to call for constitutional reform for the protection of women! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] One important point is this. How can women be protected when supporting austerity policies in Europe? I want to talk to you about this issue, because it is easy to say that we expect pink quotas when we then go to Europe and do not punch on the table to support families in difficulty. Also because it is in families that women work. The Oxfam Italia report, "The real cost of inequality and austerity in Europe," published in September 2013, says that in 2011 alone, 120 million people in the European Union had to face the prospect of living in poverty. Oxfam estimates that this number could grow by at least 15 million, as a result of prolonged austerity measures. Among the new poor, it is already known that women will be the most affected. There are alarming situations in the report itself. Since 2010, health spending in Europe has declined for the first time in decades. In Ireland and Greece, spending cuts exceeded 6%, reversing a decade of growth with negative impacts on public health. In the dossier of the Italian Caritas "Youth wounded" published in January 2015, it is stated that in Greece, because of the impossibility of guaranteeing a future for their children, the abandonment of children has increased by 336 percent in the last five years. The data on infant mortality are worrying. These are the data from your government. In Italy one in four women renounces taking care of themselves to dedicate money to family expenses. This is your love for women. This is what emerges from the volume "Women's health: analysis and intervention strategies," edited by the National Observatory on Women's Health. This is not only an Italian situation: one fifth of European women develop a tumor before the age of 75 and almost a third could be identified by the prevention and reduction of risk factors. I don't want to prolong these celebrations, which I don't love. I would like to see concrete action from this Parliament in relation to not the pink quotas, not the numbers, not the women put there just to make numbers, because then when there is a father master, a mother master, a master being it is good to admit women in positions of power as counterfigures. I would like to remind you that, beyond all your good intentions about pink quotas, in these administrative offices on forty candidates mayors of all parties only eight are women, and four of these women are of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which has one hundred percent of the female presences on the lists of major cities. In the 5 Star Movement, when you leave freedom to the citizens, when no one has to stay behind and when you have free hands to choose, there is no need to distinguish between men and women, because the people who most represent citizens, men or women will be elected. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u106	Mr Repetti (AL-A). Mr President, a few words to recall, seventy years after the women's vote in Italy, all those courageous women who changed history, or rather started a path of change in the matter of justice and civil rights. In these days, thanks also to a famous film, we talk about the so-called struggle of the sucfragette, a term that I want to remember being despicable with the meaning: "but where do they want to go?." I say this because they are recurrent words to this day, in the face of every legitimate ambition of women. I said, the struggle of the Suffragettes was not only a cultural and intellectual witness, but a hard political battle, which also came to strong demonstration. This means that the conquest of rights was not easy even in a country like Great Britain, where the full right to vote for women arrived in 1928, and in Italy only about twenty years later. But the path to equal rights has been winding and difficult, and still is, because cultural changes never follow the pace of legislative changes. A law, though absolutely fundamental, is not enough to change the mindset and culture of a country. Seventy years were not enough for women to achieve full equality of rights. There is still much masculinism in our culture, in our country; it is breathed - alas - even in this House, even now, every day, even if in a more sneaky way and therefore, in my opinion, even more cowardly. And to masculinism unfortunately sometimes is added also - we women must admit - a self-ghettization our own, which often oscillates between an ideological feminism and a subjection towards the dominant culture of men. We women must get rid of both positions by relying more on ourselves, not as women, but as people, as human beings. The full achievement of equal rights is linked above all to the problem of education in families and schools, and unfortunately our country still shows many shortcomings. Because the real point - let me say - is this: the issues that concern civil rights and the achievement of their equality are important not only for those who do not see them recognized in part or in full, they are not only important for women or for homosexuals, but they are important for everyone, even for those who live a position of privilege. It is important to understand this, because a country in which there is social justice, equal rights and equal opportunities is a country capable of growing, is a country capable of giving value to merit, is a country capable of giving a dignified future to all. In conclusion, it is a better country for everyone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u107	We greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Secondary Education "Luigi De' Medici" in Ottaviano, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u110	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, seventy years ago - as my colleagues pointed out - women were granted the right to vote on 10 March 1946. It was an important historical fact, which was a fundamental step in the construction of the idea of citizenship defined by our Constitution. After the dark years of fascism and war, it was the lives and sacrifice of the last, of the workers, of the peasants, of the workers, of the intellectuals, to animate the resistance as a moment of ransom and democratic rebirth. A leading role was played by women, the protagonists of a battle for freedom at a dramatic time in our history. Telling today's girls and boys that women, until seventy years ago, couldn't vote, is a bit like talking to them about prehistory. On March 10, seventy years ago there was the conquest of political rights, which was not, as is often told quickly in the history books today, a concession or extension of democratic principles, but was the result of a hard and long battle that women did in first person and not only. The battle for equality of access to the public sphere, that public sphere that had been built, over the centuries and millennia, precisely with the exclusion of women, was closely linked to the battle of emancipation from the role of mother and wife, from a secondary role in society. It was no coincidence that for the first time women took part in the vote, on March 10, for the local elections, with an unthinkable turnout today: 89 percent. Over 2,000 candidates were elected to municipal councils, mostly on left-wing lists. Women, therefore, took responsibility for public life, social life, the lives of their own cities, their own countries, their own citizens; and thus denied those who thought that Italian women were not ready to take part in the democratic life of the country. The 21 women elected to the constituent assembly (out of 156 MPs) were decisive in writing the new Constitution and its principles of equality and equality. It was the Socialist Merlin who - I remember - had gender equality included in Article 3 and we all remember the role of Teresa Mattei (among other things, in a few days, it is the third anniversary of her death), a fundamental role for the drafting of Article 3 of the Constitution; her fact has made Article 3 a categorical imperative for equality. The battle on the right to vote went further and allowed to open the way to important but tiring conquests for the freedom and rights of women; very hard years of struggles, which involved all, parties, unions, society as a whole. They were important struggles for access to the world of work and the recognition of social rights and freedom; long years, marked also by great defeats and battles still to be done and not at all simple. Today, with great responsibilities of my generation, there is a risk of taking everything for granted. We risk losing our memory, but above all we are addicted to a system that today, on the other hand, takes many steps back from the issue of equality. So it is up to us, who are playing this important institutional role, to collect the witness and resume the thread of equality yet to be weaved. We don't want to run into the usual ritual of celebrations. If our debate makes sense today, it is because we could perhaps use this confrontation of ours to make commitments and, above all, to commit ourselves to respecting them in a cross-cutting way, even if the logics of party and belonging will indicate that they do something else and take other paths. This, moreover, was the spirit of the women who fought for the recognition of the right to vote and this was the political choice of women in the constituent Assembly. We could make a list of our future commitments: equality of presence on the electoral roll, equality always when it is necessary to indicate quotas (no more than 60 and 40%, but courageously 50 and 50%), equality of access to work, equal pay, measures to protect family welfare, freedom of choice (for example, no to doctors who object in the public service), protection of women's health, especially in the workplace. For example, Senator Barozzino always tells about the working conditions of women in white suits in the factories of Melfi and about this we could perhaps start giving concrete indications. Continuing, the list of future commitments also covers the fight against gender violence and the recruitment of all precarious public schools. Of course, it is a partial list to be supplemented, but what is important is the pact we make between us across the board: this would be the novelty. It has already been recalled that a film on the recognition of women's vote is being screened in cinemas these days. It would be necessary and useful to have this film screened in all schools, because it is good that this battle, which has paved the way for many other achievements, can be a patrimony of all. Above all, we would like to start work on equality from schools, because we know that the fight against discrimination and equality must start there. I had noticed among the government files the presence of the Undersecretary D'Onghia and I thought it could be a topic to be included in the various POFs of the school. It could be interesting, because it is a job that must involve everyone: girls and children, boys and girls, men and women. This would not only be an exercise for memory, but a joint work for the future, the rights and freedoms of all. Finally, excuse me, but I have to say that I am somewhat uncomfortable with the debate we are having today, not only for the empty House, but also for the way the subject has been incardinated. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators De Pin and Liuzzi]] We suddenly learned this morning that this issue would be discussed. By the way, I understand that some - many - of our colleagues are signatories to a motion that we could have asked our group leaders to put on the agenda. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bonfrisco]] This is always a little unpleasant and reminds me of one thing. Today I found the text with which a journalist described the first speech on a non-female theme of the first female congresswoman, Maria Lisa Cinciari Rhône, of the Communist Party. I apologize, there is no comparison. The reporter wrote: Among the journalists there was a bike that could be called preventive distrust. Many politicians were taken by the impeccable desire to have a coffee, others went to smoke in the corridors, reappearing from time to time to exchange subtle phrases not too new on the pots that the orator would have boiled and on the socks that she had not been able to mend. I wouldn't want us to be in the same situation today. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bonfrisco. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u113	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I would like to add to the words of my colleague who has just mentioned how the celebration of the 8 March festivity was organized in a hurry this morning, perhaps also to remedy the fact that the House of Deputies has already held the celebration and, more importantly, the Head of State has done so, inviting all the leaders of the institutions to celebrate the International Women's Day. The Senate arrives at this appointment in this way, from my wrong point of view, because it is not coordinated and concerted especially among those Members, that is all of us, who are more responsible for supporting the action in Parliament, referring to the history of those women who voted for the first time and the history of some particular women who, elected in the constituent Assembly, made an extraordinary contribution. I would like to recall a sentence by Teresa Mattei, which has just been quoted. It is very dear to all of us women, even if of different political orientations. He said: "We do not want our women to masculine, we do not want Italian women to aspire to an absurd identity with man; we simply want them to have the opportunity to expand all their strength, all their energy and all their will for good in the democratic reconstruction of our country." He declared it at his meeting on March 18, 1947. She was one of those 21 women who marked the Constitution we have with their figure. Without those women we will not even have this Constitution, starting with Article 3, broad and solid, written and wanted above all by them. The path of women towards full citizenship began. But in Italy it has been made more crooked than elsewhere, not only by a very strong unevenness of local and regional cultures, but also by the heavy influence of a culture that has for too long favoured the identification of women with the family and the defence of Community works threatened by the processes of modernization. That's what they said back then. In fact, although the constitutional text as a whole represented progress for Italian women, the limits contained in it would have been bound to weigh up to the present day. Article 37, in fact, despite conferring equal rights and equal pay for men and women on equal work, provided for: Working conditions must enable women to fulfil their essential family function. Today we have come to complete this thought, for all this lies at the head of the men and women who make up a family. It is clear that the desires, needs and expectations of the Italian women of the post-war period and the reality, who lived and still live today, are the same, because the vote did not involve the fullness of political rights and, above all, did not correspond for a long time to the fullness of civil rights. The female wage for the same type of work, for example, was always lower and in 1954 the signing of a trade union agreement that established only 16% of the wage difference between workers and workers was accepted as a victory. As you can see, after so many years, today we are still here to discuss it, despite the numbers of school and university education that have been totally overturned by women, to their advantage. At the employment level, the Italian situation was difficult (and still is today), although not as dramatic as in the first post-war period. Women had to defend their jobs, also against the union which strongly protected men's wages and, above all, the working positions of men. This happened when the men returned from the front. The war is over; peace has broken out; reconstruction has begun, but, once again, women pay the highest price. Today, however, they must defend them from flexibility and precariousness, which weighs even more on them because of the lack of flexibility of that State and its services that continue to prevent a fair and balanced participation of women in the labour market in our country and, as happens in other countries, a demographic increase worthy of a country that looks not only to its past, but also to its future. The slow recognition of fundamental rights, obtained thanks to the activism of women's associations that have allowed, with tenacity, a legislative adjustment that, despite resistance and delays, would have allowed to achieve at least a formal legal equality, passed by some important laws, strongly supported by women's parliamentarians, is still a path in half. Women's citizenship has remained and still remains a weak citizenship, made up of partial advances and betrayed expectations. The fullness of women's political rights will not correspond for a long time to the fullness of civil rights acquired very slowly. Suffice it to say that, since 1945, a little at a time, the woman has won a key role, both on the battlefield and in the factories, replacing in fact the man, engaged at the front. This is what happened during the war. However, the law for the protection of mother workers dates back to 1950 - it is still considered one of the most advanced in Europe - which allowed women to enter the administration of justice for the first time in 1956, and which allowed the constitution of the women's police in 1959. The ban on dismissal for marriage dates back to 1963, the repeal of the article on the different treatment - listen to me! - between male adultery and female adultery is 1968 and the divorce law is 1970. Even within the family and in society, with the reform of the family law of 1975, the condition of women has radically changed: the figure of the head of the family has been abolished and women and men have equal rights and equal duties, both on decisions that directly affect the couple and on children. In 1991 Law No 125 on positive actions for the achievement of equality between men and women in work, prodromic to the tiring approval, in 2012, of the Golfo-Mosca law, on pink shares in publicly owned companies and listed companies. I would remind you that we must wait until 1994 for violence against women to be recognised in our code - with an amendment introduced by Parliament, thanks to the activity of many women, even if very late - as a crime against the person and no longer defined as a crime against morality. Only in 2009 is introduced the rule that considers the hateful practice of persecuting acts against women and not only, which goes under the name of stalking. In 2013 we had to tighten the penalties and precautionary measures against feminicide, protecting those who denounce, to help bring out, to get out of the domestic walls often cases of violence, which we no longer want to accept. The debate on the role of women, between the passive electorate and the active electorate, is still under way, as many colleagues have mentioned before me. Administrative electoral laws are a positive action and perhaps - who knows? - even the Italicum can be considered a small step forward, in order to rebalance a representation put to the test by the embarrassment of politics. Let us hope that that electoral law will not continue on the road to the embarrassment of politics. In many countries the vote on women does not coincide with the recognition of civil and social rights and sometimes coexists daily with the violation of human rights. They are known to all Afghan or Iraqi women who, veiled, go to the polls, to represent their right with force. It is clear, therefore, that the history of voting for women is closely linked, from the beginning, to the history of democracy and its redefined, and therefore has not yet ended. In conclusion, Mr President, there are many ways to remember the International Women's Day. There are economic data, which photograph an Italian reality still behind other countries. Women's employment is still 47 percent, against a European average of almost 60%, the presence in managerial roles is 29 percent and that in the boards is 26 percent, only thanks to recent laws. There are studies by the Bank of Italy that if women's employment were 60%, as set by the Lisbon targets, our GDP would rise by 7%. But on the other side of the world there are still girls forced to marry strangers much older than them, to sell their bodies or to work barefoot for two dollars. Many of those women come to us, confused among the desperate journeys of thousands of human beings, destined for a future not better than the one they run away from, in the silence of our cities The condition of these women, victims of the radicalisation of Islam, often also in our country, must make us think. Then there is the ever-greater gap with what happens every day before our eyes, in our countries and in our cities: last year, there were 128 women killed in Italy. Only in the first 50 days of this year there are already 13 victims. They are the ones who did not make it, but infinitely more are those who suffer violence within the domestic walls, without denouncing, in the absolute silence. Well, let this celebration be especially of those women, because there are no political, social and economic achievements to be proud of, as long as there is discrimination and violence on us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u116	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will take you a few seconds to restore a minimum of gender balance, partly because only the senators have intervened, while the omettes have not felt it, although I must say that at this moment they are prevalent in this House where there are more men than women. Despite everything, I would have liked to have had a gender balance in the Presidency this morning too. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Anyway, it was good for us to listen. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Very bad presidencies, my own and yours at the moment: perhaps a women's presidency would have been more welcome. Mr President, I have a question. I particularly appreciated the combination between the festivity of women, which I believe should consist of something more than mere mimosas, with the 70th anniversary of the recognition of the right to vote for women and I ask myself a question. At the Quirinale they celebrate it on March 8th, in the Chamber of Deputies they do it on March 8th; at the Senate we celebrate it on March 10th. Do we have a different time zone or daily? I wonder if, worse still, someone has forgotten (because in that case it would be particularly serious), or if someone already considers this branch of Parliament to be closed. I am convinced that if the Senate is to become what has been foreshadowed by our reform, it might as well be closed; However, as long as there is I would appreciate that drift, which in the debate on reforms I called regime, finds a foundation in what someone may not have thought at this time. With that reform we introduced an indirect election, that is, we limited the active and passive vote to the regional councillors and extended it to the mayors at the level of the regional councillors. Given the number of regional councillors currently present in our country, today we are celebrating a right that was rightly attributed to women seventy years ago and in fact we are restricting this right to vote to a number of categories of persons (in particular regional councillors), where women are less represented than in other places. I agree with all the words that have been expressed, but I would not like to see us on the day of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the recognition of the right to vote for women taking a path that goes in the opposite direction. With what's happening, limiting the Senate vote to certain categories, I wouldn't want anyone to limit the vote to other categories in the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u117	In practice, you too, Senator Calderoli, spoke in the context of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the recognition of the right to vote to women, which was the theme of the speeches. It is true that the topic is also related to the celebrations of March 8 and that the Quirinale has been talked about this theme, but objectively the anniversary goes beyond the deadline of March 8. Perhaps the Senate could be prewarned to have a more careful participation; after that, it was decided, and from this point of view also some groups have emphasized that a planning of the work would allow a wider participation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u120	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, in the country of Penne, in the province of Pescara, since the early 1960s the tailoring plant of the Brijuni brand has been active, which now has more than 1,200 employees. The production of luxury clothing for men and tailor-made garments is known all over the world for the very high quality that brings the brand itself to be a world leader. The far-sighted company policy led the company to inaugurate in 1985 a tailoring school in Penne with the aim of transmitting the Brioni tailoring method to the new generations of tailors. Currently in Abruzzo there are production plants all concentrated in the Vestina area (so Penne, Montebello di Bertona and Civitella Casanova) and - as already mentioned - there are about 1,200 workers. Between 2011 and 2012 Brijuni was acquired by the French group Kering that modified its production characteristics that led to industrial choices different from its traditional craftsmanship. Due to crises due to missed orders, probably, and also to an erroneous industrial policy that tried to change the characteristic Brijuni style, on 11 November 2015 the opening of voluntary mobility was signed, which will remain open until 31 December 2016, for 50 workers. The crisis of orders, however, has led the company to over-production of heads, so much so that in these days it has announced a probable redundancy of 400 jobs. Brijuni, in addition to being the most important industrial production company in the clothing area of the province of Pescara, holds a unique and precious tailoring heritage. The company crisis, anticipated and conceivable well in advance, would inevitably lead to a very serious economic and social crisis in the province of Pescara. The company crisis is so felt at the local level that the public assembly, resulting from the announcement of the reorganization of the company with redundancies of 400 places of work, filled the stands of the municipal stadium of Penne. Therefore, today I strongly ask the Ministers of Labour and Economic Development to turn their attention away from various lobbyisms and requests from multinational companies and to start really thinking about entrepreneurs, the real ones, and the workers, taking immediate initiatives to face the industrial crisis of Brijuni, also promoting tables of comparison with the ownership of the company, the social partners and the regional institutions of Abruzzo, with the aim of protecting employment levels and the tailoring craft tradition. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u123	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak briefly in this House to ask the answer to my written question 4-01854 on attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder or ADHD, addressed to the Minister of Health Lorenzin, who has been presented almost two years ago, on 13 March 2014, and later became the oral answer question 3-02532 for a reply which I hope is now more timely. ADHD is an evolutionary self-control disorder that manifests itself with difficulties of attention, concentration and control of impulses. The ADHD World Federation classifies child hyperactivity as a highly hereditary disease, of which 5 percent of children in the world would suffer, children and adolescents who would be potential recipients of amphetamine therapy. Very often, however, in Italy, especially in school, the normal distraction and liveliness of children is confused with the real ADHD disorder mentioned above, without taking into account that some behaviours of minors are directly attributable to boredom deriving from school activities not adapted to the time of learning of children or to the emotional difficulties related to situations of particular hardships due to family crises, poorly managed or even amplified as a result of inappropriate removals of the child from the family of origin, as is emerging in the hearings of the cognitive investigation on children out of the family that I promoted in the Committee on Childhood and Adolescence. The causes of ADHD are not yet fully defined and a study conducted by the University of Toronto revealed a direct link between ADHD and physical ill-treatment suffered by children. There is therefore considerable lightness of the medical staff in diagnosing it, resulting in widespread pharmacological intervention. In this regard, the use of amphetamine drugs such as Ritalin has shown a worsening of mental functions, the impoverishment of creativity and the loss of emotions by children and adolescents. All this time - it's been years - I haven't had an answer, although the number of visits for ADHD has increased considerably throughout the national territory and not only in the provinces of Teramo and Pescara. I therefore ask Minister Lorenzin to provide the exact number of all children diagnosed and treated for ADHD syndrome, with particular regard to the Abruzzo Region, and to clarify any initiatives he intends to put in place to identify a serious diagnostic path and to respond to the studies and instances of numerous institutes, specialists and associations such as the INPEF, which use a methodological and didactic approach with excellent results. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-590.ana.u124	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 1.05 p.m.
