ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on Thursday 13 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u4	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.45 p.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u10	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, a few days ago, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg visited us in Rome, who, by his goodness, told us that in 2018... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u11	Colleagues, the session is in progress. I ask you to lower the tone of your chatter.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u12	MARTON (M5S). NATO Secretary General informed us that for 2018 Pinotti and Gentiloni ministers decided to send soldiers to Latvia. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Maybe 2018 isn't the right date. MARTON (M5S). No, 2018. On February 26, 2015, Stoltenberg came to the Senate for information to the Defence Commission and I already asked the Secretary General if it was appropriate to continue NATO's enlargement policy towards Russia. I thought it was a provocation then and I think it is even more serious and provocative to send 150 of our military to Latvia, right on the border with Russia. I wonder if every time this kind of thing happens, parliamentarians should know it from some external personalities, such as the Secretary-General of NATO, some other Head of State or any other person outside our ministers of competence. I would ask this House whether we should not end up with this kind of attitude and bring Parliament to the attention of the real intentions of the Government. I strongly call for Mr Pinotti or Mr Gentiloni to report urgently to the House on the statements they have made. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Gentiloni - in my opinion - had some problems, because he said that it is not a provocation to put 150 soldiers, but an act of report. I wonder how you'd react if someone came with a gun to your table asking you to talk. I therefore call on this House to support the request to convene the two Ministers immediately. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u15	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, a few minutes ago, at the meeting of the Defence Commission, which dealt with other issues, I allowed myself, in the various and possible cases, to call for a debate on this subject. I must acknowledge to the President of the Latorre Defence Commission, whom I do not see in this House at the moment but who was here in the building, that I have responded publicly to a request which, in recent days, on behalf of our side, I had made publicly, giving willingness to do so. The incidental communication that would be given in July as part of the multi-galactic description of the Italian missions does not solve the issue. Today, in fact, after the Bratislava summit and what happened, the possible presence of Italian soldiers in Latvia is not seen as a normal rotation operation within NATO, but has appeared, as a signal that aggravates international tension. Beyond the issues that we cannot discuss here, because I am speaking on the order of business and I cannot go into the matter, we are aware of the tensions that are spreading over our companies and the damage that the sanctions have caused. Today we had a good debate in the Defence Committee on the rehabilitation of the First World War. I wish we didn't arrive without discussion at World War III. And I say that knowing that you don't take that risk or, at least, I hope so. We are asking for an immediate debate. We have said this publicly in recent days and we are saying it now in this House. Since we are discussing motions, there seems to be some sort of wait on December 4th. This question cannot be raised on 4 December. We found ourselves with the incardination on August 3rd of the criminal trial. Where'd he go? He's missing. We do not change the agenda according to the tunes or difficulties of the majority. Mr Pinotti, who is also a senator, comes straight to the House and tells us what is going on. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u18	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, let us take advantage of the fact that the issue - which has been dealt with up to now, perhaps only at media level - has been dealt with, on which each of us has responded and invited the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Defence to reflect and review their position, having, in the first place, and indeed, completely bypassed Parliament. There was talk of an information made last summer, but there was talk of a whole other matter. But even then we criticized the decision to go only to do exercises in the Baltic States, because it meant going to the door of the house (to trample the calluses) of a force that at this moment is global and is actually under pressure for an infinite number of reasons. We will then talk about the proposal to extend NATO participation even to a country belonging to the Balkan area, namely the former Yugoslavia, which we are in favour of, but which will allow us to say that perhaps this is not the time to take such steps. It is a time when the Secretary-General of NATO paints Russia as a new global threat, and on this too it should be called to his own responsibility the Secretary-General of NATO. It is a time when the President of the United States has ordered his intelligence structure to operate a cybernetic attack on the Russian IT structural system and, on the other hand, we see reactions that we might also call responsible by the Russian Federation. It is a time when we, belonging to the Organization of the Atlantic Pact, have had to follow NATO in the removal of dictators in North Africa, thinking of stabilising an area, and we have found ourselves with the whole Mediterranean in turmoil. At a time like this, when the last American objective is the removal of the last dictator of the Mediterranean area, al-Assad, knowing that the Russian forces, together with the Syrian government forces, are now the only ones that are able to counter the global danger, that is, international terrorism: well, we think, operating in this way, we destabilize a system and we really put ourselves in a condition of difficulties of bilateral diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation. We therefore ask, as colleagues have already done, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs or even the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence come together to report to the House, because the situation is more serious than that which we have been able to express in a few words. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Pepe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u19	Colleagues, I understand the need represented and I will report it personally to the President of the Senate, because, if you think it appropriate, you urge the Government to report to Parliament on the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u22	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, even in view of the fact that, at the request of some members of the opposition, the 5th Commission has reserved itself a few more hours to express its opinion on the text and amendments to the draft law converting the decree-law on the agenda today, and also taking into account the fact that last week we were unable to vote on the international ratifications, some of which seem to me to be of some urgency, I would like to ask the House to reverse the agenda in order to allow us to deal with ratifications immediately in the afternoon of today and to follow the draft law of conversion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u23	I assume your request is supported by eight group senators. In fact, there is also a problem of continuity of discussion. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, one speaker against and one against may speak on the proposal to reverse the agenda for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u26	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, first of all I would like the eight applicants to be found. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I think it's more than eight. Please, Senator Calderoli. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, apart from the more or less contingent choice of discussing international agreements, I would remind myself and the House that Article 77 of the Constitution provides that the discussion of a law to convert a decree-law should also take place in loose Chambers. Among other things, it is one of the reasons why the President of the Senate can convene the Senate in an extraordinary way and can, without even hearing the Conference of the Leaders, schedule it as a mandatory subject for the Assembly. At the moment it seems strange to me that the majority is proposing that we approve ratifications of international agreements first. In fact, I have the malice to think that it has already been decided to convert the decree-law into the same text approved by the House of Deputies. Theoretically, the text could be amended because of the 150 amendments that have been tabled and should therefore be re-examined by the House. Asking for the reverse of the agenda suggests that confidence in the House's text will be sought.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u29	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am in favour of reversing the agenda, since the Justice Commission had to speed up the timetable last night because it was said that it was necessary to vote immediately to be ready for work in this House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Since I am confident that the majority will also put their trust in this provision, I want to allow the majority itself to loosen the knot. Last night we were prevented from taking part in a vote that was scheduled to take place in conjunction with the work of this House this morning, and today you wanted, instead, to conculcate any possibility for minorities that, with the new constitutional reform, you should ensure as a majority with the Chamber Regulations. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u30	I put to the vote the proposal to reverse the agenda put forward by Senator Russo. It's approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u31	I communicate that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of Economics and Finance...Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 189 of 17 October 2016 on urgent interventions in favour of the populations affected by the earthquake of 24 August 2016 (2567).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u32	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2525. The rapporteur, Senator Pegorer, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u33	Madam President, this draft law brings the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of Montenegro. As you will recall, Montenegro, a country of about 700,000 inhabitants, narrow between the Western Balkans and the Mediterranean and open to European influence, after the dissolution of the Yugoslav State remained linked to Serbia, also due to the prevalent and common Orthodox imprint, in the so-called Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, going through all phases of the war in a painful way. Having become independent in 2006, the Balkan country, which was marked by a progressive improvement in the living conditions of its inhabitants and the prospects for further economic development that could have resulted, has therefore resolutely embarked on the path of European and Atlantic integration. Following the unilateral adoption of the euro as its currency, the process of approaching the European Union officially began in 2008 with the submission of the application for accession, followed by the opening of the relevant negotiations in 2012. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u34	Excuse me, Senator. It is not possible to work with this buzz. I very much ask all the senators to lower their voices, because the House amplifies your voices, which add up and make the debate unmanageable. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u35	Mr Pegorer, rapporteur. To date, Montenegro, as recognised by the European Commission in its 2015 Country Report, has made significant progress in numerous negotiating chapters, including the judicial system and fundamental rights and justice, freedom and security, although it still needs to be improved in the fight against organised crime and corruption. Equally significant, although marked by domestic disputes, was Podgorica's commitment to the Atlantic Alliance, in the wake of what has already been decided by other Balkan countries such as Slovenia, Croatia and Albania. Montenegro's decision to join the NATO Peace Partnership programme since December 2006 has been followed by the launch of joint military exercises in the Adriatic, the official invitation to join the Organization formulated in December 2015 by the 28 Foreign Ministers of the Member States, and, last, the signature in Brussels on 19 May of the Protocol on Accession, today at our examination. First of all, it is stated that the legal basis of the Protocol on the accession of Montenegro is to be found in Article 10 of the NATO Treaty of 1949, under which the parties may, with unanimous agreement, invite any other European State which is in a position to promote the development of the principles of the Treaty and contribute to the security of the North Atlantic region. The international document which is the subject of this ratification, which consists of a preamble and three articles, therefore confines itself to regular times and arrangements for Montenegro's accession to the Atlantic Alliance. In particular, Article 1 provides that the Secretary-General of NATO, on behalf of all parties, shall communicate to the Montenegrin Government an invitation to accede to the North Atlantic Treaty. The following Article 2 regulates the time limits for the entry into force of the Protocol, establishing that, once all the notifications provided for by the parties to the Treaty have been received, it is the Government of the United States that informs the same parties of its entry into force. Finally, Article 3 provides that the Government of the United States shall be the depositary of the Protocol. Ratification today, therefore, is not the subject of Montenegro's substantial accession to NATO, but simply the invitation to accede to it. Following the unanimous ratification of all the members of the Alliance, the Secretary General of NATO's formal invitation to the Balkan country will then be able to proceed. Only then, therefore, will Montenegro, which since last May - I repeat: since last May - sits in the Atlantic Alliance as an observer and already participates in some international missions, be able to make a final decision on the invitation, choosing whether to become officially its 29th Member State. This is obviously an event of great geopolitical importance, at a very delicate stage for the life of the Western Balkans. The situation - as you know - is still very delicate in countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo, nor should we forget the difficulty of relations between Croatia and Serbia. In any case, it is considered that the NATO enlargement process in that area can offer conditions of greater security and stability for the entire region of the Western Balkans and for the same Adriatic area, consolidating the process of integrating those realities into European organisations. It is also noted that the accession to NATO has strongly affected the same Montenegrin public opinion, especially the Serbian component of origin. The accession of Podgorica, moreover, is an issue that also has repercussions on internal politics: the primary objective of the foreign policy of the government of the Prime Minister of Montenegrin Djukanovic, leader of the Democratic Party of Socialists (confirmed as a relative majority party of the country in the political elections last 16 October, with more than 41 percent of the consents), has for years been that of the progressive approach to the European and Euro-Atlantic structures. In this regard it is recalled that on 17 June, after the signing of the Protocol of Accession, the Montenegrin Parliament voted by majority a resolution in support of the country's accession to NATO, in which Montenegro's commitment to the Euro-Atlantic accession process is reaffirmed, considered a strategic priority, reassuring the other partner countries on the reliability of the future ally and inviting the anti-NATO parties that, in Montenegrin reality, occupy part of the anti-government front. In any case, the hope is that the process of NATO's enlargement to the Balkan area, which has been launched for years, will be able to continue smoothly and without having to constitute a possible and further element of misunderstanding with Moscow, with which, in my view, it is appropriate to strengthen a constructive dialogue with a view to consolidating a more secure and defined international security framework. I shall conclude, Madam President, by recalling that the draft law ratifying the Protocol consists of three articles, which provide for the authorisation of ratification, order of implementation and entry into force. New or increased burdens on the state budget are excluded. The ratification of the Protocol does not imply profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, with Community law and with other international obligations entered into by our country. [[Applause from Senator Sangalli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u36	As you are not registered to speak in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, we proceed to the examination of the articles. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. Madam President, I have the same request in advance for all the articles of the draft law under consideration. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pending the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 16.59 a.m. and resumed at 5.05 p.m.) I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u39	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, it was on 2 December last year when the NATO Council called for Montenegro to join NATO. Premier Djukanovic, careless of the protests in the streets, did not want to submit the decision to a national referendum, declaring himself immediately willing to accept the proposal of entry. To establish by a decision of the Italian Parliament Montenegro's entry into NATO - to give a yes - seems disrespectful to me of the development of international relations and of the increasing tensions between the West and the Russian Federation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The relations between the Russian Federation and Montenegro are not only historically based on belonging to the common Orthodox faith, but have been going on for centuries. It is no coincidence that there has been an acceleration in the time of Montenegro's accession, because then, to follow, it will be the turn of two countries that have a much greater weight in international geopolitical balances (I refer to Georgia and, above all, Ukraine). Then I say no, on behalf of my Group, to the entry of Montenegro into NATO and to endorse this operation. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] The situation in the eyes of all international observers and - I hope - more and more in the eyes of Italian citizens sees the Atlantic Alliance having profoundly changed the objectives of its political and military action. It is no longer an alliance created for defensive purposes and mutual agreement between the participants, but an alliance which, especially in recent years, has seen exponential rise in provocation actions, starting with what happened in the former Yugoslavia. Today - as it happens - there are in the Democratic Party positions favorable to the entry of Montenegro and to what this will mean, which unites the Dalhemian part of the party - the bomber D'Alema of the times of Serbia - with that of the party. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] On these things, unlike the much-vaunted constitutional counter-reform, everyone always agrees. I say no, as I will say no to the alleged constitutional reform and to operations of this nature. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] These operations make no sense in the development of the current international economic and political situation. They are managed unilaterally, above all by the great American ally who, with good or bad manners (often and willingly with both), conveys the decisions of the NATO member countries and the accessions, above all pushing in a subtle way and often hidden with the support of the so-called colored revolutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] That is what we have seen in recent years, and that is what we are clearly saying in the parliamentary classrooms. A definitive stop must be given to the transformation of the Atlantic Alliance. That is why we say that it is no longer appropriate for any country to join the Atlantic Alliance. We do not agree with the entry of new countries, but we absolutely agree that NATO can resume the task it had in the past and, if it is not possible for international pressure, we should start to wonder whether it is necessary to leave NATO or to get NATO out of our country, which is much more complicated. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]] Madam President, I would like to repeat my words: 'no!', referring in particular to the fact that the people of Montenegro were unable to express their views, with a legitimate reference, democratically, participatoryly and from below, on this accession project. I therefore invite the Senate of the Republic, although it may have been reported here in a very random way by the colleague who has presented the introductory report, to say no already at this stage. We must give a clear signal: it is not necessary, at this time, for there to be new entries, in an alliance that has more and more a purpose of offense towards the eastern borders of the European Union. We are talking about the areas already mentioned in the short debate that took place at the beginning of the sitting, such as the former Baltic countries, now Montenegro, Poland itself and, in the near future - although I really hope that this is not the case - Ukraine. If this is the signal we want to send, if this is the signal that the Italian Government wants to send, lighting the fuse of the huge powder keg that is at the borders between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, then the answer can only be one: I say no! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u40	Senator Petrocelli, I did not intend to interrupt your speech, but I must call you back, if you can hear me, to stigmatize the seriousness of the qualification you have given to Mr D'Alema, who, moreover, since he is no longer a Member of Parliament, cannot challenge you. [[Comments of Senators Airola and Santangelo.]] Political positions can be challenged, but this statement is neither demonstrated nor demonstrated, and I therefore have a duty to protect the honour of the former Member of Parliament D'Alema. PETROCELLI (M5S). But it is the reality of the facts! AIROLA (M5S). Poor guy. You can't defend yourself! You forgot, didn't you? It's history.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u43	[[Live Senator Airola's comments. Protests from the PD Group]] Senator Airola, please! AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, today we are called to vote on the ratification of a Protocol concerning the accession to NATO of a country like Montenegro. It is clear that the AL-A Group's vote on ratification will be in favour, even in the light of a number of considerations, which I will briefly explain. We must not forget that Montenegro, as well as looking to the East, is a country that looks to the Mediterranean, to our shores and to Italy and is a country with which Italy has in place important collaboration treaties, from various points of view, not least that of the fight against crime, with all that this fight represents, in relations with Montenegro. We can therefore only look positively at the fact that Montenegro is attacking NATO: this is also confirmed by the democratic vote that has been held in Montenegro these days. In fact, we voted for the renewal of the parliamentary representations and won the outgoing President Djukanovic with an alliance of parties, so much more broadly and representatively, won quietly, so much so that some of our parliamentarians, who are part of the delegation of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), were also able to participate as observers in those elections and reported positive opinions on their regularity and outcome. This result puts Montenegro in a position of continuity compared to the past as the elections led to the victory of the already existing majority party. On the other hand, Montenegro looks to Italy for a relationship of close cooperation in many areas, in particular as regards the fight against crime. Therefore, in view of this result, I think that today we must look positively at this aspect. As AL-A, we can only emphasise the Group's support for Montenegro's accession to NATO.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u44	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico commerciale (Commercial Technical Institute) (Pier Fortunato Calvi) in Padua and the Institute of State Higher Education (Institute of Higher Education) (Edmondo De Amicis) in Rovigo, who are today visiting the Senate and attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u47	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, for my part I feel somewhat embarrassed to say that I share a series of reflections made by my colleague, Mr Petrocelli, and the fact that the position of the League overlaps with that of the 5 Star Movement is a bit embarrassing, but absolute truths have been said. Meanwhile, we ratify a Protocol that always needs the United States Government to be boiled, sent back and notified. In other words, we have understood that NATO is a bit of a United States branch that has the ability and the possibility to govern the geopolitics of the Old Continent as well. Secondly, for the first time in history a State belonging to the former Yugoslavia enters NATO, where NATO - I shall not use the same terms - even made a slaughter, bombed and allowed the democratisation of the whole Balkan area, except then the fact that we have been there for about ten years to overcome the Kosovo issues, those of Montenegro in Bosnia. We have a series of guarantee antennas because we have not yet reached a neutrality and stability of the area. However, we do not feel that we are blocking the aspirations of the Montenegrins: if they want to enter this great community, it seems incorrect to say that they have no qualifications or titles to do so. Even before the economic relations that exist, that there will be and that will be implemented between Italy and Montenegro, before even trade and money, let's look at what Montenegro represents today within NATO, what it means to beat the calluses to the Russian Federation since it has not known it and if at this historical moment the economic interest must prevail over that of the tranquility of the whole area. As the colleague of the 5 Star Movement said, more than the fact that Montenegro enters NATO, we should ask ourselves whether Italy should still remain there. As a result of the great American pressure in NATO, the whole of Europe has bent on issuing a series of sanctions which, for the first time in history, have not been used to punish the sanctioned, but to penalise the sanctioned. Actually, we still can't do that today. The relaxation of the Mediterranean is, first of all, an Italian problem. The whole immigration issue, resulting from the destabilisation of North Africa, is paying for it, someone would say Europe, but we can say Italy. We continue to follow a policy that - we perceive - goes to seek, rather than a cold war, really a tension beyond the limit between the United States of America and the Russian Federation, with which we have always had and will always maintain good relations; a strategic economic partner for the pacification of the whole continent. We must ask ourselves whether NATO's principles are still valid. If the principles of NATO were to strengthen a number of countries from a possible aggression, then we see that these countries, driven by the head of NATO, by the United States of America, are seeking aggression against Russia, and the Secretary General who comes to Rome - which is not Oslo - to preach to a audience as we were all anti-Russians has completely mistaken register. Italy has to wonder if in this context it is worth making a further provocation with the annexation of Montenegro, to which as a North League we are not opposed, except that the timing, i.e. today, is the worst time to take this kind of step. The second reflection we have to make is if Italy still has an interest in staying in a NATO that seems to want to drag us more and more into an abyss, where all the economic interests that prevail are overseas and all the damages are paid on the east side of the Atlantic. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u50	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia has always been and will always be in favour of the reasons for Atlantic solidarity and NATO. That is why we also supported the enlargement of the Alliance. However, while confirming this orientation, the opportunity to confirm our position in favour of this accession is intended to serve to underline what is happening, and is linked to what I have just said. NATO was a defensive alliance, born in the climate of the last post-war period: there was the Warsaw Pact; it was another world that, fortunately, was overtaken. It is autumn 2016, and sixty years ago in Hungary - in a few days it will be the anniversary - there was exactly the Hungarian revolt, which was suffocated in the blood by Russian tanks. Today I am glad that Orban is in Hungary - in case others do not appreciate him - and in that country, however, there is democracy and freedom, so much so that Orban, belonging to the European People's Party, has been elected Premier of Hungary several times. We, the world of the center-right, were on the side of NATO when the others were on the side of the Warsaw Pact. I am not Methuselah, but I am old enough to remember the demonstrations against the dislocation of NATO missiles (the Pershing and the Cruise) outside NATO Italy, outside of Italy! Some people still do these demonstrations, perhaps when in Sicily they set up plants, radars; we know all the controversy. I mean, we represent an Atlantic thread. We were not the protagonists of the debates when Italy joined NATO; therefore, from this point of view, the Atlantic position of the centre-right is very clear. I wanted to make a speech on this subject, recalling that, passing from history to the present day, a few years ago Silvio Berlusconi, who was often challenged also for his foreign policy, which was wise and far-sighted, in Pratica di Mare, a few meters from Rome, led NATO to sign agreements with the Russian Federation. Well, I believe that Berlusconi, who is still a protagonist of political life today, despite the injustices and bitterness that he had to suffer, even on the part of this Assembly, also in this legislature - but this is another story - has tried to behave as Italian political leader, as authoritative political leader, because there is no need to take Benigni to the White House because then there is the risk that you do not know who the comic once you arrive at the door of the White House! NATO has been interpreted by the center-right Italy in a positive way of dialogue and the agreements of Practice of the Sea have been a very high moment of Italian foreign policy, with an Italy protagonist, so that in Italy they signed those agreements and there was the start of a dialogue. Today the situation has changed. There is no time or opportunity for analysis here, but we asked before the Minister of Defence and also the Minister of Foreign Affairs came to the Chamber. And we hope, Madam President, that our request will be accepted. We are for NATO, in fact, but we were also in favour of the NATO-Russian pacts when the Warsaw Pact was defeated by history. And he was defeated by the West, certainly not by those who praised the Warsaw Pact against NATO, who were historically wrong. And we were the interpreters of the tradition of a NATO as an international security force, a force of dialogue, which also looked to the Russian Federation. We're worried today. We have not gone on the side of the Warsaw Pact (which fortunately is no longer there), but we are concerned by a somewhat frightening interpretation of this Alliance. And here I am referring to the matter, which I hope we will also be able to discuss in this House, Latvia, with the sending of Italian soldiers. As we are concerned about interpreting NATO as if we were to wage war on Russia. Russia has changed. He will still have all his problems; Russian democracy will still have to make a path but, fortunately, he has started it. If it depended on those who praised the Warsaw Pact, Russia would probably have remained the Soviet one and not today's one. NATO is good, therefore, and Montenegro is good, but we do not want NATO to become, instead of a force of security, democracy and freedom, a moment of division. Also because what is happening proves it to us, and I repeat here what I said before. They say: but in July the government said that. But today this military operation in Latvia is becoming a source of tension and division in the world, because even in the Western world there are not statesmen able to do what Berlusconi did by leading the Italian government towards the Russian Federation. Are we gonna say this or not? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] He didn't take Benigni to the White House. He took the Russians to Sea Practice to sign acts of peace with NATO. This is Italian history. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] That's what I meant. Let us hope that Montenegro's accession will not be another source of tension with Russia. If NATO expands, it wins freedom, according to our historical and cultural approach. But be careful not to make NATO an instrument of tension and also of damage to our companies, through sanctions against Russia. Also because of Putin you can say everything you want, but in the reality of countering Islamic terrorism Russia has done what the West has not had the courage and the strength to do. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Do we want to tell this truth too? Long live NATO, then, but be careful not to misuse it. Our vote is in favour, but certainly not of the policy of this Government, but of the policy that we have made and that Berlusconi has guided, by making NATO an instrument of strength, of democracy but also of dialogue. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u53	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to the previous speech in order to reiterate the need for a great debate within this House on our foreign policy, a debate which is becoming increasingly urgent in the light of the information that comes from the world and the choices that we are therefore called upon to make. It seems to me to be completely reductive that this debate on the basic lines of our foreign policy is brought back into the space of a debate on a problem, which is certainly important, but which risks being loaded with meanings that go beyond the punctual one connected with the vote that we will have to express shortly. Madam President, it seems to me that there have been two trends in the Italian Atlanticism in the past: one radically pro-Atlantic, philologically pro-Atlantic; and another which, even during the Cold War, believed that our foreign policy should have found its centre of gravity and its role in a position of fidelity to the main ally, but also of mediation with Russia, which was then the Soviet Union, and what this relationship would have meant, as a reflection, in politics towards the Middle East. These two lines could lead us to reconstruct the entire history of Republican Italy, from its degasperian origins to the present day, until Atlanticism was a unitary element shared by the entire Italian democratic world opposed to the communist world. It seems to me that this debate belongs to the past. Today the terms are absolutely different also because the balance of the world has changed and, above all, the positions of the main interpreters on the international scene have changed. Today we are confronted with a major enemy, which is international terrorism of Islamic inspiration. We are faced with an American position that tends to an isolationism that crosses American political families much more than the very hard oppositions of these days might suggest. Russia, on the one hand, is one of our main allies in the confrontation with terrorism and, on the other, risks giving in again to the temptation to behave like a superpower. Finally, we are witnessing the transformation of another important point of reference of the Atlantic policies - I am referring to Turkey - which is completely changing strategy, taking definitively detachment from the ataturchism that has historically characterized the country, transforming itself into something totally different and even opposite. I believe that, regardless of the interpretations that can be given at the coup d'état that took place this summer, we are witnessing the transformation of a country that is changing its connotations and also its relationship with the West, both in the cultural and military spheres. Madam President, all of this deserves a reflection on the role of NATO today and on what its priorities should be considered. We can also have a different position from those in this House who have expressed their appreciation for Putin's positions, but we cannot forget that conflicts must be hierarchicalized and that, at other times, Western democracies, strong in their reasons, have managed to be allies, precisely for this principle, even with bloody dictators like Stalin. Today, this problem of the hierarchicalisation of conflicts also arises in the light of a European policy which certainly has responsibilities in detaching Turkey from the Atlantic line. No less than this detachment, we cannot help but take into account. Madam President, all this leads me to strengthen the call for a major debate on these issues. It is very difficult at times like these, as far as NATO is concerned, to rely solely on a fidelity proposed as a conditional reflection. There is no one - or I still think that few in this House - who is more pro-American than I am. But it's one thing to be a pro-American. It's another thing not to take note of the great changes in the world, not to discuss them and not to take reasoned positions on all this. Since we are at a stage in the life of this Senate, for which we can say that we do not take on immense jobs and that we are not called to vote on big problems and big issues, perhaps this time could be usefully occupied for a debate on foreign policy that recovers fundamental positions, beyond media slogans that, if they will characterize even our positions of foreign policy, will make us regress to Country of series B, when our country must continue to be protagonist on the scenario of the world. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u56	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, our vote will abstain on this measure, for reasons neither particularly ideological nor related to ancient reasons, but for a very serious concern about how this decision can negatively affect already very sensitive relations in foreign policy, in particular with Russia. I would like to remind the Assembly that in Montenegro itself this measure has led to a complex and certainly not unanimous discussion, with positions, also among the democratic political forces of that country, decidedly different, with doubts and elements that probably would have required, even from other countries, a greater deepening and some extra caution; this above all in a historical phase such as the one we are living and that we know well to be marked by very significant contradictions of foreign policy. Well, in a climate already tense and in a condition that already in the course of this year, starting from the Ukrainian affair, has seen a tension of political and diplomatic relations, it seems to us that it would have been wiser to have more elements of deepening. Therefore, for these reasons, we will not vote in favour of the measure by repeating the abstention vote of the Italian Left. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u59	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of Montenegro, as we have seen from previous speeches, has given rise to a debate in which I believe it is right to speak. I do that of course on a personal basis. As President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, however, I would like to remind my colleague, Mr Divina, that he has said a great deal inexactly, because it is not true that Montenegro in the Balkans is the first country to join NATO, because we have Balkan countries that have joined NATO, such as Slovenia, Croatia and Albania; the first two were fully participating in Yugoslavia yesterday, while Albania was also outside this blockade. So the problem must not be seen according to the magnifying lenses of political controversy, but with extreme seriousness. Dear colleagues, Gasparri before and Quagliariello have now raised a serious issue, because we are faced with a problem that must not be cleared with the eye on 5 December or internal Italian issues, because otherwise we will never get to the bottom of it. We have the problem, as a NATO member country, of redefining the role, identity and future of an alliance that is in the genetic code of Italy and its Parliament. We must be careful in this debate because if we give the idea of being repentant NATO, we certainly do not make a contribution to the seriousness of the debate itself. If we had not joined NATO, we would simply have been unable to achieve even that little - or so much in my opinion - that the European Union has achieved in terms of progress, well-being and peace over the past fifty years. The Europeanist and Atlantic choice of Italy, from De Gasperi to all the successive Presidents of the Council, is in our genetic heritage. Today we have a problem arising from the new attitudes of the great powers. Let us think of the geopolitical energy issues that lead, for example, the Americans to set their position differently than the Mediterranean. Let us think of the assertive role of Russia that is possible thanks to the vacuum that has been created in the Mediterranean itself; let us think of the need to combat terrorism, which is our priority, and of the free world, because this is certainly not just a requirement of Western Europeans or Americans, Canadians and Australians. Countering terrorism is also a problem for Russia because we know, among other things, that jihadism and terrorism threaten Russia and China potentially no less than we do. Of course, I do not want to go into problems here, and I have, moreover, spoken on many occasions in this House. I also say, Senator Gasparri, that the spirit of Sea Practice must be recovered and that it was a good thing that the then President of the Council, Mr Berlusconi, worked to expand the relationship between NATO and Russia. However, let us also tell the truth, today if we want to look at and photograph reality, we must also give the Russians some responsibility. Think of the cynicism with which men, women, children and families are being bombarded in East Aleppo, otherwise we lose sight of the dimension of reality. [[Applause from the AP groups (NCD-UDC) and PD and Senator Comrade.]] I am interested to hear Mr Quagliariello's words. Are we going to have a great debate on this? I believe that it is useful for Parliament to express itself because, at last, Italy must make its contribution to the definition of a more secure framework for foreign policy. I conclude by saying that this morning I participated, together with Senator Mauro and Mr Fassina, in the presentation of the IAI report in which it is said that there is a growth of dissent and mistrust in Italian and European citizens towards Europe, but to the question of whether stronger integration in Europe is considered essential, the citizens themselves express a positive opinion. In this respect, the citizens are very wise because on the one hand they say that they reject Europe as it is, because they cannot solve the problems and respond to the great questions of today such as immigration and the distribution of immigrants. On the other hand, however, the citizens themselves understand that without Europe we will have no future in the world. In the 1950s, Europe produced 45% of world GDP, now 20% barely. Well, we will not be able to solve the challenges of the present and the future if not in a dimension that must be seen bearing in mind the great fuss and difficulty of today's Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot just be critics or spectators of this NATO and this Europe. We are the protagonists of this. Our task is to respond to the challenges by putting our proposals on the table. Otherwise we will miss a historic opportunity. [[Applause from the AP groups (NCD-UDC) and PD and Senator Comrade. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u61	I take note of this and I give you the floor, Senator Augello, even though your Group has not yet made an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u62	AUGELLO (CoR). Madam President, I do not want to repeat concepts already developed by other Members during the debate. In principle, I find it difficult, although I have listened carefully to Mr Casini, to imagine the ratification of this accession to NATO as a moment of protagonism on the part of our country and our Parliament. The issue is central and it is not simply a question of an anachronistic debate between Atlanticists and anti-Atlanticists. It is clear that the Atlantic Alliance has changed its mission and it is not always possible to read as a defensive alliance. At this time, we should never, in any case, debate on those who believe that a solution should be sought, with force, to the many outbreaks that have ignited in the relations between NATO and the Russian Federation, in particular in the context of the scenarios in which these frictions have developed, which are not only the recent maneuvers in Lithuania: the main problem is how we must regulate ourselves in the relationship with the Russian Federation, also in relation to the more complex affair that is unfolding in Syria and in the fight against terrorism. From this point of view, I believe that no one in this House can convince us that the accession of the Republic of Montenegro to NATO is a significant fact at the military level. I doubt that Montenegro's contingents can enrich the persuasive and deterrent capacity of the military alliance. I believe that this is a political decision, which falls at a precise political moment and which risks intensifying a well-defined and determined political tension that is going through our international relations system. I think we need to report an inconvenience. Madam President, I have honestly never believed that we could be Atlanticists or anti-Atlanticists like we are from a football team to a derby: from Rome or Lazio. Atlanticism has played a very precise role in the stabilisation of post-war Europe. It was a bit difficult, perhaps, to be atlant in absolute after Cermis and after Ustica. It is a system of alliances that has carried out its historical function, but today we are in a different historical moment and - lively! - we have the opportunity to compete, deepening all the issues, so that this new course will see us, not say protagonists, but at least co-protagonists in deciding who are the friends and enemies of the moment in the face of the challenge of terrorism. I don't think it was an emphasis to remember the spirit of Sea Practice. The key to international relations, which can lead us to arrive at a more choral response to the great challenges that come at this time from the great crisis that unfortunately goes from Turkey to Libya, passes through that spirit. I feel, therefore, in a position to stress this discomfort and that is why, in dissent from my Group, I shall abstain on this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u65	Comrade (CoR). Madam President, I think that the debate that has developed has been unnecessarily compressed by the calendar acrobatics to which the majority has forced us for a week and is, therefore, somewhat random. Last week, in fact, for reasons of internal cohesion to the majority, our calendar seems to hang on to the thread of the most inoffensive topics between the harmless ones and the chance, connected to the beauty and liveliness of the parliamentary regime, proposes the most offensive matter among the harmless, the treaties, with on the agenda the request for discussion between areas and limits of Atlanticism that had appeared in the Assembly already last week. I do not think that our Group can escape from this, because the dear memory of what it meant, after 11 September, Pratica di Mare, evoked by Casini, Gasparri and now, with greater intensity, by Augello, we also have it and we have it intact. But atlantism is too big, too different between De Gasperi and Berlusconi, too different between Sea Practice and today, from allowing us to do these stunts on Montenegro. From this point of view, my group and I will vote in favour of the proposal by the rapporteur, Mr Pegorer. We do this with great concern, because we did not get distracted on Sunday, when we voted in Montenegro and there were so many political tensions, even within the seats. Fortunately there were careful observers of the West (we use this old concept, for me indispensable to think politics). This means that the idea of NATO membership is a hope of stability and stabilisation for that country. Obviously NATO issues are much bigger and look at much more scenario than the Balkan, small Montenegro or large Serbia. But let us not confuse and overlap situations and men. President Casini is right in remembering how they looked to the West countries that came from Tito's national communism. However, this is the reason why, precisely in the days of Pratica di Mare, together with Gasparri, Augello and I think Casini himself, we were very critical of the ease and superficiality with which Romano Prodi theorized and practiced the enlargement of Europe. We became 27 and 28 with great ease and with great lightness, without deepening anything of that original idea of Europe that died together with the physical death of Alcide de Gasperi and that was the European Community of defence, that is, the democratic and anti-totalitarian West by vocation. That is why, by voting in favour of Senator Pegorer's proposal, I would not want this debate in this House and on this subject to become a way of superimposing times and ways. Of course, I see that today there are colleagues, perhaps on the right, who are more pro-Putinian than I was pro-American (and perhaps Casini with me); but these are things to discuss in a different scenario from the calendar irony that led precisely the Protocol on Montenegro's accession to NATO to be the first Treaty to our attention. [[Applause from Senators Casini and Cuomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u68	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, speaking on the order of business, I would like to welcome the debate that is taking place in this House, which should be done much more often. Unfortunately we are allowed only because these are ratifications: we do not count anything and therefore we can speak. On the other hand, we assist the Pinotti who sells weapons in Yemen without being able to say anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u71	CHITI (PD). Madam President, before I go into the substance of the issues that are being discussed, I would like to refer to a point made by Senator Gasparri, on which I disagree. I wonder if this country of ours is in permanent election campaign. Today, at the White House, Italy, as a country system, met with the President of the United States who is about to end his mandate. It should be a fact that everyone likes, not someone does and someone doesn't. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] Benigni and Sorrentino are present: someone may like or not like the film "Life is beautiful," which dealt with Nazi extermination camps, but they are certainly two Oscar prize winners for which Italy should experience a minimum of satisfaction and pride. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . I would like to thank President Casini, because if he had not spoken, I would not have been able to say where this debate came from. On the issues of NATO membership there have been profound differences and contrasts in post-war Italy. If then they had adopted the criterion that many have set out here, Italy would not have entered NATO, because there was very strong opposition in Parliament and in the country. At that time, as is normal in democracy, Parliament's decision was upheld. But then there was a very long path, built to make sure that among the great forces of this country there was a unity with respect to some values, with respect to NATO, with respect to the West, with respect to how to be in NATO. I agree that we need a general debate and that we need to take stock of this issue, but that we risk losing the road and the conclusions we have reached, would seem to me to be a mistake that neither the centre-right nor the centre-left should be allowed. And the center-left seems to me that at least today it doesn't. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Similarly, I think that there is a risk of losing - I say this without controversy, but with concern - the historical memory of what happened in the Balkans. There was Srebrenica, then Sarajevo, there were massacres, ethnic rapes [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Bonfrisco]] , authentic acts of war, for which war criminals were condemned. And late the international community intervened, because even in a world community, as John Paul II said, acts of humanitarian interference or, as I can say, acts of international police are sometimes necessary. Otherwise they close their eyes and ears in front of the massacres. That Parliament and the Government of Alema behaved in accordance with what the international community decided. To those who do not know him I would ask, instead of making jokes, to read the reflections of a personality like Alexander Langer. What did this pacifist, Christian and environmentalist say about the issue of war in the former Yugoslavia? Peace cannot be achieved unless one looks at the dignity, independence and freedom of the peoples, because if one does not take account of them one returns to 1936-1938. We are deceived, not looking at what happens, to achieve peace and instead create the conditions for wars that are destructive wars. Senator Pegorer had already carried out a report - I thought I would make a brief speech when I listened to his report - in which he explained in a concrete and clear way what we are deciding today, what is the decision we take, the Protocol of Understanding, the stages provided for in the three articles. He pointed out, as Senator Casini then resumed, that there are other countries, Albania, Slovenia and Croatia that are already part of NATO. This is about doing it today. As ten parliaments have already done (but the Italian Parliament is the largest of them in the European country), we have to ask ourselves whether, in relation to the Parliament and the people of Montenegro, which still, as has been pointed out in the elections these days, has marked the will to take this path, we say no or say yes. That's the question. Who are we with? With parts of the streets contesting representative democracy and contesting that Parliament, or with those who have taken decisions and assume responsibility for it because democracy is done in this way and only in this way can it be decided? I think that is why we have to decide yes and respond positively. Montenegro asks us this because it binds to this choice its autonomy as a country and not the enmity towards others. Can you imagine Montenegro scaring the Russian Federation? Montenegro asks for it for its autonomy, for its path in Europe and to strengthen its democracy. These are the reasons. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Some of the colleagues present here who are part of the Italian-Montenegro Parliamentary Friendship Group (we have also been with a delegation in Montenegro). Let me turn to the penultimate consideration I intend to make. This decision does not mean that, as Mr Pegorer said here, NATO should not rethink and reform itself. The debate we have been discussing is a good one, and it is a good one. However, the reform of NATO to make it able to face a world that is no longer bipolar and does not see the clash between opposing military parts, is done by standing or showing repentance? Is it a repentance today? The Italian Parliament is repentant about its presence. How do you think about cooperation with the European Union and the fact that the European Union is equipped with its own armed forces and coordination? Regardless of NATO or in cooperation with NATO? If we think regardless of NATO, other than reducing resources for military expenditure, that means multiplying them to yet another power. This too requires a minimum of seriousness and consistency. Finally, I should like to turn to the last point. I would like to take up a point made by Senator Pegorer, whom I share. This choice does not mean that we do not want constructive relations with the Russian Federation. We want constructive relations with the Russian Federation and we do not want to see a return to the Cold War in Europe and the world. This can be done if there is mutual clarity and constructiveness. President Casini is right: it is clear that we must be united against terrorism and we must involve everyone, but at the same time it is equally clear that in Europe we cannot change the borders of States by unilateral acts. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We cannot because, in Europe, we have built détente and security from the Helsinki Declaration on this. I repeat, you can't. Compared to Georgia, it is not possible to give Ossetia and Abkhazia a statute of its own and to occupy them. [[Applause from Senator Sangalli]] The problems of Crimea cannot be solved. I repeat, you can't. We must work constructively and positively and we must all know that it cannot be acts of military force that change the fate of the nations. If that were the case, our future would be spent on re-armament and war risks. This is the decision we take today and this is a message of constructive and non-subalternal friendship that we also clearly give to the Russian Federation. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u72	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and the students of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education "Rinaldo d'Aquino" of Montella, in the province of Avellino, who are following our work from the forums. We welcome them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u75	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u76	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u77	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2466, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Casini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u78	Madam President, the draft law before us, which has already been adopted by the House of Deputies, concerns the Convention between Italy and Chile to eliminate double taxation, which has, moreover, greatly damaged the Italian companies operating in that country. The agreement consists of 31 articles and an additional protocol and is based on the model of the OSCE Tax Convention. It shall apply to natural and legal persons resident in one or both of the Contracting States, limited to taxation of income. The Agreement defines the concept of residence, permanent establishment, real estate income and company profits, accepting the general principle that company profits are taxable in the State of residence of the undertaking, with the exception of income produced through a permanent establishment. The tax criteria for dividends, interest and royalty are therefore established. Specific articles govern the tax treatment of income from professional and employed services, remuneration for directors and the subject matter of pensions. With regard to the mechanisms to avoid double taxation, the Agreement provides, for Italy, for the ordinary method of imputation, i.e. limiting the amount of credit relating to foreign tax to the share of Italian tax attributable to the elements of taxable income in Chile in the proportion in which they contribute to the formation of total income. The charges are estimated at EUR 425,000 per year from 2017, but offset by the benefits that will come from them over the years for economic operators. This is a very long-awaited measure by our companies and, in conclusion, I propose the adoption of the bill by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u79	Senator Casini, I did not interrupt you, but as rapporteur I invite you to speak from the Commission desk. As you are not included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u82	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, I rise briefly to declare the Group's abstention vote. I think there are some positive elements in the agreement that we are called to ratify, but the abstention vote is motivated by the need - in our opinion - to move this type of agreement towards a mechanism, which guarantees better protection, aimed at making the Italian company pay taxes exclusively in the foreign country in which it worked and then, to the Italian finances, it is then to tax only the income gains that belong to the company itself and, above all, to its owner. As we do not find these figures and these parameters in the agreement under consideration, I declare my abstention. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] 18.09 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u85	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, the A-LA Group will vote in favour of this ratification measure, which is useful in preventing tax evasion and very useful in facilitating the economic activities of many Italian companies in Chile, which is an important economic partner of ours. We therefore believe that this bill of ratification is really necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u88	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the measure under discussion is now part of the broad scope of the agreements aimed at avoiding double taxation in tax matters and thus preventing tax evasion and avoidance. Among other things, we are talking about relations with Chile, one of the emerging economies of Latin America with which Italy also has deep relations. The taxes considered are the IRPEF, the IRPEG and IRAP, while for the Chilean part they are those on income and rent. Thus, criteria are laid down for the allocation of corporate taxes and the way in which the same taxation is shared. Consider, then, that the additional burden on the state budget is not unbearable, which is why the North League Group has no reason to oppose the ratification of the agreement in question and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u91	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I would simply like to announce the PD Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u94	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u95	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u96	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2036. The rapporteur, Senator Pegorer, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u97	Madam President, the draft law before the House consists of three articles and concerns the adjustment of the state border in the stretch of the Barbuccina stream between the municipalities of San Floriano del Collio (in the province of Gorizia) and Obcina Brda (in Slovenia). The small change in the border was necessary after the torrent had been settled by mutual agreement between Italy and Slovenia between 1986 and 1993. That is why we need an amendment to the 2007 bilateral convention. Finally, I would ask you to submit the text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u98	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u101	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, when I read the title of this agreement, I was a little alarmed. There are no particular reasons for tension with Slovenia, except when Napolitano during the commemoration of the Fosse Ardeatine massacre repeatedly accused the Slovenian partisans, remaining silent on the responsibility of the fascists for the events of the Second World War, triggering a real diplomatic tension then re-entered. The reason for my agitation is linked to the change of borders. In February of this year, the French Government, in fact, temporarily took possession of a part of the Italian sea, in execution of a bilateral agreement with Italy, which has not yet passed to the examination of our Commission. The sale of the section concerned a very fishy area, which would penalise Italian fishermen. The French also acknowledged that the Agreement had yet to be ratified and ceased. You will understand, Madam President, that my concern was justified. Then, I saw the Treaty and I became calm. In this particular case, as my colleagues have already said, it is a question of adapting the state border to the changed morphological conditions of the soil, while the variations are compensated in a balanced way, in our opinion. For this reason, the 5 Star Movement Group will vote in favour of the Agreement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u104	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, as the rapporteur said, this is a technical agreement in which the parties have agreed some compensation for the new course of the stream, to leave it as a reference point for the border between Italy and Slovenia. Having noted this, we are voting in favour of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u107	Madam President, it is really interesting to hear about borders, as is being done in this ratification, since, in recent times, talking about borders seemed like a demodé. On the other hand, we see that ratification is even needed in order to be able to talk about a small part of the territory, as is the case in this case, where we are discussing the path of a torrent. We delude ourselves in some ways that perhaps indifference to borders is the result almost of a desire to think in a more mature way, and instead we believe it is a form of escape from reality. To talk about borders and borders is also to talk about the subtle differences between regulatory systems, values, projects, cultural identities, which can, yes, certainly coexist but must coexist in full, mutual respect for diversity and sovereignty. Instead, we believe that the absence of differences reflects a form of imposition of a dominant model, which in the end is that of the most powerful and strong countries. The Lega Nord Group will vote in favour of the ratification of this Agreement, hoping there will also be some kind of awakening, which brings our country back into history, freeing it from the illusion of utopias that are not actually shared and that can have even dangerous purposes, such as thinking of a world without borders. Borders do exist. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u110	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I want to declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour and contextualize it in positive relations with the Republic of Slovenia, whose positivity was also favoured by President Napolitano's intervention in those territories (exactly the opposite feeling compared to that expressed in a speech before my speech). In fact, we are going in the direction of a positive relationship, confirming and consolidating it. [[Applause from Senators Pegorer and Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u113	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I too would like to announce the vote in favour and say that no President like Napolitano has personally committed himself to the reconciliation of Slovenians, Croatians and Italians, even with the meeting of the three Presidents. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Laniece. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u114	Please, I ask this House to remain calm and to respect what is being said.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u117	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u118	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u119	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2404, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Casini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u120	Madam President, this is the same matter as the Treaty....
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u121	Senator Casini, I invite you to do the surgery from the Commission desk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u122	CASINI, rapporteur. Madam President, it is impossible for me to do this unless you set off a military manu post. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In respect of your position as rapporteur, you will no doubt be given a seat. However, these are strong words which must not be heard in this House. CASINI, rapporteur. Madam President, the report will be very brief, partly because the content is largely similar to that of the Treaty with Chile, which has just been examined. Again, the agreement follows the model tax convention of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and applies to natural and legal persons resident, limited to income taxation. Business profits are taxable in the State of residence of the undertaking, with the exception of income generated through a permanent establishment. The tax criteria for dividends, interest and royalty are laid down. As far as pensions are concerned, the text generally provides for taxation only in the State of residence. The Agreement provides for the use of the ordinary method of charging to avoid double taxation. The charges are valued at 380,000 euros per year. The Convention therefore responds to the need to better regulate the tax aspects of relations between the two countries. I therefore propose that the House approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u123	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to speak, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u126	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I just want to declare the 5 Star Movement Group abstaining.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u129	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, I too will make a brief statement saying that, as an AL-A Group, we are voting in favour of this measure, because this too, like the previous one, goes in the direction of promoting trade with an important country with which Italy has this kind of relationship. With regard to the extradition part, the parties commit themselves to the return of the persons present on the territory sought and sentenced. So we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u132	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would just like to say that the Group of the North Legacy will also vote in favour of this ratification, while stressing that, over time, it may be a little late compared to an agreement reached as early as 2010.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u135	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I rise to declare the Democratic Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u138	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u139	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u140	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2405, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Compagna, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u141	Madam President, the Agreement commits the parties to providing mutual assistance and cooperation to ensure compliance with customs legislation, to ascertain and repress violations of customs legislation and to make trade more transparent. The agreement shall consist of a preamble and 23 articles and shall identify in the customs administrations of the two parties the authorities competent for its application. Articles 3 to 7 govern the exchange of information for the purpose of the exact perception of customs duties and taxes. There are also special forms of cooperation aimed, inter alia, at simplifying customs controls, but also at preventing illicit trafficking in goods and artistic goods, smuggling and drug trafficking. Article 13 commits each customs administration to investigate, on request, customs operations contrary to the customs legislation of the other Party. Further articles govern the use and protection of the information received, the grounds for refusal of assistance and the establishment of a Joint Committee. The draft ratification law consists of four articles which form the basis for the authorisation of ratification, order of execution, financial coverage and entry into force respectively. The estimated expenditure is approximately €19,000 per year, for mission expenses and for meetings of the Joint Committee. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate, according to the Commission, constitutional problems, nor grounds for incompatibility with international European regulations, to which our country is bound. Hence the proposal to the House to approve it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u142	We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u143	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to speak, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u145	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, the Agreement improves, at least in its intentions, the control of trade relations between the two countries. The 5 Star Movement announces the vote in favour, as long as it is not said that we always say no. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When you say yes it is yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u148	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, we are faced with a ratification which repeats the arguments already discussed. We are talking about customs legislation, violations of this legislation, transparency and trade. We are clearly in favour and will vote yes to ratification. [[Applause from Senators Companione and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u151	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u154	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, let us change this regulation to the section on electronic voting. You have to balance all the time to ask for support. Let us put our finger on this regulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I will continue to follow the Rules of Procedure. Are you requesting electronic voting on the final vote? MARTON (M5S). It doesn't make sense. I was asking to put my hand on the Rules of Procedure because this procedure no longer makes sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u157	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u158	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u159	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2406, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Compagna, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u160	The Agreement consists of a preamble and 15 articles and follows in the contents other agreements of the same nature already signed with other countries. It identifies the institutional bodies responsible for its implementation in the Department of Public Security of the Ministry of Interior for Italy and in the Directorate of Public Security for Jordan. The main areas in which police cooperation will be operational are, among others: terrorism, drug trafficking, organised crime, illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, illicit arms trafficking. It is also expected that cooperation will also extend to the search for suspects and fugitives and that regular consultations will be held between the respective Ministers of the Interior. The text also provides that all requests for information shall contain a summary of the reasons for such requests and that the protection of sensitive data transmitted under the Agreement is ensured. The understanding also governs the conditions which may determine the refusal of cooperation and provides that any interpretative or application disputes between the parties are resolved by diplomatic means. The draft law consists of four articles. Article 3, in particular, authorises a total expenditure of around EUR 160,000 per year. The text, in the Commission's view, does not present constitutional problems or incompatibility with European legislation and international law, and takes into account the provisions contained in other Conventions: among them the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961 and the UN Convention on Combating Organised Crime of 2000. These are the reasons why the Commission is proposing to the House that the text be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u161	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to speak, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u164	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, last April I expressed, on behalf of the entire Group of the 5 Star Movement, our opposition to the Cooperation Agreement in the field of defence between Italy and Jordan, highlighting how the agreement provided for the transfer of ships, aircraft, helicopters, wagons, automatic firearms, medium- and large-caliber weapons, bombs, mines, rockets, missiles and more. Jordan is a crossroads for the supply of arms to armed groups fighting in Syria. Are we sure that the weapons we supply to Jordan are not handed over to third parties without our consent? Waiting for a better clarification of what is happening on the borders with Syria, what the 5 Star Movement means by cooperation between countries is a direct action for security and peace. The agreement that we want to ratify today, with the bill No 2406, instead provides for cooperation between our security forces and Jordanian forces, which consists mainly of a constant exchange of information between the two parties. From this point of view, while expressing our concerns about the role of Jordan in the Middle East chessboard, we do not feel that we oppose this cooperation, hoping that our security forces and security forces will be able to manage such relations, refusing, if they consider it, also to provide information in accordance with Article 14 of this Treaty. [[Applause from Senator Cioffi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u167	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, I believe that this ratification is very important precisely because Jordan, today, in that chessboard and in the face of the Syrian crisis, is a nation of reference to try to stabilise the situation. We must not forget that, among other things, Jordan is now hosting 700,000 refugees, but perhaps they are much more, coming from Syria, so it has an important fundamental role, connected with all the Western powers, to try to be incisive in the fight against terrorism, in the assistance of refugees and in the fight against crime. In this respect, the agreement before us is very positive, so we believe that it should be approved by this House today.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u170	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, this matter is very dear to us and also delicate: we are talking about cooperation between police forces. We regret the fact that this agreement had already been prepared in 2011 and we are ratifying it with five years' delay. This is a standard cooperation agreement which the Viminale made with all countries outside the European Union at the time, and also with Jordan, as strategic at this time not only for the fight against crime, for which the Agreement was born specifically, but for the fight against terrorism, as it borders both Syria and Iraq and is also paying for the burning of a flow of more than one and a half million refugees who are hosted in the country. The League Group is therefore in favour of ratifying the Agreement in our examination, but we must blame the fact that we are coming to this ratification with five years' delay.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u173	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I am voting in favour of this ratification by stressing that, as has already been said, Jordan is a country which today plays a particularly delicate role in the Middle East chessboard because it is very exposed and borders on countries under terrorist pressure. Moreover, it is a country very exposed to immigration that hosts a huge amount of refugees. The cooperation between our police forces and the Jordanian security forces is therefore an action for peace in that chessboard. Our vote, therefore, will be very much in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u176	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u177	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u180	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would like to point out that by mistake I did not vote as I wished. I would ask you to stick to the record that my vote was a vote in favour. .
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u181	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2467, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Corsini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u182	Madam President, the draft law before us, which has already been adopted by the House, brings about the ratification of the Agreement between Italy and Turkmenistan on the exchange of information in tax matters. The agreement, like others already discussed by this House, is based essentially on the model prepared by the OECD, in the framework of the initiatives for fiscal transparency and aims to promote cooperation between the two countries through an exchange of information on taxation, necessary to ensure the achievement of adequate levels of transparency. Composed of 14 articles, the Agreement is, among other things, the prerequisite for the inclusion of Turkmenistan in the list of countries that allow an adequate degree of fiscal transparency. The draft law ratifying this Agreement consists of three articles providing for the authorisation of ratification, order of implementation and entry into force. There are no charges or lower revenues for public finances.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u183	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to speak, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u184	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u186	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, we agree with the text of the Agreement, both in substance and in form and intentions, so we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u189	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, this agreement is about information on taxation. It is a routine agreement, however, which goes in a positive direction, which is that of overcoming banking secrecy. That is why we shall be voting in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u190	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u192	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we, too, agree with the content of the agreement, and we announce the support of the Lega Nord Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u193	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u195	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u198	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u199	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u200	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2468, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Corsini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u201	Madam President, the draft law before us, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies, brings about the ratification of the 2012 Agreement between Italy and the Government of Bermuda. The text follows the model of bilateral understanding set out in the previous Agreement with Turkmenistan. The content is essentially the same and I would therefore refer you back to the report you have just presented, proposing that the House approve the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u202	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to speak, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u203	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u204	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u205	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I rise to announce the vote of the 5 Star Movement Group in the Senate, which I confirm is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u206	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u208	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, as the rapporteur said, this is an identical measure to the previous one, so we also support the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u209	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u211	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, although we agree with the section on these forms of bilateral agreements which have exchanges of information, we do know that the measure is not capable of overcoming the Bermuda internal system, where there are rules that allow banks not to provide information about their accountants. For this reason, while we are not opposed to attempts to create automation in the exchange of information (with the aim of obviously avoiding major international tax evasions), in the end this Agreement turns out to be useless. That is why we shall abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u212	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u214	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u215	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u217	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u218	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u219	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2469, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Casini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u220	Madam President, we are talking about an extradition treaty which commits the two parties to hand over persons present on their territory who are wanted or condemned. Extradition is possible for acts punishable by a minimum penalty of more than one year and for the execution of a final sentence with a residual penalty of at least six months. As is international practice, extradition can be denied for political crimes and for those who reveal against the person required a fumus of discrimination. Under no circumstances may the death penalty be applied to the extradited person. In addition, the so-called "speciality principle" is established, whereby the extradited person cannot be prosecuted, except for a few exceptions, by the requesting State for crimes committed prior to delivery and other than those subject to the request for extradition. There is also the possibility of a simplified extradition procedure, subject to the consent of the person concerned. The other Agreement concerns cooperation and mutual administrative assistance in customs matters. The exchange of information concerns the legality of the import and export operations of goods, is the exact perception of customs duties and taxes and transactions which may constitute customs infringements. Assistance may be refused or deferred if it undermines the sovereignty, security or vital interests of the country. The total costs of the measure are estimated at around 38,000 euros per year, of which about 23,000 euros for the extradition treaty and about 15,000 euros for the Customs Cooperation Agreement. In conclusion, it is proposed that the measure be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u221	We greet the students and students of the Institute of Higher Education "De Amicis" in Rovigo. Welcome and welcome to the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u222	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to speak, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u223	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u225	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the 5 Star Movement Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u226	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u228	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, involuntarily I had already in part anticipated my speech on the occasion of the previous declaration, which always concerned ratification of Chile. Reaffirming what was said in that explanation of vote, I would point out that we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u229	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u230	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u231	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we in the Lega Nord Group share this understanding with the aim of improving international judicial cooperation and thus making the fight against crime more effective. Certainly, the intensification of relations between Italy and Chile inevitably means that there can be problems of a judicial nature and unfortunately also criminal implications. This type of agreement was lacking, and since it is important that it be ratified and enforced, we in the Lega Nord Group will vote in favour. I would just like to take this opportunity to point out that in the previous vote on Act 2468 the entire Group of the North Legacy abstained. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u232	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u233	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u234	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u235	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u236	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u237	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u238	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u239	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2523, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Corsini, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u240	, f. f. Madam President, the agreement consists of 34 articles and is intended to replace a previous agreement of 1986. It shall first identify the authorities of the two countries responsible for its implementation and specify the areas and forms of cooperation to be carried out through the exchange of information and experience, as well as mutual assistance in the training of staff. The text also regulates cross-border observation and tracking activities, cross-border deliveries, common forms of intervention and the secondment of security experts. Title IV regulates cooperation activities in the common border area, including cooperation in the return activities of third-country nationals receiving removal measures and the use of common forms of intervention (including mixed patrols) for the prevention and combating of illegal migration. The rules of Title VI govern, in various respects, the legal status of agents employed in the territory of the other Party with respect to criminal and civil liability. The total charges are quantified in approximately 126,000 euros per year. The Agreement does not present any incompatibility profiles and takes into account existing legal instruments of cooperation at international level, including the United Nations Conventions against illicit drug trafficking and transnational organised crime. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u241	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to speak, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u242	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u243	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u244	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, with regard to this Agreement, I would like to point out to my colleagues in the Democratic Party, who are always ready to talk about populism, the protection of Europe, freedom of movement and many other beautiful principles, the obvious contradiction that the Agreement creates under the lie of the wording of a police cooperation agreement. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, did we not abolish these borders of the European Union? The ratification of the Agreement would give rise to a blatantly anti-European attitude, at a political time when Austria is experiencing a profound phase of political instability which could favour xenophobic positions contrary to the Italian interest. Italy and Austria would sign this agreement when, in fact, there have been serious violations of the right to the detriment of migrants, asylum seekers and, indirectly, Italian citizens for several months. These are violations for which Austria is fully responsible and, in our view, the Italian Government has not properly weighed these errors on the other side. Despite the fact that there are elements of cooperation commonly found in other agreements of this type, there are not at this time those political conditions that would lead us without hesitation to vote yes to such an agreement. Our position is also justified by the statements of the Austrian Chancellor Kern who, in the episode of "Agorà" aired on RAI 3 on Monday 10 October 2016, argued that the Brenner remains open otherwise it would create a domino effect, adding that the European Union must do more, but also that Italy is doing what is necessary to ensure security. A step back that we must enhance, especially after the controversy that followed the construction of a wall at the border with our country in recent months. I believe that the best way to support the positions expressed by the Chancellor is, therefore, not to ratify this Agreement, at least for the time being. For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement will vote no to the ratification of this Treaty. On the subject of the management of migratory flows, we have already brought our proposals to this House with the presentation of a resolution and a motion for a foreign policy tabled in August. In conclusion, I announce the contrary vote of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u245	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u246	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u247	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, the vote of the AL-A Group will be in favour of ratification of this Agreement, which was signed by the Italian and Austrian Governments on 11 July 2014. The bill of ratification, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, awaits final approval today with the vote of the Senate. This is nothing more than an update of the rules on relations between Italy and Austria on police cooperation, as the Treaty under consideration replaces a previous 1986 Agreement and aims to strengthen operational cooperation between the two countries, intensifying relations between their counterparts in the fight against organised crime, terrorism, illegal migration, economic crime, money laundering and cybercrime. For these reasons, the AL-A Group will vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u248	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u249	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u250	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, it is very important that agreements of this kind be developed to ensure police cooperation, particularly on borders such as Austria and Italy, which can present problems. International terrorism, organised crime, the illegal trade in arms and drugs and, in this case, illegal immigration must be combated together. The whole content of the Treaty is entirely acceptable, from the right to pursue, even across borders, to the right to request assistance from the other border. We believe that these treaties are made and then walls are erected, perhaps those walls that Italy itself had to erect with regard to the problem of illegal immigration. We then subscribe to the treaties with Austria, which perhaps we should have been inspired in the management of a problem, such as that of immigration, which our country has never been able to solve or address. In any event, the vote of the Lega Nord Group will be in favour of ratification of the Agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u251	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u252	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u253	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, we will certainly be voting in favour of the draft law ratifying and approving this agreement, but as this is an issue which concerns Italy and Austria, I would like to mention something very topical at a time when we are talking about tearing down the walls and not building them. In today's newspaper "The Messenger," Maria Giovanna Arcamone, on behalf of the Accademia della Crusca, recalled that on the border with Austria, in South Tyrol-South Tyrol, Italian names are being deleted. There is an orientation - without there being a defence from the Commissioner of Government and this Government - to delete names that are now a hundred years old and are part of the consolidated history of that Region, in which Italians also live. Therefore, we find ourselves in the contradictory situation whereby in Istria and Dalmatia our minority can hardly guarantee a minimum of toponymy and bilingualism, in areas that have been Italian for centuries - I think of Istria and Rijeka - while in Italy the German minority, which must be absolutely protected and which has the right to have its names, which the Democratic Republic has guaranteed him since 1945, is deleting the Italian names in that Region. There is an alarm launched everywhere by intellectuals and an appeal from the Accademia della Crusca, which I want to remember here. Speaking of international agreements with Austria, I think it is really contradictory to allow our history and our names, which are now consolidated and do not bother anyone in Italy. In declaring the vote in favour of the adoption of the draft law under consideration, intervening in the Senate in the presence of the Undersecretary for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, I remember what is happening, unfortunately - as it seems to me - in general indifference. [[Applause from Senators Formigoni and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u254	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u255	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u256	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, our assessment of the 5 Star Movement Group's report is radically opposed. We therefore announce our vote in favour of the ratification and implementation of the Agreement between Italy and Austria, also because the relations between the Austrian Government and the Italian Government are excellent. Thanks to these reports, it was also possible to prevent the serious crisis of last spring, which colleagues, Movement 5 Stars, may no longer remember. In that eventuality there was great tension for the arrival of several thousands of immigrants, risking also the blockade of the border of Brenner, with serious damage for the economy, especially for the Italian one. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] It was possible to prevent this, thanks to the excellent work done by Minister Alfano, for which he was publicly thanked by the then Chancellor Faymann, first, and then by the current Austrian Chancellor Kern. I do not understand very well what this International Agreement has to do with the problem of toponymy in the province of Bolzano, but I can reassure my colleague Giovanardi: with the rule we are discussing in the Joint Committee (I remember that my colleague Senator Palermo is President of the so-called Committee of the Six) we are doing nothing but translate and implement an Agreement signed by the Minister for Regional Affairs of the time, Raffaele Fitto, and then by Minister Delrio. Obviously it is not a question of deleting Italian names in use, but simply of finding an agreement on how to deal with this complex problem, with all the guarantees that we have provided for all language groups, without there being any risk for the Italian language group to undergo decisions by the German and Ladin language groups. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u257	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u259	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, in declaring our Group's vote in favour, I would like to stress that, if this agreement has a defect, it should have been ratified immediately. In the meantime, the situation with regard to migrants has become more tense and relations between us and the Austrian authorities have had to be intensified. These reports, which have intensified, within the draft law ratifying and implementing the Agreement refer to the decision of the Council of Europe and the United Nations Conventions on illicit drug trafficking, against transnational organised crime and also to the control of forced immigration. It is therefore an agreement which positively enters into a problematic dynamic, but which in some way helps to keep the dialogue in place and to address such a complex problem as the one that we (and Austria in the second instance) are currently experiencing on the migration situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u260	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u261	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u262	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u263	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u264	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2524, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Corsini, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u265	, f. f. Madam President, the draft law before us, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies, is the ratification of the 2013 Agreement establishing a European Patent Court of the European Union. At present, patent protection is ensured, including in the Member States of the European Union, by domestic or international legislation, in particular the 1973 Munich Convention. The European Patent Office confines itself to facilitating the process of issuing the European patent, but does not provide for a procedure for the maintenance of the patent, nor appropriate judicial remedies. The purpose of the new European rules, including the Agreement today before us, is to create a comprehensive system of supranational patent protection, with uniform legal effectiveness throughout the European Union. As my colleagues will recall, Italy had initially chosen (like Spain) not to join the European patent because of the exclusion of the Italian language. Our position changed in 2015, also following certain parliamentary resolutions and on the basis of an overall assessment of the benefits of the new rules. Moreover, as we will soon see, the UK's exit from the European Union could allow the recovery of a role for the Italian language. The first part of the Agreement concerns general and institutional provisions, establishes the unified court and defines its legal status and structure. There is a court of first instance (with the central division in Paris and sections in Munich and London, the latter of course to be allocated to another city), an appeal court and a registry. Subsequent articles lay down rules on the criteria and procedures for appointing judges and their status. The second part of the Agreement is devoted to the financial provisions, while the third part regulates the organisation and procedural aspects of the court I will dwell a moment on the language regime of the procedures before the court. The Agreement provides, with exceptions, that one of the official languages of the State hosting the relevant division (which are currently based in Paris, London and Munich) may be used in proceedings. The London section will of course be cancelled with the UK leaving the European Union. In view of the identification of a new headquarters, Italy certainly has the cards in order to apply to host a detached section and in this case it would be recognized a role of importance. The draft law also introduces amendments to the internal legislation on intellectual and industrial property in order to adapt it to the new European rules. In particular, Legislative Decree No 168 of 2003 establishing specialised sections in courts and tribunals of appeal, excluding from the knowledge of these sections the precautionary and substantive actions of exclusive jurisdiction of the unified court. The total commitment of expenditure for our country, net of the lower revenues deriving for the treasury, is estimated in approximately 650,000 euros per year in the initial phase to reach, in regime, in 2024, about 400,000 euros per year. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u266	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to speak, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u267	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u268	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u269	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, the 5 Star Movement Group cannot agree with this text. We have already said this in the Commission and I repeat this in this House: I say no! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from Senator Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u270	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u272	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, the AL-A Group will vote in favour. The previous situation concerned the European Patent Office, which issued and limited itself to facilitating the path of patenting without any protection and without any supranational protection. Today, with the ratification of this Agreement, we are going to give this protection, so we are going to complete a path. Our vote will therefore be in favour of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u273	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u274	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u275	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking only to announce the support of the Lega Nord Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u276	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u277	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u278	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, the vote in favour of this ratification is also due to the fact that Italy, which is an innovative country, as well as the fourth European country for the number of patents presented, is also a country particularly characterized, in its innovation and its patents, by the widespread presence of small companies, little protected at international level and which can normally refer exclusively to the country's internal patent as a form of protection on international markets, knowing that it is a form of protection now very weak, even if recognized by the 1973 Munich Convention. The fact that a mechanism for the European recognition of patents is set in motion, despite the difficulties associated with the language that were highlighted in the report - in patents and especially in descriptive and technical parts - the language plays an important part; the decline of technical issues may vary according to the languages that are used - puts us in the face of a European institution, an equal path of evaluation of European merit and legal law for all countries. Therefore, in order to protect our small businesses, I declare that the vote will be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u279	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u280	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u281	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u282	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u283	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2311, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Corsini, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u284	Madam President, this Agreement follows the model drawn up by the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, within the framework of the initiatives for fiscal transparency and appears to be in line with the guidelines shared by Italy in the various multilateral fora for the strengthening of instruments to combat the phenomenon of international tax evasion. The purpose of the agreement, like others already discussed by the Assembly, is to promote cooperation between the tax administrations of the two parties through an exchange of information in tax matters necessary to ensure the achievement of adequate levels of transparency. As we reproduce a scheme that has already been put forward on other occasions and approved, I propose the adoption of the bill by the Assembly. I would also ask for permission to attach the remaining part of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u285	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to speak, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u286	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u287	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u288	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, once again I am announcing the vote in this House of the 5 Star Movement Group, which will be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u289	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u290	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u291	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, we, as the AL-A Group, are also voting in favour of this ratification, which follows the many tax agreements that we have already approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u292	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u293	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u294	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are also in favour of the exchange of information between control bodies, given that Liechtenstein has always been considered a very opaque country and, therefore, in favour of concealing the assets of those who want to escape. We hope that there will be a benefit in terms of recovering this escaped tax base, also in the light of the new budget law that provides for facilities for the return of capital to our country. We hope that with this document there will be the result that is hoped for. We know, however, that the best defence against tax evasion remains the simplicity of a tax system and the fairness of levies, which unfortunately no longer exist in our country. In any case, we are in favour of exchanging information to make evasion increasingly difficult.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u295	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u296	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u297	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, in declaring my Group's vote in favour, I would like to point out that in several of these ratifications concerning economic and fiscal exchanges, reports, information and everything else, there is a stable reference to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, that is to the OECD, which is one of the major supranational bodies regulating trade, the market and which give assessments of the international economic situation. It seems to me that we are now entering into tax matters, but it could also be true in industrial and other matters, in a very important area of multinational cooperation, also from the point of view of our country's international policies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u298	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u299	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u300	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u301	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u302	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u303	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u304	Mr Albano (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Teatro Stabile in Genoa, founded in 1951, celebrates sixty-five years of life this year and yesterday, on 17 October, the celebrations of this important birthday began. One of the most glorious public theatres in Italy that has a long history, during which the Stabile has consistently represented one of the highest moments, at national and international level, of the culture elaborated in Genoa. Even today, the influence of the theatre reaches an average of between 250,000 and 350,000 visitors per season. To these numbers, to the impressive series of tours made around Italy, it must be added that over the years the theatre has brought 27 shows abroad, staging 383 performances in 58 cities. In Italy, these figures are second only to those of the Piccolo Teatro di Milano. Next to the theatre activity, there is also the school of acting of the Teatro Stabile, recently dedicated to Mariangela Melato and directed by Annalaura Messeri. Among the great actors who have collaborated for a long time with the Teatro Stabile in Genoa, I would like to mention, among the many, Enrico Maria Salerno, Alberto Lionello, Valeria Valeri, Gastone Moschin, Lina Volonghi, the same Mariangela Melato. Today, unfortunately, public funding is becoming increasingly uncertain, with the risk of putting into difficulty a historical cultural reality whose activity should instead be safeguarded and preserved. And, then, I hope that the celebrations for the sixty-five years of the theatre, which take place precisely these days, will be an opportunity to preserve the memory of the Italian theatre and the Stabile Theatre, but also a way to reflect on the future of art and culture in Italy, facing the cultural challenges that a constantly evolving world presents to us all.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u305	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u306	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u307	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, we have read from the agencies - Parliament has not been interested - of the incredible vote by which Italy abstained on a motion by UNESCO which incredibly - I repeat - rewrites the history of humanity. It is as if in Jerusalem there had never historically been the presence of the Jewish people, as if what we have read about the Gospels or the historical story related to Christianity had arisen in an unknown way. In the motion that of Jerusalem is a reality that is ascribed only to those who certainly have rights over it, but it arrived centuries later as the Jewish people were already assigned to it. These are matters of paramount importance. It does not escape anyone that this is a propaganda that then becomes a document within a body in which Italy already a few years ago, by surprise, moving away from other European countries and the United States, allowed to enter the Palestinian representation, which was not yet recognized. No one escapes that statements of this kind legitimize the extremism of those who want to wipe out the Jewish presence and Israel from the face of the earth. No one escapes that these motions help violence and terrorism. Has the Italian Government made this decision at the request of the President of the Council? The Minister of Foreign Affairs? Where and when has it been decided that Italy should vote motions that condemn Israel to be attacked and vile by denying the historical roots of its existence and its legitimacy to exist? This thing hasn't gone unnoticed. Tomorrow there will be a sit-in in front of UNESCO. All people, who remember not in words the condemnation of the Holocaust of the Jewish people, are today indignant at the moment when they remember that tragedy and invoke criminal sanctions against those who deny the Holocaust, while our Government, abstaining, supports shameful motions of this kind that deny at the root the historical existence and legitimacy of the Jewish people's presence in that reality. It is a complaint that I believe it was necessary to make and we always remain quietly waiting for an answer from the Italian Government. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u308	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u309	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u310	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, about seventy-eight years ago, racial laws were passed in this House and in the other branch of Parliament: an indelible shame in our history, but at least then the forms were respected. Parliament was consulted, even if a Parliament such as could have been formed in a time of dictatorship. But someone had the opportunity to express themselves and someone did not vote. Of course, those who abstained committed an act of ignorance. This same act of ignavia was carried out by the Italian Government last week, when it abstained in the vote on a motion, presented to the Council of UNESCO, on the name to be used with reference to the Mount of the Temple, that mountain - to be understood - where still today are visible the steps on which Jesus and his disciples passed to climb to the Temple, which was a Jewish temple and not a mosque. It may surprise the Italian Government, but it was a Jewish temple, also because Islam was founded almost exactly six hundred years later. That Jewish temple was not any Jewish temple, but the center, then as today, as for more than two thousand years, of Jewish life, feeling and culture. Well, our government, on a motion of this kind, has courageously abstained. Ignatia is worse than evil; and there is no laughable excuse in this case - in my opinion - to say that other European countries have also done the same. It is not true: other European countries have voted, in accordance with dignity and historical and cultural truth, against this obscene motion. I agree with what Senator Giovanardi said: this is not only a symbolic act, but an encouragement to terrorists and those who want to erase the Jewish State with violence, bombs and blood, which - I remember - is a United Nations State before Italy. Italy entered the United Nations a little later, because it had something to be forgiven, the abyss that the Government evidently wants to deepen with this vote, which is an absolute shame. It is a vote - I repeat what I said at the beginning - expressed without even respecting the forms, which even the fascist regime did not do. At least the fascist regime submitted the decision to the vote of the Assembly. Here, however, Parliament has not been consulted, because I want to hope, and I am sure that this reproach would not have received a majority either in this House or in the other branch of Parliament. The Government, with an act of contempt for the truth, for culture, for the religion of so many Italians and for Parliament, has decided to put all this under our feet by abstaining on this shameful motion. I therefore call on the Government to report on what has happened. We know that you are allergic to reporting, because I have been waiting for two and a half years from the Government to explain why, again in the United Nations, you voted against a document in favour of families. We hope that this time he will make an exception, but above all that we are officially repented - and before all - of this obscene and shameful vow that renews the shame of the racial laws of 1938.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u311	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-703.ana.u312	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, October 19, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.30 p.m.
