ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 11 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, by letter sent yesterday to the pro-tempore President of the Conservative and Reformist Group, the Presidency noted that the numerical requirements required by Rule 14 (4) of the Rules of Procedure were not met. Subsequently, by letter dated today, Senator Bonfrisco announced that she was joining the Senator Compagna's Group, which she accepted. Therefore, the Conservatives and Reformists Group is again regularly established. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u7	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, as you have already said, yesterday I received your communication, in which I find it curious that the number of ten senators required by our Rules of Procedure, which form the fundamental basis of a group, is missing. I have allowed myself, in taking note respectfully of your statement, to appeal to all political forces that intend to counter the forcings of this legislature - and this I consider to be one of those - to the detriment of the correct and civil relationship between majority and opposition, by political initiatives, and not only, which are distorting the regular conduct of parliamentary action. Just think of what we see, for example, going on stage in this House today on a subject that is relevant to our country and to our society, that of civil unions, but that we have already seen aired on the equally important issue of the democratic institution and that process of reforms that lead to an inconvenient and messy solution for the Senate. Together with other colleagues, I have done my best to ensure to the Senate Assembly the contribution of a serious and constructive opposition to the country that, by fighting that poisonous Nazarene pact, intends to remain bound to the mandate entrusted to us by the center-right citizens who elected us to be politically alternative to the PD of Renzi and to any other PD. That is why I very much thank the member of the senators who refer to the parliamentary initiative Idea; I thank them because, through this method (that of the accession of a senator belonging to that component), they have today taken the decision to leave a serious and constructive form of opposition to this majority alive. I thank them not only personally, but above all politically, also for the words they have been able to use in their statement, all linked to the life of the internal democracy of this House and of the country. That this may be the wish for the correct reconstruction of an area of the moderates of the center-right that does not bend to that party of the nation that someone would like surreptitiously to build, without going through the will of the electoral citizens, but, against those electors, by crossroads - through the passage into parliamentary groups without political connotation, but useful for this purpose - to build a party that has not had - and I do not think - the support, the support and not even the appreciation of the Italian citizens, certainly not those of the center-right. [[Applause from the CoR Group (GAL) (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and FI-PdL XVII and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u10	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I was surprised when I heard about the letter you sent to the leader, Senator Bonfrisco. For that spirit of closeness, which cannot but animate our group of opposition to that of Senator Bonfrisco, despite the many differences that there have been, and that may be minor in the future, there is something that does not make sense to me, Mr President. Today will be a particularly complicated day for the Presidency and I would not like to complicate it any further, but I remember an antipathetic debate at the Conference of Leaders in which, with violent insistence, the AL-A Group Leader asked you to enforce Rule 14 of our Rules of Procedure. It has been discussed, it has also been said that this was not the subject of the Conference of Leaders, but that antipathetic debate has ended - and everyone will remember it - with the decision to convene the Presidency Council, so it is true that the Presidency Council, in the e-mail that some members have shown me, is convened for Thursday 18, with Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure itself on the agenda. Firstly, I do not understand what the convening of the Presidency Council is for, and secondly, I understand that the letter you have decided to send to Senator Bonfrisco contradicts, in part or totally, what was decided at the meeting of the Group Leaders; or rather, not decided: what was communicated to us there and which could not and should not be the subject of the Conference of Group Leaders itself. I repeat, Mr President: I would not like to see double standards used, as sometimes happens or as may happen later, if it was decided in that Chamber that the Presidency Council, which is certainly a consultative body in the free discretion of the power that belongs to it, should nevertheless be convened (therefore a council or a suggestion had to be given to it), did not understand why you considered to anticipate any conclusions, which we did not know what they might be, of the Presidency Council itself. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u13	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, on this subject I agree with what my colleague Mr Romani said at the moment. But I say more. We, at the meeting of the Leaders, had made a decision: we had established that there should be certain procedures before declaring a loose group; we had talked about the Presidency Council and some of us had also proposed to follow that practice, which had been used previously, which gives time to the Group that has the problem of having one less senator than the expected number to see if there is the possibility of achieving an ideal solution, as happened in this case. Mr President, you are a referee - we have said so on more than one occasion - and being a referee also means taking decisions, often not shared, but it is also true that, when you use a particular procedure, in the next parliamentary term you should use the same measure of judgment and action against all the parliamentary groups. You cannot, at a time when there is a problem with a majority parliamentary group, use the institutional bonus and, consequently, allow that group to have a month to resolve its problems and then, when the same thing happens to a minority group, instead, in less than a week, declare it dissolved. Two things are not right, Mr President. They have also been used in the past on other issues: decrees-laws and constitutional reforms. The hope is that what we are recommending at the moment, that is, greater attention to decisions, there is also on the occasion of the draft law that we are going to deal with (we will enter into hot issues in a few seconds). Consequently, the request that we make to them is, in the future, to use the same method used for those who are in the majority. There can be no A Series Groups and B Series Groups, A Series Senators and B Series Senators. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] Let us welcome the fact that the Group has been reconstituted and that there is once again a free voice within this Senate. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u14	Colleagues, article 14, paragraph 6, of the Rules of Procedure provides that when members of a regularly constituted Group are reduced during the legislative term to a number of less than ten, the Group is declared dissolved and the senators who were members of it, if within three days of the declaration of dissolution do not join other Groups, they are enrolled in the Mixed Group. The only possibility of evaluating the Presidency Council to give permission to maintain the Group with less than ten members is when the Group represents a party or a movement organized with the same mark in at least 15 regions. So you know very well that the Presidency Council had been summoned to have time to assess whether or not these conditions were in place. Ensure these conditions, according to the principle of self-protection (prince cardinal of the administration), the paragraph 6 of the article has been applied, with the Group's declaration of dissolution, which has now been reconstituted. Therefore, let us proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u16	Senator Volpi, the parent company Centinario has already spoken on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u17	In any case, he has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u18	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, allow me to speak as a member of the Presidency Council... PRESIDENT. - The debate is However, I will have to upset the Presidency Council, unless there are issues on the agenda, in order to supplement it. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, you had to upset the Presidency Council when you sent the letter to President Bonfrisco, because it does not work that way. You who are a man of rules, you begin to use them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I ask you this because you are the owner of this House, but not of my life. So, please tell me whether Thursday, after this House, the Presidency Council will meet or not. But you should have told me yesterday.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u19	Senator Volpi, once summoned to the Presidency Council, failed that issue on the agenda. I had reserved the right to include other items on the agenda and to communicate them. Can't a president even evaluate this? In any case, if there are no other reasons, you will know on a day that the Presidency Council has been misrepresented.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u21	Senator Gasparri, your Parent Company has already spoken on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u22	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking very briefly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I share what Senator Volpi said. He could've gotten off the hook since... president. I already answered. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). And he got it wrong. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u23	I have responded well, because perhaps there will be another reason for convening the Presidency Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u24	[[Senator Palma's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 118 (7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate provides that the technical arrangements for the use of the electronic device are governed by instructions approved by the Council of Presidency, which, consequently, in all respects supplement the same regulatory provisions. I would remind you that the instructions on the electronic voting procedure adopted by the Council of President on 23 January 2008 clearly indicate how each senator's identification card is to be used to verify the quorum of the ordinary vote corresponding to the vote by show of hands and the counter-test of the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot and the secret ballot. Subsequently, the Council of President, by Resolution No 106 of 2011, specifically regulated the criteria for the allocation of absences from the work of the Assembly, as well as the methods for recording the administrative presence. In accordance with the combined provisions of the recalled deliberations of the Presidency Council and the Rules of Procedure concerning the deliberations of the Senate and the voting procedures (in particular Articles 108, 113, 114, 115 and 117), it remains without prejudice, as a guarantee of the free, unconditional power of expression of its vote by the individual senators, to the possibility that the senators, even though they are present in the Chamber, do not necessarily express their vote or make their presence known for the purposes of verifying the quorum, without such conduct leading to a consequence for administrative purposes, such as to prejudice or restrict the extent of the power of decisions recognised to the Member as such, even more so in the necessary awareness of the mechanisms for the protection of minorities. It is, of course, a case that is widely deepened by doctrine and consolidated in terms of certain practice and parliamentary custom, in the light of which there is evidence of the occurrence of senators present, but not voting, both with regard to the substantive deliberations, according to the broad articulation described above, and with reference to the verification of the quorum of a constituent nature directly attributable to the forecasts referred to in Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure. However, in no case, even indirectly, the protections and guarantees provided by the legislation in force can allow a diversion from the fundamental aims on the basis of which the institutions referred to have originated and received a comprehensive definition, let alone allow surreptitious forms of degeneration, leaving to random verification indices the punctual sanctionability of abuses or conduct elusive, which subtract from the principle of transparency and responsibility manifestly improper behaviour. In this regard, it is worth recalling the provisions of Article 2 (2) of the aforementioned Resolution of the Council of Presidency No 106 of 2011: If, prior to the proclamation of the result of a qualified vote or a verification of the quorum, the President finds that a voting card is present in the system despite the absence of the Senator's General Assembly, he shall ensure that the card is withdrawn immediately. In conclusion, in the light of the powers conferred on the Council of President by Article 118 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, as well as the deliberations of the same Council of Presidency referred to above, I inform you that, in order to ensure full and timely respect for the rules concerning the collection of attendances, including for administrative purposes, the senators who depart from the Chamber are required to carry their card with them and that in any case, where there is no real presence in the Assembly during the voting, pursuant to Article 2 (2) of the Resolution of the Council of Presidency No 106 of 2011, the same cards will be withdrawn, without prejudice to the possibility by the Presidency, pursuant to paragraph 3 of the same Article, once the facts have been established, to order the return of the card to the senator, and to provide that, in respect of the senators responsible, the day on which the event occurred, the deduction of the diary should apply. Finally, as laid down in paragraph 4 of the same article, the provisions of Article 66 et seq. of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate remain strictly disciplinaryly applicable, in such a way that, especially in the face of the repetition of conduct contrary to the requirements previously prescribed, the Presidency Council will be asked, without hesitation, of the related issues of specific competence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u28	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would just like to say two things about the speech you have just finished reading. The first: if I walk away, I leave my card and after two minutes return, you have no chance to return it to me, but you have an obligation to return it to me. If he never gave it back to me, for a mere forgetfulness he would prevent me from performing that parliamentary role for which I was elected. I therefore believe that perhaps this part of your deliberations would deserve further consideration. Secondly, I fully agree with you that, should a senator leave the card and not make any use of it, you can take whatever measures you want, obviously in the absence of the Member. However, out of curiosity, Mr President, if I have done 90 votes, I will turn away and then return, so I have done much more than two thirds of the votes, do you reserve the power to speak on the diary? As far as the facts are concerned, I believe that this is a contradiction. I therefore agree with the point of your speech and I believe that such behaviour, which I do not intend to object to in any way, must in any way be hindered or punished, and I would be grateful if you would pay attention to the two objections I have raised. The first is that I have the right to enter the Chamber and get my card back: the next steps are not my concern, but I have the right to vote. The second is that I strongly doubt that a disciplinary measure will remove my diary if I have carried out more than a third of the votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u29	Perhaps the reading was not clear enough, because I spoke of evaluation in the course of the vote. Therefore, for the purposes of voting and before each vote, the attention of the secretary senators is particularly desirable when assessing whether there are cards in places where there are no senators, especially before the votes. That's the point. Secondly, the card will be returned at the time when it was a momentary removal. However, the daily problem will be assessed for administrative purposes, so it has nothing to do with it. I therefore believe that the clarifications are already contained in the text that I have read.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u32	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I am speaking on your communications. First of all, I find her bitter taste, because as soon as a dog is born, a dusty delegitimation of the senators and of our work, immediately we hurry to echo this controversy. I would therefore like to make three positive points. First of all, the rules are there, let's make everyone respect them. It is not possible that the senators are bound by these rules, whereas the members of the Presidency Council or the members of the Government are not, because some must exercise a proper obligation of presence, while others do not have such an obligation and we do not understand why, since the body must function with the votes of all. Secondly, with regard to the attendance to be recorded, I have been here several times, speaking in the morning, in the afternoon, in the Commission, in the night sitting and being classified as absent, because in the only vote of the day at 9 a.m. maybe the taxi arrived late. Therefore, we do not link attendances only to an electronic fact, but also to the real presence, to the senator's participation. Finally - and I say this to the President but also to the journalistic friends - no more television broadcasts or conferences on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, because if the Member is in one of the many debates he cannot be in the Chamber, because he does not have the possibility of a bilocation. Only members of the Presidency Council or of the Government, who could theoretically be present at the same time and participate in parliamentary life outside Parliament in a legitimate way, and if all the others participate in activities, which the role requires, of debate outside Parliament, would be reported as absent. So television broadcasts or conferences can be done on Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays, and when the House meets, Members know that they have to be here to do their duty.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u33	We greet students, students, escorts and teachers of the State Institute of Higher Education (Fermi-Mattei) in Isernia, who follow our work. We thank you for your presence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u36	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, you have informed the House of your deliberative act, and President Palma has pointed out to you that, at the time when the senator comes to ask for the card that has been withdrawn by the parliamentary assistants, the President orders its return: this is if I have understood the deliberative act well. So you attributed yourself, as Senator Palma said, to the power to order the return. In the absence of such an order, the assistant is not obliged to return the card to the senator, which determines that limitation of the performance of the senator's duties to which Senator Palma referred. Perhaps, Mr President, in my opinion, at least in this part the act of deliberation should be amended, also in order to relieve you of the burden of making so many orders of return, because you would be forced, senator by senator, to make a measure ordering the return. At least that was the reading you gave of the resolution. If it is to be interpreted differently, at this point the authentic interpretation of the author of the deliberative act.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u37	Senator Falanga, there is a resolution in which you say that. In any case, in my resolution - as you say - it says that the facts have been made known to us; therefore, since the Presidency remains the task of ascertaining the facts and then deciding, the Presidency will assume this responsibility, in this and in other cases.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u40	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to remind Senator Giovanardi that we are here to legislate and work in this House and in the Commission. Going on TV doesn't seem like our homework.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u41	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2081, 14, 197, 239, 314, 909, 1211, 1231, 1316, 1360, 1745, 1763, 2069 and 2084.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u42	Mr President, I would like to speak so that at least we can make some clarity between ourselves, and I think it is necessary, even if someone does not care because the important thing is to follow the party lines and go on television and tell you what they tell you to say. As we said at the Conference of Group Leaders and on more than one occasion, even at informal meetings and in the press, it is not our use and our intention to obstruct this measure. I would ask colleagues in the press, particularly the press, to understand and to take notes on what I am saying: we do not want to obstruct, and we have said so on more than one occasion. We have tabled 5,000 substantive amendments on this subject. [[Ironic applause from the PD Group]] , in which we talk about the subject in question. At the same time, we have said something very clear, and even in this case we die more clearly than this: we want to send this provision home; we do not like this provision. We do not like the fact that Article 29 of the Constitution is not respected; we do not like the fact that we want to allow adoptions to homosexual couples, because for us the family is made by a man and a woman, who, if they are lucky to become parents, become father and mother. This is what we want to do. But we want to do so in this House, not with obstructionism but with our amendments. We said this from the beginning and we repeated it even when the famous superkangaroo Marcucci was presented. At the same time as his presentation, given that we had been asked the question, we had made ourselves available - and this was the agreement - to withdraw 90% of the amendments in the face of the withdrawal of the super-amendment Marcucci. We proposed this and we were prepared to do this: from 5,200 amendments we were going down to 580 amendments, knowing very well what would happen about the 580 amendments. I repeat, therefore, that this is not obstructionism. And therefore, Mr President, when I hear colleagues say that we must continue the Marcucci amendment, the super amendment, the kangaroo, in order to cope with the obstructionism of the League - and even today I hear of the obstructionism of the League - I refer these statements to the sender. And I'm so convinced that I'm going to send them back to the sender, that I'm going to challenge the Democratic Party today. For a week we wasted time, then I was told that the agreement did not contain what we had said, that 500 amendments were too many and we had to reduce them, finally they came to give me the fleas on the contents. Well, on the contents the fleas do not make them to me, because ours is a free movement that I do not accept diktat from anyone on the contents, let alone from those who do not respect their own word! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I therefore challenge you and do so in this House: what I have in my hands is the list of the amendments that remain and that I am going to hand over to the Presidency; I challenge the blah-blah-blah of politics to come along with me and bring the Marcucci amendment! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Blah-blah-blah! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, AP (NCD-UDC) and GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u45	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, following Mr Centinario's speech, I believe that we have a duty in this House to speak to ourselves outside hypocrisy, because it seems to me that this measure of hypocrisy has been used and abused. Let us begin by saying that this is not the first time that the so-called kangaroo has entered this House. It had already happened a year ago, during the examination of the electoral law, when this improper weapon, with at the bottom, if I remember correctly, the first signature of Senator Esposito, was used to face a very hard obstructionism of over 50,000 amendments. This does not make the use of the kangaroo less illegal, but today it makes even more serious the fact that a device so seriously alien to the rules of our Rules of Procedure is used, for the second time in a year, to a much more contained amending activity and, if it is true what Senator Centinario has told us, the readiness of the League and the opposition to withdraw most of the amendments, in the presence of a text already illegitimately removed from the examination of the competent Commission. We, Mr President, have limited our amendments to less than 100, we have publicly expressed the desire to halve them further, and we have hoped that a restoration of constitutional legality in the work of this House could facilitate the reduction of the number of amendments by other opposition forces, which had tabled many more. In short, there was a need for a solution that would see a regular debate in this House and for acts which I do not believe are compatible with our Rules of Procedure to fail to be alibied. But, in view of this willingness, which has been expressed several times, to reduce the number of amendments, the PD has come up with a claim that I would like someone to clarify. Senator Zanda, frankly I cannot understand why - if I understood correctly, but I hope I was wrong - the negotiation is not on the number of amendments but on which amendments can stand and which must be withdrawn because they are considered more dangerous because of the internal conflicts present in this House and, in particular, in the majority party. If that were the case - I hope I was wrong - we had seen it in all its colors, but we did not see that a Leader of a majority party would also claim to be the Leader of an opposition party. Frankly, we haven't seen this yet. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Giovanardi and Formigoni.]] Mr President, I come to the regulatory issue. I have the conviction - I believe you too - that the kangaroo is only an artifice, moreover illegitimate. This is certified by the fact that the kangaroo is an amendment that does not amend anything, which has no legal content. It appears, in fact, as a premissive amendment which, in substance, contains a summary illustration of the content of the entire bill in our examination. It is a very dubious practice from the point of view of the legislative technique, since the summary, besides being obviously useless, could lead to doubts, uncertainties and difficulties of application. In short, that amendment does not have the function of correcting or supplementing the text, but the sole purpose of bringing down a large part of the other amendments; in essence, all those who seek to correct the text in question by making changes to the parts that are the subject of a summary in the kangaroo. Mr President, this illegality is aggravated by the fact that in this case we are not in the presence of a measure which, at least formally, has passed from the Commission's scrutiny. I mean, we are not kangarooing an instrumental obstructionism of this House. Senators are being prevented from amending a text that has been taken from the competent Commission. And it was done - you will remember that, Mr President - in October. Today is mid-February. Where are the reasons for urgency that had to be provided for? Article 72 of the Constitution - I remind you - in addition to providing for examination in the Commission, requires that the laws should be approved article by article and the doctrine unanimously believes that this provision also includes the ability of each Member to table amendments to the draft law under discussion which must be discussed and voted on in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Obviously, with the introduction of a premissive and summary amendment, this option is emptied of all content and almost all parliamentary amendments lose all procedural value. In essence, the whole examination of the draft law is concentrated in the only vote on the premissive amendment, approved by which the amendments lapse and only the articles which reaffirm and detail what is already provided for by the kangaroo or, perhaps, those which the relative majority will ask to leave alive. Mr President, with the premissive summing-up amendment we are, in essence, going to determine a situation similar to that which occurs when the Government presents a large amendment that reproduces exactly the draft law in question and raises the question of trust. But at least in that case, the government questions itself. So what is being taken away from the Assembly is somehow balanced by the risk that the government decides to run. In this case we are not in this situation. The doctrine is unanimous, and you know it. It is also the case law of the Court that says that there are strong doubts about the legality of this practice. If, as has been said, the maxi amendments are a scam to the Constitution (not an expression of mine), the summing up premissive amendments are a scam squared by the Constitution. In this case there are also two aggravating factors. Firstly, the major amendments generally reproduce the text as it emerged from the work of the Parliamentary Commission. This time, however, as I have already said, the Commission has been deprived of its prerogatives. Secondly, we are faced with a masked vote of confidence, which sees a majority vote against (I am referring to the NCD Group) and a part of the opposition vote in favour. This is unheard of, Mr President, simply unheard of. I would also like to point out to you that we must add yet another imaginative interpretation of Rule 102 of our Rules of Procedure, which reads in paragraph 2: If several amendments have been tabled to the same text, the deletions and then the others shall be put to the vote first, starting with those which most depart from the original text and in accordance with the order in which they oppose, join or add to it. Therefore, not only has the introduction of a premissive amendment been incredibly authorised, but the Rules of Procedure are also being deceived, by putting Marcucci's amendment to the vote first, although it is, among the premissive, the most faithful, albeit hasty and inaccurate, to the text under discussion. With an elementary typographical artifice, the Marcucci amendment was first included in the files, without providing, as per the Rules of Procedure, for it to be voted last among the premissives. I know you care a lot about the Gospel saying that the last ones will be the first. However, Mr President, this once again violates our Rules of Procedure. I would like, Mr President, that, in accordance with the rules that this House has laid down, you should assume the burden that your high institutional role gives you and, to me and my colleagues, make clear your clear and clear intention to use the option of changing the voting order, which gives you paragraph 4 of the same Article 102. At least we will know why we find the amendments so ordered. On the other hand, if the economics of the work of this House, according to its interpretation, can also be understood as a limitation of democracy, of which these walls should be supreme guarantors, then I invite you to show us your decision. If that were not the case, I would expect the voting order of the premissive amending proposals to be reversed in relation to the printed file, as provided for in the rule. Finally, Mr President, let me ask you why, more than a week after the beginning of the debate on this draft law, you did not consider it necessary to exercise the power, which provides for you in Rule 97 of our Rules of Procedure, to declare that the amendments tabled in this House are inadmissible and inadmissible. Moreover, this would have helped us save time in the interests of the economy and the clarity of our work. However, if we are to read Mr Marcucci's amendment carefully, it is clear that, according to the rules used by the Presidency in declaring its opinion under Article 97, the same should be declared impossible, at least in some parts of it, because of its wording. Mr President, in order not to waste your time, I would just like to give you a few examples: in point (a) the conditions for a union to be defined as a civil union, both positive and negative, are listed, but we forget to specify the causes of nullity and the reasons for preventing it. Point (c) refers to the general provisions of the Civil Code on the patrimony of the family and food, referring in a superficial and unfaithful way all the explicit references contained in Article 3, paragraph 3, of the draft law in question. In letter (e), then, reference is made to the rights successors of the family referring to an institution that does not exist in our civil code: the rights successors are reserved to the spouse or children, but never, in our civil code, generically to the family. These are just a few examples, Mr President, which ensure that the Marcucci amendment fits in illogically, imprecisely and contradictoryly in the text of bill 2081. These, as you teach us, are necessary elements to decree the impponibility of the same or at least those parts of it that are clearly impossible. Finally, I would like to make an invitation to the whole of this House, an appeal to the senators and in particular to those who have the views most distant from my own on the Cirinna bill. You see, Mr President, you can fight with an open face, and as far as I am concerned, we should have a debate on this issue and then assume the burden, in front of our conscience, of giving free votes. You can fight with an open face, but the rules are a patrimony of all: first of all the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, who have tried to enforce the rules many times. It seems incredible to me that a measure of this importance, which will mark in depth the civil life of our country, can pass or be rejected in the contempt of the rules that are of all. I call for a minimum of decency in this area to be restored; for only a few amendments are discussed, and for a clear vote to be taken on them, each one in the face of his own conscience. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL), AP (NCD-UDC) and FI-PdL XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u48	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, what I am going to do is something I would have preferred not to do. I say this both in my capacity as Parent Company and in my previous capacity as former President of the Senate; you will allow me and I apologize. You see, President, by referring to Senator Quagliariello's considerations, I would like to add something else, although many arguments will be similar. It is true, in Parliament since democracy was activated in our country, that the political attitude of obstruction has always existed, in an attempt to slow down the legislative process or, sometimes, even boycott it because the text did not agree with it. In the past many techniques have allowed, in compliance with the internal rules, to paralyse these manoeuvres, using the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure. The most famous, most obvious and most historical technique was that of the kangaroo rules, which allowed, by one vote, to preclude those principles contained in other amendments contrary to the principle of the kangaroo amendment. There are so many precedents on this. We have lived through them both on the one hand and on the other, but they have always been rules that have respected one concept: the amending function of this Parliament's Assembly. On this point I would like to draw up the logic of my speech. These were sometimes amendments, Mr President, which were also entirely replaced by draft laws which arrived at this House. By intervening in full replacement amendments, all the cluster amendments related to the part that was replaced by that replacement amendment obviously lapsed. But there was always a logic of amendment, i.e. a change in relation to the text before the House, the result of the Commission's work, or that it had finished its work, or that it had not finished it, as in this case. Recently, from what I understand (although perhaps the offices will bring out some precedents, albeit legitimate), the hypothesis of a premissive amendment has arisen in this House. There are many kinds of premissive amendments; the last one that made people talk about themselves was - let us say so - the Esposito amendment on the electoral law, which, being premissive, through the enunciation of principles, allowed to bring down many obstructive proposals (I do not want the colleagues of the League: they were 30,000 amendments) that wanted to paralyse the process of that electoral law. However, it was an electoral law that had followed a structured process (three readings), so Parliament had pronounced itself. I have to say, that the 5 Star Movement's colleagues opposed it then, effectively denouncing the Esposito amendment as a "trap amendment." I would like to remind my friend and co-regional colleague Crimi that in his speech he said: "They are all saying it now and for days there is news of this trap amendment that would practically render useless any other sub-eminent intervention on the law". [[Comments of Senator Marton]] You were asking a legitimate question. I'm quoting, I'm not contesting, I'm saying it with respect: you raised a problem. You will say, ladies and gentlemen, what the People's Area Group has done: we have been silent, we have neither contested nor endorsed, that is the limit. CRIMI (M5S). You voted for it. Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) But the truth is that, on that occasion, we had reached a third reading of the electoral law, so Parliament had already spoken. But you, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, have challenged the legitimacy of the premissive amendment. And I will tell you more: there have also been disputes by the Democratic Party. Senator Lo Moro, a very appreciated colleague, said, albeit on a personal basis: "I also think that this amendment should be declared inadmissible, because in Rule 100 (8) of the Rules of Procedure it is provided that the amendments have an innovative and preceptive content, but it does not seem to me that it has them. With this, Mr President, I would like to say that there has been a debate between the forces of majority and opposition, confirming the legitimacy of the doubts and remarks made to this technique, which is not an amendment, Mr President, but is a confirmation; with it, in my opinion, the function of the Senate Assembly and of the House, which wants to be amending or confirming, degrades and misleads itself, after carrying out an activity of control over the goodness of a text of law that the Commission has hesitated from. This is our function, not just to confirm, as if the text were to arrive in the drafting Chamber and as if the Marcucci amendment were to be adopted. If we were to approve the Marcucci amendment as it is, without any other possibility, we would have done only one drafting function in this House: to take or leave it as it is, without being able to amend it. Having said that, Mr President, I believe that - Mr Quagliariello mentioned it and I too want to do so - our Rules of Procedure, in confirmation of my thoughts, provide that in the examination of the amendments we start from the votes that are the most distant from the text that comes to this House, precisely in compliance with our function of verifying the sharing or not of a text that is proposed to us. That is what the Rules of Procedure say. Mr President, the Rules of Procedure also lay down other provisions, as regards Rule 100 (8): The President may, by unappellable decision, determine the inadmissibility of amendments which do not have any real modificative scope.............................................................................................................. This article is also the result of a circular by the President of the Senate (which you will surely know), sent to all colleagues, which in point 5.5 states that: Amendments with no real amending scope are inadmissible, unless they wish to make formal corrections.................................................................................................................. This provision, therefore, has not only been included in Article 100 (8) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, but has even been applied and made public through an internal circular by the President of the Senate declaring the amendments without an innovative scope inadmissible. Mr President, I have read very carefully Mr Marcucci's amendment, which has nothing innovative. Mr Marcucci's amendment confines itself to listing the points and headings already contained in the draft law, laying down unchangeable principles which, if adopted and if the detailed rules were not adopted, would make us run the risk of having an incomplete law. In fact, the principle would have been established, but we will not be able to regulate it because the House did not regulate in detail the applicability of the rule, the exclusions and the modalities. That too is a limit which I would like to draw your attention to, Mr President. Either we respect the desire to live in this House, playing the parliamentary and institutional role of cooperating in the parliamentary process, doing our duty, changing or sharing a text at the end of the votes, or we are all wrong, including me, who was among those who, at the time, did not contest the so-called Esposito amendment. However, the Esposito amendment - I repeat once again - came after the House had already expressed its opinion on ten amendments which had prevented parts of the measure. In this case, we are at the beginning of the sitting, even before any debate and vote, to vote on a number of principles which, if accepted by a majority, would lead to the adoption of a rule which would then be inemissable in the next part-session of the parliamentary procedure, laying down the text that has arrived in this Chamber with confirmation. Mr President, I think it is appropriate - and I should like to do so with due respect - to invite you to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to assess the admissibility of this amendment. Colleagues, you did not ask at the time of the Esposito amendment, you did not get to that. On the other hand, we are asking for it to apply also to the future. In fact, Mr President, if this principle were to pass, in the years of the parliamentary term that remain with us (if we remain with them), we risk finding other premissive amendments which will empty the physiology and the way of being, working and living of this branch of Parliament. [[Applause from the AP Groups (NCD-UDC) and FI-PdL XVIIe of Senators Di Biagio and Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u51	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are forced to speak at this point before the beginning of the debate, because we do not understand exactly what the outcome of this day might be. We were frightened when you invited the representative of the Government to speak, considering that by this invitation you considered all the amendments acceptable, exactly as they were written in the headings that were printed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We cannot fail to take account of the new fact that has taken place since President Centinario's statements. The latter has signed before the House the waiver of almost 5,000 amendments, leaving on the table something like 450 (I am referring to those that have been discussed in recent weeks), thus allowing the House to discuss the substance and content of the measure. How many times and on how many occasions, even in this House (I am thinking of the last debate that took place last week), have we asked for a real, serene, mature and respectful confrontation of the will of the citizens who manifest themselves in the Italian squares and that we speak in this Assembly about content? There was also an informal attempt - mentioned earlier by President Centinario - and the usual problem arose: who writes it first? Is the egg or the chicken born first? But today with the public act of President Centinario, the withdrawal of the amendments can only lead, in my opinion, to the withdrawal of the Marcucci amendment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC) and LN-Aut groups and Senator Giovanardi.]] The Marcucci amendment is the so-called kangaroo. Now, if I remember the definition correctly, the kangaroo is an animal that jumps, which means that jumping from one amendment to another, all the amendments that it touches fall. In essence, it is an "amendment" of concepts that ensures that all the amendments that have in their content a concept that is mentioned in the kangaroo amendment fall. So it is an atypical instrument, let us say, of the Parliamentary Assembly which serves to prevent obstructionism; which avoids obstructionism itself. The kangaroo, in itself, does not serve to better examine the content of the measure, but serves to bring the order back, to bring back the contents of the measure itself. Basically, the kangaroo amendment is the antechamber of confidence. That's what we're talking about. It is like saying: I do not intend to deal with thousands of votes on this measure, so I give the basic concepts, the concepts relating to the whole content of the measure and thus avoid a long debate. And that's exactly what we wanted to avoid. But for the sake of respect for the rules of democracy, Mr President - and I am addressing the press that is following us - at this point you cannot fail to play your role as a referee and guarantor of these rules in this House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC) and LN-Aut groups and Senator Di Biagio.]] In fact, it is no longer possible to imagine doing otherwise after the act, even courageous, carried out by President Centinario and the Group of the League who have withdrawn many amendments that legitimately (founding themselves in a position absolutely contrary to the measure) had tabled, in order to allow the examination of the contents to be addressed. At this point, I expect only one answer: to note that the amendments have been withdrawn in the quantity presented and that, being in a position to deal seriously with the measure, the Marcucci amendment is withdrawn. There can be no other answer. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]] There can be no other answer if we do not want to violate the rules of democracy. If you think, and I tell the gentlemen who are photographing us from above, to move forward, it means that you want to carry on with this measure without the country having the right to know what is the ability to deepen its contents. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]] I hope that what I hope will happen, Mr President. I hope that you, Salomonically, will not pass on to the views of the Government after our speeches. I hope that there will be a second thought, and I hope that those within the majority who are critical of the measure, now, at this moment, will not say yes, we will take note of the kangaroo and break it up. I don't want to talk about a kangaroo that makes so many kids who become so many kangaroos because then the outcome would be exactly the same. I hope, Mr President, that at this point you will take a decision and that, if you appreciate the circumstances - the rite formula used in these situations - you will convene a Conference of the Leaders or check in the framework of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure or in the seat that you consider appropriate, the possibility of addressing this issue, this issue, this measure, finally talking about the contents. If you were to force us to consider the Marcucci amendment acceptable and force us to vote, split or not, I do not care, the amendment itself, that would mean that in this House, in this House, you would endorse the violation of the rules of good democracy. We cannot accept that and I hope that does not happen. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC) and LN-Aut groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u54	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, my speech will be very brief and I regret to disturb the conciliation that is taking place on the sidelines between the President of the Democratic Party Group and some of the leaders most in view of the 5 Star Movement. And I do it for a very simple reason. I appeal to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement to make them understand something obvious: it makes no sense to promote rights by violating the law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That is the substance of the dilemma we are facing today in this House. We shared important battles together so that, on the subject of constitutional changes and electoral law, an illegitimate way of making politics would not prevail; and the kangaroo instrument goes exactly in this direction. I have appreciated, I have estimated, I have bowed before the hierarchy of human freedom manifested by the leaders of that political movement, because they have been, unique in this House, coherent and admirable. And I expect them to do the same today, because one thing is to have different views and one thing is that their votes are decisive for this measure to pass. And if he passes with their decisive vows, then he will have wanted history. But another thing is that it goes by violating the law, that is to say by allowing regulatory practices that shoot effective democracy and make it impossible, in fact, to contribute to a real amending process of its rules. As I expect you, Mr President, to take note of the political facts on this occasion. It is a political fact that has happened in this House. It's a political fact what the League did. And then it is said that in this House it is noted that there is a policy that plays face to face, that there is a policy that wants the good of the citizens [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] and does not stop at the Byzantineisms and the cunnings of part of the Democratic Party, which wants to avoid - attention - the challenge not of oppositions, but of members of its Group. He wants to avoid the challenge of members of the Democratic Party [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] , dragging the legislature, once again, into the torments of this party and making impossible a good way to make laws for the whole country, because instead we must make the laws that suffer the dilemmas and the internal tragedy of this political force. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Formigoni. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk. [[Senator Casini points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u57	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Senator Casini asked first, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. A Leader has asked to speak and I give him the floor. Then Senator Casini will speak. ZANDA (PD). If Senator Casini wants to talk, I'm in no hurry. Please, Senator Casini. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zanda, I'd be the one to give Senator Casini the floor. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] Please, Senator Casini, you have the right to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u58	Mr President, I feel obliged to put my views to the record in this sitting and I am grateful to President Zanda, because, contrary to my colleagues, I will not address you as much as the Group of the Party of European Socialists. I will not address you so much because I have experienced, from my own experience, the loneliness which, in such cases as this, requires the delicate role of President of this House. Of course, in this case, I don't envy you at all. I would like to say that I deeply respect all my colleagues, and in particular - if you will allow me - those who, through political and cultural approaches, are more distant from my experience. I do not even claim the truth, because, after spending so many years in Parliament, my maturity leads me to cultivate doubt and respect different opinions. And yet I have listened with great sharing to the speeches of Senators Schifani and Quagliariello. Parliament's decency and the social and civil importance of the rules we are voting on are mortified by the procedure being followed. What seems to me to be, unfortunately, obvious is that, in the next votes in this House, someone will be able to hope to win this issue, someone else will be able to succumb. But before we go into the matter, there is already a certain loser: Parliament, its role and its dignity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senators Mauro Mario and Bruni.]] As former President of the House, I defended the House from extreme obstructionist forms, often applying - in the Chamber of the House there is this possibility that I do not know if it exists in the Senate - the praise Iotti, which allowed to group similar amendments in a single vote on homogeneous subjects. Today, however, we are changing a procedure that has strong legitimacy profiles, completely degrades our role and prevents the comparison of merit. The announced readiness to withdraw the amendments of the North League puts the Democratic Party in front of its responsibilities. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Senator Zanda, it is to you that I want to address, because I know your institutional sensitivity and the consistency with which you have defended Parliament, your decency and your dignity in so many circumstances. It is the relative majority party that can choose today whether to guarantee a civil confrontation in merit or win a game by rigging the rules. I hope that the Democratic Party will choose the path of seriousness and coherence, allowing this House a free debate, because on this civil and social affair we all deserve to play a game of truth in freedom and transparency. I think that rigging the rules of the game is always deleterious, but today it certainly takes on an unacceptable social and civil value for Parliament and the Senate. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut and Senator Rossi Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u61	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I apologise to you, but I had no intention of giving the floor to President Casini. It was a parliamentary courtesy that I felt was correct. I have to say that this debate, before we know the opinions and even before the first amendment is examined, anticipates fundamental issues and puts us before general choices on which all our work will have to be articulated. I will therefore ask for a moment of courtesy and attention, because our reasoning must be framed on the work we are doing and on how we have come to this point. We are dealing with a measure that has seen since March 2013 a first draft law of the Democratic Party. We started talking about civil unions in March 2013 and in the Commission, on the following 18 June, we started examining the measure. It was a long and complex examination, with an even heated debate. The Commission has worked for a long time at 69 meetings. The final version of the text unifies various texts and the unifying proposal came from President Nitto Palma; no one claimed his proposal [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] In the last few months, there has been - and I can only call it this - a major obstructionist work in the Commission which has blocked its work for a few months. We have tried to move the situation and we have asked for it at the Conference of the Leaders repeatedly, as is certainly the case in the Minutes. Several times in this House we have asked for obstruction to cease and we have also explained the reasons why we thought it necessary for the Commission to complete its work. We thought and I still think that if a text arrives in this House, especially if it is so complex and delicate, without being fully instructed by the Commission, it will certainly be weaker and will make the work of this House much more difficult. I also thought - and I still think so - that working in this House without a rapporteur makes things much more complicated and the management of this House much more difficult. When the Conference of Leaders decided to bring the measure to the Chamber, Senator Giovanardi asked for a different timetable. The House voted and confirmed that the measure should come to the House. The group leader has dealt with it a second time, and also on that occasion Senator Giovanardi asked that the measure should not come to the Chamber and change the timetable. But for the second time, the House has decided that we should deal with the measure here. This morning we discussed it again, we had a meeting with some groups - there were both the majority and the opposition - and I had confirmation just now, in the debate I listened very carefully, that here we have - let us say this - radically different opinions. There are groups and parliamentarians who want this bill and think that Italy needs it; there are groups and senators who do not want this bill [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti]] and they legitimately intend to do everything in their regulatory capacity to prevent the Senate Assembly from discussing and approving it. I come to say - let me say it anonymously - that the Groups do not want the law on civil unions and think that, if it were to be approved, it must be the worst possible in order to be more easily attacked. This is part of our conversations. We want this law. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Then vote for it! ZANDA (PD). The Democratic Party wants this measure and wants to do so with the majority that Parliament will offer it, giving privilege certainly to the majority that supports the Government, but trying to approve it. And we want this law, Mr President, because we think that there is a fundamental reason for doing so. We believe that this is a law on rights, a law that recognises rights that have so far been taken away from a minority. And we think that the fact that there is a minority that has no rights that are due to it makes it all the more necessary and urgent that we debate and approve this law. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] We are defending the rights of a small minority, and that - I must say, Mr President - makes us strong in discussing it and trying to achieve it. But I must also say that there is a need that we have as senators. In the Senate, I haven't heard of this and allow me to present it to you. It is not to be assumed that we are being asked for a law by the Constitutional Court. And it is not to be taken under ambush that the European Union asks us to do so. I must say that I am uncomfortable with these demands, but I must also say that I am even more uncomfortable with the fact that more and more judges decide on this matter until adoption. They decide the judges for lack of a law and we must know that we have a duty that gives us the Constitution, and that we have asked to have at the time when we are candidates: we have asked to be legislators and we cannot fail to respond to the Constitutional Court and the European Union. We cannot, without shame, leave the judges - excuse the terms - the supplement for what we have to do and instead we do not. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have to pass this law and we have to do it quickly. Mr President, I say this in full consciousness and I am sorry that Senator Quagliariello, whom I know, esteemed, frequented and with whom I speak, did not take this into account in a speech which I heard and which was round but all political, linked to its location. His speech was a truly political one. I warned several times and did so humbly to represent a reality: we have before us the most complex, most delicate and most difficult measure since the beginning of the legislature and moreover - I add it for those who had not recorded it - is the only great law of initiative of the Senate, which does not come to us from the Government or from the House. It is our law, which starts from us and which, if we can approve, we will prove that this Senate can do what it is called to do. But if we don't approve of it, we'll prove that we're not capable of making the laws we have to make. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I have warned this House several times, and let me do so publicly here too: this measure comes, with the difficulties and complexities mentioned, to the House without the rapporteur; we know that the Government will return to this House; we know that about 150 secret voting requests have been submitted and we do not know how many will be admitted or how many will be granted; we know that all or most of the Groups will leave, in a substantial and delicate part of the measure, freedom of vote to their senators. You think that under these conditions and with this lead on the wings it is easy to manage an Assembly and finally to have an orderly and coherent measure [[Comments of Senator Volpi),]] a measure on which we can agree or not, but a coherent measure? I don't know if we're all clear about the difficulty of handling this. Of course, I understand: those who do not want the law must feed this situation, while those who want it must have different behaviors. And that is why, Mr President, we have met several times and have spoken, majority and opposition, seeking a way. The road provided for a number of necessary steps and one of them was the number of amendments. I understand that the North Lega announces the withdrawal of 4,500 amendments. We could not have had the ambition to bring out such a number, because we tabled 67 amendments and reduced them to 40. However, we needed only a few amendments. I think that this bill, if we look at its essential parts, with 200 or 300 amendments as a whole, can really be discussed on the substance and with 10, 20 or 30, and not 150, secret votes, we could really be quiet. [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] VOLPI (LN-Aut). Marcucci, you're a quaquaraquà! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, please. Let me talk. ZANDA (PD). Senator Volpi, I've never interrupted you. Let me talk. You will express your dissent, but - excuse me - let me say. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He will express it when he has the word. ZANDA (PD). This was the condition for which the measure - in my opinion - could become accessible and we could really, with seriousness and depth, discuss it on the merits and arrive at a good result. This result has not been achieved and an issue has arisen already at the beginning of the debate. The Assembly was interested in Senator Marcucci's amendment. All right: Senator Marcucci has tabled an amendment that he had and has the objective - I consider it very healthy - to delete the amendments - can I have a glass of water, please? - that it was possible to delete with an initial amendment. Mr President, the League has stated that it wants to withdraw 4,500 amendments. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). We picked them up! ZANDA (PD). In the 600 residues, more than 150 have been left with similar effects of the Marcucci amendment. The Democratic Party of levar is asked to return its amendment by a Group which has 200 times more numbers than we have. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] That is the numerical truth, but there is also one on the subject because there is a volcano on the basis of which numerous interventions have been set up this afternoon. The vulgate is that the Marcucci amendment eliminates the debate, in the sense that the Marcucci amendment is no longer discussed. I would like to reassure the House. I have examined our amendments and the Marcucci amendment removes half of them. And I imagine that is also true of the amendments of all the Groups and, however, we will vote on the law in all its articles, including Article 5. And if anyone asks for the secret vote, if he is supported and the President acknowledges it, we will vote for Article 5, on which there is concern, by secret vote and we will vote for it to remain in the field. An amendment cannot delete the article of a draft law. That's the problem. SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Sacconi, let the surgery finish. ZANDA (PD). Senator Sacconi, you have one opinion and I have another. But the two of us can stay in Parliament and... president. Senator Zanda, speak to the presidency and finish the speech. ZANDA (PD). I turn to you, Mr President, and I want to tell you that Senator Sacconi and I have different views on this measure that we can explain without interrupting and shouting at each other, because it seems to me that this should be done in Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] President, we haven't even started working. The measure can be examined in its entirety, without any impairment. Let us begin our work on the amendments. This preliminary debate was useful because it allowed everyone to have a clear view of the situation and the central part of our debate. However, I would like to ask all colleagues to begin examining the measure and the amendments, bearing in mind that we will examine it all. [[Comments of Senator Volpi]] We will be able to vote on all the articles in the way we consider it useful to do so. [[Applause from the PD and AL-A groups and Senators Buemi and Romans Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u64	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, Mr Zanda's speech has perhaps had the merit of broadening the debate, which began this afternoon, from the point where it was stranded and which, in the opinion of many, seemed to be exhausted. I am talking about the Marcucci amendment. Senator Zanda has only come back to the end on the Marcucci amendment but, with all due respect for the arguments put forward by my colleague, I would like to remind you that the debate was born because the Presidency was going to have the first vote on the Marcucci amendment. Mr Zanda will allow me not to go so far as to discuss the history of this provision in the Senate. In my humble memory, the Justice Commission was able to start voting on the amendments in August 2015, after the views of the Government and the Budget Commission, which are not small in importance on this matter. Then he continued his work in the second half of September and finally interrupted them, because a new measure arrived on 12 October. But the reconstruction of the ways, the times and the political ideas, all very respectable, that animate the tensions of the Assembly, leaves the time that it finds, if it is true what the former President of the Senate said, that I would like to thank, as senator today to the opposition, then in the majority, in a beautiful speech that I would have liked was approved by all those who were senators in the last legislature, regardless of their positions. Senator Schifani has bypassed, while showing full control, the arguments of the scientific community around amendments of the kind presented by Senator Marcucci. But Senator Schifani recalled that the Senate Assembly - I remind my colleague Zanda - has a legal freedom and is in an amending phase, not in a drafting phase. So, how do you conculcate this right on this House and on the individual senators, putting an amendment like Senator Marcucci's to the whole thing? Mr Esposito's amendment, tabled when we were in the process of reforming the electoral law, has not necessarily been mentioned, Mr President. On that amendment, however, opinions were freely expressed, including within the Groups. That amendment did not preclude the right of the Senate to vote on other points of that law, while today we are faced with the Marcucci amendment, which has no amending scope, and which is not of limited amending scope. The same people who are in favour of your vote have, in fact, justified it since last Thursday, and even expressed it as an amendment against the Chaldero kangaroo. And when today, at 4.30 p.m., the colleagues of the League announced that their 4 500-year-old round of amendments no longer exists, what do you do with Marcucci's kangaroo? Mr Zanda says that the Democratic Party must be left with the quadruple or the quintuple of the League's amendments, which is opposition, but - what is worse - it must also be left with the kangaroo first, which he then requires to vote until Article 5. No, that's not true. This is a scam. I cannot infer that President Zanda has not read the text of the Marcucci amendment. If the Marcucci amendment is voted on, and first of all with respect to Zanda's arguments, there is the utmost guarantee that the law is a piece of crap, even with respect to an original text that was not the best in this world. Above all, Mr President, allow me to reflect on this, which I also take from Mr Schifani's speech. Our Rules of Procedure clearly state in Rule 102 that the deleterious amendments must be voted on first - and we agree - according to an order for which we are voting starting with those who move away from the text and then moving on to the nearest ones. How, then, is it possible that the first of all is the Marcucci amendment, which is certainly not the farthest one, but it is also - they have explained it to us on Thursday - the nearest one, and in this very case it has even more decisive effects than an amendment by my colleague Giovanardi that I call the big Greek marriage, that of the contract? What is the point, then, of the priority of voting immediately, without even listening - with much elegance, a former president like Senator Schifani asked for a summons and an opinion of the Board for the Rules of Procedure - the amendment of Senator Marcucci? What's the point of depriving others of their right to subemend him? There's something obstructive. Obstructionism may be reprehensible, but equally reprehensible is obstructionism to a obstructionism that is no longer there. I believe that in the face of Mr Calderoli's gesture, which I admired much more than his digital custom - I am too fond of the fountain pen; he still loves me! - if the House and you, Mr President, were to leave without following up the gesture of disinterested parliamentaryism that the colleagues of the League made by handing over those 4,500 amendments; if one tomorrow we read in our work that at 16.30 we renounce the 4,500 amendments of the League and at 18.30 we vote first of all on Marcucci's premissive amendment, we would certainly have shown contempt for scientific culture. Just an official of the Senate, a very valiant lawyer, Professor Ciarro, wrote on the review of constitutionalists a beautiful article about the Esposito amendment, with much respect for the prerogatives of the Parliament, which is entitled "The omnibus premissive amendment ": a new way of lawmaking? In that article we mention, in addition to my colleague Mr Lo Moro, who has already mentioned Schifani, the well-thought-out views of Ferrara, who said that the Esposito amendment would result in a sort of delegation from Parliament to legislate on everything. But there is something even more beautiful and convincing, President. At one point Ciaurro quotes a great predecessor of his, a 19th-century English philosopher, Jeremiah Bentham - as well as a great philosopher of science - was a parliamentary official - and says that the premissive amendments are a way of trampled on his doctrines. So, I believe that putting the Marcucci amendment to the vote immediately, regardless of what Mr Schifani asked for with great urbanity and civilization, would be a way of trampled on ourselves. [[Applause from the CoR and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u67	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, to tell the truth, I did not mean to speak but, having had the honour of a quote from Senator Zanda, I was forced to make certain clarifications. I would like to make it clear that the facts are real. It is true that this measure has been dealt with in the Commission for about two years. It is true that in the Commission a series of draft laws were held in a unified text which, as is the practice, was voted by the members of the Commission itself. However, it is also true - as Senators Quagliariello and Giovanardi say or so - that the draft law Cirinna, the one that has come to this House, has not been dealt with in the Commission, in the sense that the report has been carried out by the rapporteur and, after that, there has been no debate. Nor can it be said that the Cirinna bill was or is a text totally comparable to the unified text, because, if this is true in part, it is certainly not true because of one of the most relevant circumstances of this bill: in the unified text Cirinna it was established that the general rules on adoption did not apply to the members of civil unions, essentially saying - not saying it - that the provision of Article 44 of Law No 184 of 1983 on special adoption, with particular reference to letters (a) and (b) applied. In the Cirinna bill, what has arrived in the Chamber, on the other hand, there is a change of considerable importance, because it is said, in express terms, that the letter (b) of Article 44 is amended: the partner of the civil union is immediately qualified to adopt the son, even adoptive. So things have gone this way and I would like everyone to keep that in mind and, possibly, for the future, not to involve themselves in responsibilities that are not theirs or in reconstructions of the facts that do not belong to me. I would also like to add a few things on this occasion. The first: Senator Zanda, it is not true that we do not want a law on civil unions in this House. [[Applause from Senators Formigoni and Rizzotti]] The Forza Italia Group is absolutely in agreement in promoting a law that regulates this type of cohabitation. What some people do not want in this House is a law that violates exactly that Constitution and that sentence of the Constitutional Court that Senator Zanda has also intended to recall; in other words, we do not want a law that, under the name of John, makes marriage equal to a civil union. This is the difference that exists between sponsors of the Cirinna bill and sponsors are not. As, of course, there are some people in this House who are not particularly in favour of extending Article 44 (b) of the abovementioned Law 183 to civil unions, i.e. essentially to the adoption of the other partner's son, even the adoptive one. And, since, once a senator of the 5 Star Movement came, with the grace that is customary, to ask me where the surrogate motherhood is written, let me add that the son also adoptive of the partner in civil unions is the son had from a previous marriage or from a previous history, or resorting to surrogate motherhood, as well as adoption, and, in the case of homosexual female couples, to the legitimate practice of heterologous fertilization. Mr President, I am not convinced - I would be grateful if you would reflect on this - that another part of what President Zanda has said is no less important, that he clearly reveals his understanding and, above all, if I may (I would not wish to have misinterpreted) a certain distrust of those who conduct the work of this House. I am referring to a distrust that I clearly cannot borrow - it would be foolish of me - from the fact that you give the floor to Senator Zanda, who, in turn, gives it to Senator Casini. Why do I say that? When President Zanda says that there are 500 amendments from the North League and 60 amendments from the Democratic Party, as well as 100 requests for secret voting. This is a perfectly normal situation in Parliament's logic, but President Zanda adds that it is difficult to manage this House. I believe that President Zanda should have greater confidence in his capacity, Mr President, and that, in any case, if there are difficulties in managing this House (for example, because the measure came without a rapporteur or because the Government does not, at least in principle, express the opinion), these cannot be overcome through a compression of the debate and the use of a pitfall whatever a premissive amendment. If that is the purpose - and this is a stated aim of President Zanda - it is inevitable that the Marcucci amendment should stand by criticism and, in particular, make it clear that it is simply a clever instrument to prevent the debate in this House on an important and sensitive subject which concerns not only the granting of civil rights, but also the question whether in our society that Constitution, which is often agitated as the emblem under which we all have to move, must still be respected either under Article 29 or not. What is at stake in this debate, whatever the outcome, is the structuring of a society. The measure under consideration is destined to have a huge social impact and I believe it is legitimate to allow all political forces, in times and in ways that do not weigh down the debate, to express individual positions in front of the country. Finally, Mr President, precisely because of the delicacy of the matter, I would be grateful if you could inform us of the preclusive effects of the adoption of the Marcucci amendment. I do not want to distract or disturb you at this time, but I would like to understand how many and what amendments would jump. Finally, I should like to know something else: what if, once the Marcucci amendment has been adopted (which states that the partner can adopt the other partner's adoptive son) then Article 5 of the bill is rejected? I mean, what's the point of that rule? After we have voted on the Marcucci amendment, will we be free in the vote on Article 5 or will we be obliged to approve it? And again, Mr President, after voting on the Marcucci amendment, which states in paragraph 2 (a) that civil union is constituted by a declaration to the civil state officer, we will be free to vote on Article 2 which adds: "in the presence of two witnesses" in the same way as marriage? I shall open and close a parenthesis, Mr President: I have listened carefully to your explanatory statement to reject the secret vote on individual articles. You basically said that we are talking about social formations. Yeah, that's right. You too, I must tell you the truth, in quoting the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2010 did not value the fact that in that judgment it was said that discipline should be there but could not certainly be comparable to marriage. But when the discipline of marriage extends to other institutions, are you sure that the relative vote is not assisted by the healing of Article 29? In addition, Mr President, let me understand something else because I too am using it for the debate if there is ever a debate. In the Marcucci amendment we read that in the case of an age correction of sex marriage is automatically transformed into a civil union; but - excuse me - and if there were because of the hypothesis of the amendments (I believe I have one but surely the Senator Caliendo) that add the words "before the consent of the people"? Are these amendments passing through or not passing through? I mean, let's forget about the maximum systems now, but because in this amendment, in my humble opinion, there are technical errors, I want to know whether or not corrective technical amendments will be voted on. So, Mr President, I would be grateful if you would inform us of the extension of the foreclosures. For the rest, I would just like to say one thing to the House: we had the Esposito amendment, then we had the Cociancich amendment and now we have the Marcucci amendment. I understand that the young age induces the destruction of the old, but the young age, at times, also induces to forms of defiance of which these cunning kangaroos are a great manifestation. To you senators, who are obviously not so young just because of being senators, I would like to say that these contemptuousnesses will lead to destruction but in this case it will be the beginning of the dismantling of democracy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u70	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, God knows how much I care and care about this bill and these rights; I say this for the Catholics, everyone else knows this because they have seen it in this House and in the Commission in two years of work. When we heard, because this is the situation we are in today, that the New Right Centre was leaving with an appeal to the Council because this bill had not finished its work in the Commission we were very ill, considering that this majority, including these gentlemen you see on my left and on my right, has incardinated the electoral law without finishing the work in the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] With your permission, President, they have incardinated constitutional reforms after a pitiful job, without a rapporteur, and you have managed to take them home. I have heard that there were 5,000 amendments by the League, which usually plays this game, that is, throw a million and then withdraw them - who knows why - never in the interest of the measures, but of other agreements, perhaps this time the electoral law. I have therefore heard that all this responsibility was on our shoulders, on the shoulders of the 5 Star Movement, the only one who has behaved so far in a responsible manner on this bill. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , asking the members, with a thousand difficulties. You have succeeded - I have already said this in my speech in general discussion, but you were not all there, so I repeat - to disintegrate a people and terrorize them, with the history of stepchild adoption, etc. You have managed to create a mess and to break this Parliament, which has never been able to discuss this amendment in the Commission on the subject, for as many as 73 sessions - I correct the number - to listen to things that these gentlemen are hallucinating about. Today we are debating, because first there are 5,000 amendments and then they are withdrawn, because perhaps so we can have a proper debate in this House. Now a kangaroo has appeared, with which you have regulated and governed this nation; a kangaroo of 5,000 amendments has appeared. What am I gonna do? I look at my group and say that, well, we live in a jungle, because this is a jungle, because the rules, dear President, have not always been the same and you remember. Citizenship income was incardinated in the Commission I work only because I got angry and I made the devil four in that room where we meet. We have often obtained things by forcing them, because you have never allowed us to respect the rules. When I found myself in front of this, I told my parents: well, gentlemen, if you would find yourself, if we found ourselves... we found ourselves, sorry. (Comments from the PD Group). It's hard for me... I beg the reporters not to play on my conjunctives. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]] If we were to decide the freedom of a people by a small trick, by an unconstitutional and undemocratic artifice like a kangaroo, I would think about it, because it is good for the country. I know that outside the people, even those who are in the stands, the ones you hunt when they may give Giovanardi a warm signal, they too have eyes on us and on me, that I put my face on it. But when I hear that we are going down to 500 amendments, when I hear that President Zanda is afraid of secret votes, when during a constitutional reform the secret votes have been planed and you have only one standing. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussini, Simeoni and Bignami]] Then you cannot tell me, as the Undersecretary Scalfarotto did, that you are in our hands. This is serious, this is a Parliament that takes no responsibility! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]] This is a Parliament that plays on people's faces and continues to do so today. So I am in a position to say to you: let us move forward with 500 amendments, because we are there. Clearly, Mr President! Take on your responsibilities once and for all in front of the country! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Tell the people who wait for these rights: "Frocio, you won't have them!" Or tell him: "You are a citizen like me, in a clear way. I don't feel like forcing my group, because I wouldn't even have the power. As I have already told you in the examination of constitutional reforms, you are setting up a dictatorial system and we hope it will not fall into my hands, because the 5 Star Movement is more democratic than I would probably use it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But I cannot ask my group to betray the opportunity to debate, with 500 amendments. Are you afraid of 200 amendments to be voted by secret ballot? What's there to be afraid of? Here's the vote, there's the vote. Let's vote on this law! That's what I've always asked you. Let's vote on it. If it really ends up being our fault, I'll take responsibility for it. [[Comments from the M5S Group),]] But the citizens outside will know very well that this is not the case! [[Applause from the M5S, Mixed Groups and Senators Bignami and Pepe. Congratulations. Comments of Senator Esposito Stefano]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Let's vote! Let's vote!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u72	You have the right to do so. Then, if there are other requests for action, the debate cannot be reopened.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u73	MARAN (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the political content, which seems to me to be very important. Since the beginning of the 1990s, since homosexuality was still illegal in many parts of the world, including some countries that later joined the European Union, Europe has started a process of recognition of gay and lesbian rights, which in two decades has led to recognition... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Maran, I'm sorry, but your parent spoke. Only those who have not spoken will speak, otherwise we cannot finish the debate. Thank you for your time. FACTORS (M5S). Let's vote. Let's vote!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u76	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I would first like to point out that my Group has no difficulty in saying that our vote on this measure which recognises the rights of a minority in our country is in favour, so Senator Airola knows that there are those who have that courage that he has called for and we have it. However, Mr President, you must allow me for a moment to undress my parliamentary robes in order to wear those of the lawyer. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u77	Let me talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u78	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, the title of Senator Marcucci's amendment 01.6000 is as follows: This law regulates the introduction into the legal order of the institution of civil union between persons of the same sex (...) and also contains provisions on actual coexistence. I ask a question to Senator Zanda and to all those who chew right and who have a knowledge of the study to the norm. If Senator Marcucci's amendment 01.6000 is adopted, which is nothing more than the affirmation of a principle that should be regulated by successive provisions and if, as President Zanda says, we then move on to the vote of Article 5 and this, by hypothesis, is rejected (i.e. it is not approved), we will find ourselves with a law (and that is why before I said that I wear the role of the lawyer) which affirms a principle, but then does not regulate it. I would therefore like to ask you to consider what may be the consequence of the adoption of amendment 01.6000 and the rejection of Article 5 of the draft law. Then how are we gonna find each other? What is the product that will come out of this House? From a cultural point of view, two wills emerge: the first, evident, shows that it wants the measure also in the matter of adoptions; the other, secret, a different will. Let me then suggest to Senator Zanda and the other Group Leaders - including the League - that we make a thought so that we can offer that minority of Italians a measure that does not lend itself to the most disparate interpretations of the jurisprudence, thus frustrating the understanding of this Parliament to give guarantees and rights to the minority I was talking about. Pick up my suggestion and correct this dystonia, because it is undoubtedly disonic a provision of law that affirms a principle and then does not regulate it. It is for these reasons that I insist that a reflection be made. This could be a concrete case which can be verified: we approve the principle of Senator Marcucci's amendment and we reject the regulation of Article 5. This could happen; then I wonder what we would produce as legislators. Even in terms of our dignity, I wonder if we could be proud of such an articulated measure. For this reason, I insist, but always remembering that it is so strong for us the need to recognize the rights of minorities that, even in the face of these distonies, our vote will not fail to be in favour of the bill, however it is, even if in this case it is criticized from the purely technical point of view, from the point of view of the regulatory technique.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u81	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on a matter of fairness. Mr Zanda said that, if Senator Marcucci's amendment had been adopted, then perhaps we would have gone to the vote on Article 5 on stepchild adoption by secret vote, but let me correct it because that is not the case: by voting on Senator Marcucci's amendment, by voting on the principle, so many articles and amendments would be precluded. It is therefore clear that those who wish to exercise freedom of conscience on other points would also be excluded from speaking on individual points once Senator Marcucci's amendment was adopted. [[Applause from Senator Formigoni. Senator Maran points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u82	This, however, reopens the debate. Senator Maran, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u83	Mr President, we believe that calling into question the admissibility and location of Senator Marcucci's amendment is, for the most part, a reflection of positions of merit, as was heard a moment ago by the 5 Star Movement, because for a long time everyone has tended to say that the opinions he does not share would not only be wrong, but unconstitutional or even inadmissible. I come to the political question, which is before everyone's eyes. As I said just now, since the beginning of the 1990s, when homosexuality was illegal in most parts of the world, Europe has started a process of recognition of gay and lesbian rights, which in twenty years has led to the recognition of unions, marriages and adoptions in almost all the countries of the European Union, except those of recent accession. There has been a sort of progressive contagion, which has meant that, slowly over these years, the rights of gays and lesbians have been recognized in an increasing number of countries. This work of contagion has obviously been uneven in times and ways, especially with regard to the political response - this is the node - which, in our country, has been marked by strong resistance. In the vast majority of cases - the 5,000 amendments of the North League are enough - the opposition to the Cirinna law has nothing to do with stepchild adoption. Just think that the first Family Day, which brought many more people to the streets than it was a few weeks ago, was called against a very moderate bill that did not include stepchild adoption. The point is that for a significant part, perhaps, of Italian public opinion and its political representatives the problem is not stepchild adoption, it is homosexual people, their existence first and therefore their legitimate demand for equal rights in the face of the equality of duties they are already subject to. If politics in our country does not succeed in playing that courageous and far-sighted leadership role that it should have, but tends to react slowly and strong resistances, opening a gap between politics and society is for this reason. If Italy finds itself in the paradox of having a level of openness and social awareness equal to or close to that of the most advanced countries, such as France, England and Germany, but a level of political-institutional response equal to Poland and Hungary is for this reason. We take note that today we had the opportunity to take a step forward and the 5 Star Movement has chosen to turn its head on the other side! [[Applause from the PD Group]] We believe, Mr President, that the adoption of the law on civil unions, which has been following its process tirelessly, as has been said, since July 2013, is no longer possible, that it is now possible to bring it to completion, in the knowledge that it is not only necessary to adapt to European standards, but also to build a society in which people are free to express themselves and to carry out their own life plan. It serves to build a freer and happier society; this is what we wanted to do and what we hoped the 5 Star Movement wanted to compete with us to achieve. We have noted that it has changed its mind and it is a political choice that we can measure. [[Comments from the M5S group]] There is an old saying attributed to Bertold Brecht, which reads: When hypocrisy begins to be of bad quality, it is time to start telling the truth. We hope that this will be the occasion to squaderare under the eyes of the Italians what is the truth of the choice of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u86	[[Brusio.]] Quiet, please. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, since Senator Zanda has had the ability to quote me twice as much as I did in the Commission before and in the House after, about the time of this procedure which will have reflected in the next few days on the work of this House, I recall that already in the last parliamentary term - because we want a law governing rights and removing discrimination - I have presented a bill entitled "contracts of solidarity and coexistence" which unfortunately did not have any luck in the Commission. If it had been accepted, as the Greek model of December, we would already have the law in force for a year! [[Comments from Senators Santangelo, Council and Candiani.]] After that, I recall that 51 senators have appealed for conflict of attribution because - Senator Zanda, only this, for intellectual honesty - the bill Cirinna was discussed the first week of August and the first two weeks of September, because only then was it possible to discuss the amendments, and we were at a third of the work when we were told to stop and another bill was presented, a different measure, which is the one to the attention of this House, on which I think it is right and appropriate, as far as possible, there is a serious confrontation, in the next few days, here!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u89	[[Brusio.]] Everyone has the right to intervene. LO MORO (PD). Mr President, someone is impatient but will have to be patient. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, sir. LO MORO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I am speaking after Senator Airola has spoken, because he has not left me indifferent and he cannot leave this House indifferent. I would like to say to him and to my colleagues that it is not good when we discuss citizens' rights that we are getting to grips with the procedures - which, by the way, I like them so little. It is not good to determine how many amendments we needed and whether it was better than 5,000 or 500, whether it was better for the kangaroo amendment of the PD or for the amendments of the League, which tabled many more. We're missing an opportunity, I don't like that a group that defines itself free from ties, like that of the 5 Star Movement, and that seemed passionate about this topic... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u90	Quiet! Let's talk, we've given everyone a chance to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u91	LO MORO (PD). Sorry, ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak and, of course, I am from the PD Group but I am speaking on my behalf and from those who share to tell you that you are not taking responsibility at the moment, you are fleeing responsibility! VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Let's vote! Let's vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. These stadium choirs are not allowed. I beg the Senators Quaestors and the Leaders to intervene. LO MORO (PD). Who came to give you a hand after your intervention? Not the people who want this law to go through with it. You've put yourself in the hands of those who want to bring this law down! [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have done wrong because, when you are at a crossroads of this kind, you do not do it; you do not hide behind the procedures. When it comes to obstructionism, I get the creeps. I've never been obstructive in my life. [[Comments from LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Di Maggio]] I did not even vote for the kangaroo amendment by Italicum, but there are these practices and there is no hiding. At this time, it was up to me and you to have the responsibility of guaranteeing rights to too many people who do not have them and who have hostile enemies in this House in all the parliamentary groups. Think about it. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Montevecchi (M5S). Ask them why they don't vote. What do you want from us? LO MORO (PD). I think it's time for responsibility. Don't always let the judiciary intervene. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Let me finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u92	Let the surgery finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u93	LO MORO (PD). We're missing a chance. I was here; I have never moved and I have seen too many smiling people - surely you suffering - for the escape of responsibility that we recorded with your intervention. This evening you have escaped the responsibility of saying 'yes' with an artifice that others have forced us to do in order to recognize rights to citizens who must have friends and not enemies in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group. The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display signs bearing the inscription "Vote".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u94	I'm begging the quaestors to step in and pick up the cartels.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u97	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I have heard speeches in this House from mouths that said exactly the opposite not many months ago. I didn't think the bodies - when they say they pass - would pass so fast. These people had been warned that violence against democracy came back, but I didn't think it would happen that fast. Feel the senators of the New Right Centre defending themselves by declaring the injustice of a kangaroo amendment when they have passed over, without any scrupulousness, the possibility for the minority to discuss such an important issue as constitutional reforms seem to me to be the ultimate paradox. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senators Bignami, Bonfrisco, Molinari and Pepe.]] To defend the kangaroo amendment once again with the same instrumental arguments and with the heart and passion for rights, when we actually see once again the performance of makeup, it seems really grotesque to me. Senator Lo Moro and Senator Maran, it really seems to me that a very simple content has been lost in sight here: we have an amendment that was curiously numbered 01.6000 and that is the first. This amendment adds absolutely nothing to the text of this law. Then let's look at each other's faces. This amendment is a trick that is being used, as has happened at other times, because we cannot compare it with the presuppositions of parliamentary democracy. I am not afraid of parliamentary democracy and I wonder why others should have it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] I'm not afraid of the vote. If we had started voting on the amendments instead of spending all this time talking about this amendment, we would probably have voted on several hundred amendments at this point. I find it really disgusting to see the indifference with which the same tools are now used to defend now to attack. The country, rightly at this point, also asks the sense of the elections and to vote for representatives who, however, are able to change their speeches according to the opportunity. All we have heard today in this House is really the lowest point we have reached throughout the parliamentary term: the most obvious manifestation that there is no search for a truth, but only an instrumental use of words. Therefore, I say to all my colleagues, not only to those of the Democratic Party or of the 5 Star Movement but to all, that the only truth lies in the Regulations, in the Constitution, in the duty to express one's vote. Everything else is trick, and everything else is deception. Who, like homosexuals, knows what it means to defend the rights of a minority, cannot fail to understand that the end, when it comes to rights, does not justify the means. Because the maximum of the end that justifies the means is a maximum by which any principle of equality, freedom and brotherhood can be sunk down: all those principles that the very meaning of a democratic Republic puts in place. [[Applause from Senators Cotti and Malan.]] As a result, I do not lend myself to this game and refuse to vote for a trick. I refuse, because I am ready to be here all day and even at night, on Saturday and Sunday, to vote in line all the amendments with a clear vote, just as we should have the courage to do. In particular, I urge my colleagues in the Democratic Party not to hide behind the need to adopt a law quickly. Do not hide, because the right path is to have courage in what you are and in what you believe in. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Giovanardi and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u100	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I believe that it is absolutely necessary in this House to try to recover some kind of reasonableness, but in the clarity of the positions. In fact, we cannot hide that it has been months, Mr President, and you are witnessing this, that, before the Commission, but also in this House, we have, on several occasions, called for the draft law on civil unions to be included in the timetable at last. In recent months there have clearly been very different positions, but they are now clear to the public as well. There are those who think the time has come in this country to finally recognize the rights to those who do not have them and therefore to recognize what the judges (not to mention, of course, the European Court of Justice), as we have said several times, constantly repeat us: assume the responsibility of making the law and eliminating discrimination. We've already told each other, and I'm not here to tell you what this means. It means finally giving this country the opportunity to prove that it is a civilised country. The debate has taken up public opinion, and it is right that it should be so: it has been discussed and is being discussed, but one thing we need to be clear about. The League has clearly stated that it does not agree and that it will hinder the law, because it does not want it to be approved. Then, maybe, they'll also have a referendum. There are also many others, including us who for years have been calling for a step forward at last - as you know, this was not, of course, the text we wanted; we wanted it more advanced - who had given their willingness to finally take this step towards the recognition of rights and the elimination of discrimination against children and the weakest. The positions are clear. I say this fraternally to us first: it is clear that this House has been confronted for two and a half years with procedures which, as you know, Mr President, we have certainly not supported; indeed, we have challenged them. I am thinking of President Casini, who is on the phone, who spoke of Parliament's dignity: I would have liked to hear you, Mr Casini, when it was necessary to defend Parliament's dignity in the face of the reform of the law. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and LN-Aut and the Senators Bonfrisco and Minzolini]] Not to mention Senator Schifani, but also Quagliariello himself, who has now changed his mind but who at first was also a constituent father. We had lessons, forcings, and then invented, in addition to the very hard kangaroo procedure, the premissive amendment. I understand perfectly, therefore - I say this to the friends of the 5 Star Movement - the suffering of those who are for rights and want the law finally to be done, but at the same time does not want them once again to tear away from the procedural point of view. I hope, Mr President, that everything that is happening today will serve as a lesson for the future; that it will help to restore an orderly way of approving the laws. Of course, I would like to point out to everyone that when it came to constitutional reform, the law expressly provided for normal procedures to be followed. This is another case, always serious. I repeat, I understand the pain; we live it in the same way, because we must weigh at this moment if the need to speed up the process is prevalent in order to finally give the country the law that has been expected for many years or continue with a different step. Precisely because there is this complexity, President, with the respect of all - and I hope that the friends of the Democratic Party too will serve for the future, precisely with reference to the procedures - I ask you and ask this House - at this moment the souls are very warmed up; everyone is obviously fighting even with the reflections he has expressed - to try to restore a climate of serenity. For this reason, I ask you frankly, if other Members agree with me, to suspend the work, not to come to the vote at this time. [[Comments from AP Groups (NCD-UDC), FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut and M5S.]] ENDRIZZI (M5S). Get the fuck out of here! DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I once again appeal to be reasonable and to reflect, because I believe that with a calm reflection of a few hours maybe we will finally be able to resume the main road to bring home the law on the rights of homosexual couples and against discrimination. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u101	Compared to Senator De Petris' request for suspension...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u102	WOMAN (M5S). No, no! [[Protests from AP Groups (NCD-UDC), FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut and M5S.]] SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). It was all prepared! SANTANGELO (M5S). What do you say? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Nothing is prepared. SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Now we vote. Stop! COURSE FROM OPPOSITION BANKS. Vote! vote! [[Senators Candiani and Crosio display signs bearing the inscription "Voto". Comments of Senators Borioli and Cardinals]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u103	Let's try to recover the procedures.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u106	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, since there is no unanimity, because my Group is against the postponement, I would ask the House to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u107	I put to the vote the proposal to suspend the examination of the bill in title, made by Senator De Petris. Given the uncertain outcome of the vote, I have the counter-test.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u110	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we very much appreciated your clarification at the beginning of the sitting because we believe that the sly people inside the Senate should not be here. In order to apply immediately what you have said, I would ask you to remove the cards for two reasons. One is what you have pointed out, namely to check the presence for administrative purposes: there are sly people who feed their diary even though they are not in the Chamber. The other is that this can also affect the votes. There is the card of the former president of the Republic of Naples and please have it extracted. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and CoR Groups]] The smart guys are the ones who've been here for 60 years. Get the smart guys out of the Senate! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u111	Please hand over the card to the secretary senators. I invite everyone to stand in their seats and invite the Secretary Senators to check that there are no cards without senators. VOICES FROM THE AP GROUP (NCD-UDC). Come on! Let's vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Wait a minute, we've been asked for a check-up. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. [[Applause from Senator Puppato. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] WOMAN (M5S). Sold! You're sold too! (Exchange of apostrophes between the Senators of the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators of the M5S Group). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I therefore refer you to the follow-up to the examination of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u112	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-578.ana.u113	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 17 February, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.14 p.m.
