ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 27 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.32).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u4	I would like to inform you that, as already communicated to the parliamentary groups on the short lines, during tomorrow's Question Time session, at 4 p.m., the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Policy, Dr Maurizio Martina, will answer questions on the following topics: prospects for the cereals and fruit and vegetables sectors, precision agriculture and the introduction of technological innovation tools.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u5	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the night between Monday and Tuesday Tina Anselmi left us, a leading political figure in Italian history in the post-war period, partisan, trade unionist and teacher. Tina Anselmi was born in Castelfranco Veneto in 1927 in a family of Catholic tradition and socialist ideas. In September 1944, she was forced by the German occupiers, together with other students, to attend the execution for reprisal of thirty-one prisoners in Bassano del Grappa. This traumatic episode prompts her to participate actively in the Resistance and, under the name of the battle of "Gabriella," becomes the relay of the brigade Cesare Battisti, commanded by Gino Sartor, and then to the Venetian regional command of the Corps volunteers of freedom. In December 1944, Tina Anselmi enrolled in Christian Democracy, starting her political activity. After the war he graduated in letters from the Catholic Church of Milan and became an elementary teacher. During the same period he also undertook trade union activity within the CGIL and, subsequently, the CISL, taking over management positions in the textile union, from 1945 to 1948, and in that of primary teachers, from 1948 to 1955. She also holds national positions in the Youth Movement of Christian Democracy from 1958 to 1964, the year in which she is also elected vice president of the European Women's Union. In 1959 he joined the National Council of Christian Democracy, a party on whose lists he was elected to the Chamber of Deputies for the first time in 1968, and then was continuously re-elected for six legislatures, until the election of 1987, always in the district of Venice. Inside the Christian Democracy and for Veneto it represented a constant sting against any weakening of the ethical sense, witness and political action. It was an uncomfortable and exemplary character, out of the logic of rope and co-opting. During the exercise of his parliamentary mandate he deals in particular with labour and health policy issues, as well as social issues focused on the role of the family and women, promoting the adoption of Law No 903 of 1977 on equal treatment for men and women in the field of employment. After serving as Undersecretary, in July 1976 she was appointed Minister of Labour and Social Security in the Third Government Andreotti, the first woman Minister in Italian history. Subsequently, from March 1978 to August 1979, he held the position of Minister of Health in the fourth and fifth Andreotti Governments, contributing significantly to the birth of the National Health Service, which allowed all citizens access to basic health care. In 1981, during the 8th legislature, she was appointed President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the Masonic Lodge P2 - a body strongly desired by the then President of the Chamber of Deputies Nilde Iotti - and she carried out this task in an exemplary manner also in the next parliamentary term, helping, through the final report, to shed light on one of the most disturbing - and still not entirely clarified - pages of republican history. Tina Anselmi had the courage, the strength, the intelligence to assume the task of unraveling plots, interweavings, affairs that polluted and undermined the foundations of the Republic and democracy, hiding illegal relations and contrary to constitutional values; those values for which, since he was very young, he had struggled and which he never stopped defending with his head high. Antifascism, Constitution, democracy: these are the pillars of his thought and vision for the country. Next Friday I will go to the funerals of Tina Anselmi, in Castelfranco Veneto, where I will represent the unanimous condolence and homage of the Senate to a truly extraordinary political figure: a woman who has served the Republic in many fringes of the history of our country and who leaves in us a deep void. Tina Anselmi has given us the shining testimony of a civil commitment and an ethical passion, which will represent an ever-present model for republican institutions, for all citizens, especially for the younger generations, to whom it will be up to us to ideally collect the witness of the relay "Gabriella." I call on the House to observe one minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]] I shall briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 4.40 p.m. and resumed at 4 49 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u6	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2233 and 2229. She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us, which has been adopted with amendments by the 11th Commission and linked to public finance, it offers itself as a new basic text for an organic discipline of self-employment and to facilitate the flexible articulation of paid work in relation to time and place of work. The basic premise on which the measure is based is known. Over time, in fact, due to economic development and technological innovation... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I cannot speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u8	Colleagues, we've resumed our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u9	RICHIUTI (PD). As I was saying, over time, in fact, because of economic development and technological innovation, the nature of subordination has gradually changed, a principle on which the specialty of labour law has always held. However, the policies carried out since the 1990s have not been able to adequately address the serious problems of the labour market, so that - as Romano Prodi recently pointed out - the forecast of the growth figure of less than 1% still condemns Italy to remain in the rear platoon compared to the major economies of the European Union. The ISTAT photographed the extent of the economic crisis that struck our country from 2007 to 2015 with some data: the employees lost in the crisis amounted to 1,618,000 units of work and GDP fell sharply by 8.3 percent, i.e. 140 billion euros. Finally, we are witnessing a gigantic process of emigration of graduates with high professional qualifications of 100,000, of which a third with less than thirty-five years: a real escape of the best talents of our country, with a consequent competitive backwardness of Italy, and respect not only to Germany, but also to the countries of the Eastern bloc, members of the German production network. If these are the data, in the face of an explosion of unprecedented precariousness known in recent years, we wonder whether the employment policies promoted by the Government can be considered sufficient to reverse the structural character of the economic crisis from which we struggle to get out. It is clear, in fact, that the bill that the Assembly is now debating looks exactly like a completion of the jobs act and, therefore, must be judged in a strictly unified dimension. I would like to say at once that the new rules on self-employment contained in the measure, while laying down certain protection profiles which have so far been ignored, do not appear to be exhaustive, because the central problem of adequate compensation for the performance of the work or service by the provider does not seem to be solved at all. Nor does it appear to be easy in this text to find a precise definition of the nature of continuity, which in labour law is commonly considered to be the element that is worth more than any other to differentiate the relationships parasubordinate from self-employment. Whereas the performance of work is regarded in its unitity as instant performance, vice versa, the parasubordination includes all the cases of atypical works contracts, as regards periodic services. But in this way, if the practical way of implementing employment relationships becomes blurred, there is not only the risk of an abstract problem of legal qualification. Unfortunately, there is a serious risk that the coordinated and continuous collaborations, always the apex of the precarious, that the Government had boasted of abolishing - one might say - exits from the door, fall out of the window. If so, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the final mockery. Let's say more clearly that we are re-introduced into the work contracts the continuous collaborations with minimal safeguards. And then, on smart working or agile work, it is right to introduce a discipline of the work done partially outside the premises of the company and through the use of computer systems, because this can correspond to a new opportunity that rewards the autonomy of the worker. But it is necessary to prevent this contractual mode from opening up new openings in the world of precariousness. So, again, more protection and more rights are needed. The centrality of collective bargaining, whether national or second level, must also be sanctioned for these provisions. It should be confirmed that agile work can result in a voluntary choice between the parties, and the worker performing the agile work must be able to benefit from the same guaranteed economic rights and treatment for workers performing the same duties exclusively within the holding. The fundamental criticism that can be made of the measure concerns again the method of the approach followed. It would have been preferable to maintain the universality and objectivity of the rights, regardless of the type of relationship established between the client and the worker, as proposed by the CGIL with the Charter of Labour Rights. Unfortunately, however, we are insisting on a path that has already led to a general fragmentation of the world of work. I conclude my speech on the point I made in the preamble: the draft law on self-employment maintains a very close relationship with the jobs act, which clearly inspires its philosophy, and that is not the case. The propaganda of recent months cannot imply that the slight increase in employment is the result of a robust use of incentives for contributory reductions for companies, and that new recruitments to increasing safeguards, which can be interrupted at any time, even without due cause, are largely changes in term contracts. We are therefore in the trap of low growth, with strong risks on the solidity of new employment and an indiscriminate increase in vouchers. Labour policies so far followed - in my opinion - are not enough to address the demand for freedom and equality that comes from the world of work, with youth unemployment that has reached record levels among European democracies. For these reasons, since I am not convinced in any way to insist on the reforms to work so far supported as a response to the crisis, I am voting against the measure before this House. And let me say today, with the sad news of the farewell to Tina Anselmi, that, in order to improve the quality of life, the only way is to recover that vision of a more inclusive society that takes care of the weakest subjects. [[Applause from the groups PD and Misto-SI-SEL and the Senators Baptist and Casaletto]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u10	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to make it clear straight away that we are not opposed to the recognition of the rights of self-employed workers - we are, indeed, for rights. It is well known that it is this Government that takes away the rights. The great ambiguity lies in the fact that what you call self-employed are, in fact, for the most part, employed. That is the reality. We have tabled very few amendments, which we invite you to read, which go in one direction. Our aim is to achieve a genuine and effective equivalence of the co-ordinated and continuous cooperation contract with the safeguards of employed employment and for this reason we have tabled the amendments. I made this small premise because I would like to reiterate that we are for the dignity and rights of workers. I will then reserve the right to take this into account in the explanation of vote, but I would like to make a few comments on the debate we had last week, which seemed surreal to me to say the least. I have taken into account the speeches made by most of the majority members, starting with the rapporteur, Mr Sacconi. I must say that Senator Sacconi has not only gone off the subject, but has also made a report on what he means as a world of work, which unfortunately does not correspond to reality. I've written a few sentences that seem to me to be very worrying. He says - for example - that there is no longer room for work for life. However, it is not possible to understand from what pulpit the sermon comes from: I repeat that Senator Sacconi has been here in the Senate since 1979, with rare exceptions, and instead, for people who should earn 1,000 euros a month, he speaks of another reality that is not that of life. I would also like to address my colleagues - and this is what I call them because I no longer want to call them comrades - of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] Evidently, judging by their speeches, they either did not understand well what their President of the Sacconi Commission said, or they live outside the world. In the report, President Sacconi makes a passage in which he says that the rules must be simple and certain, of a promotional type, with references to the direct agreement between employer and worker. There is, therefore, an individual agreement: if there is to be national bargaining, it must serve as a framework. The statements made by my colleagues in the Democratic Party show that they are obviously out of reality or that they have not heard well what their President of the Commission has said. There has been talk of the world of work several times in the report and in the speeches carried out, but the latest data must have escaped. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, we cannot speak in this situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u12	You're right, Senator. I would like to ask my fellow Members to note that we are having a debate on the subject of work, which is of absolute importance.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u13	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Thank you, President. I invite someone to read the news a few days ago that reports the latest data on work, published by government agencies - if you can say so - like ISTAT. I remind them: 31 percent more layoffs, unemployment at 11.5 percent - and that's only because you now think you are employed a worker who works two days with vouchers - and 97 million vouchers in the first eight months of this year. That's the data. But if you want to insist on pretending you don't understand, keep it that way. In other speeches by my PD colleagues, I have heard that trade union representatives must be more respected. But that is the exact opposite of what your President of the Commission has said. So agree on these points because you obviously have confused ideas about them. I avoid repeating what Senator Ichino said because he comments on his own. Another intervention that has puzzled me is that of another majority member. I am referring to Senator Berger, who says that they "do things." But if we were to judge on the basis of the data released in recent weeks, it would be better if you refrain from doing anything. If the teachings of Foodora, reported from all the headlines, are those that we read, I really invite you to refrain from planning interventions, because they are not only counterproductive, but they are even destroying the social state of this country. It was then allowed to say that they act and we only criticize. If you want to ban us from speaking and criticizing what is emerging throughout the nation, it means that we have come to the pure dictatorship. We try to bring out your nefariousness. We just have to do this. In my explanation of vote, I will reserve the right to enter into the substance of the draft law. Now I have only made one premise, but I repeat that the bill has nothing to do with self-employment in the true sense of the word and then I will explain why. I try to conclude with something that should interest everyone. What is happening in the world of work in the last few days is before everyone's eyes. To continue to persevere from this point of view with policies that have nothing to do with the real world of work I believe is something that no one will forgive you, starting from 4 December. And I've been telling you this for a long time. Constitution and work must not be separated: they are sides of the same coin. And this is so true that, when our fathers managed to obtain the Workers' Statute, they said that finally the Constitution also entered the world of work. You managed to destroy the Workers' Statute. Today you want to destroy our beautiful Constitution. I don't think they'll forgive you. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u14	Our work is attended by the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo Statale - Guglielmo Marconi - of San Giovanni Valdarno, in the province of Arezzo. We greet them and thank them for their presence in the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are now increasingly aware of the pervasive impact of technology in our personal and working lives and of the possibility of opening up new job and employment opportunities with it. But above all, it is its pace in introducing change and innovation that must not be underestimated and must not surprise us. This draft law is undoubtedly an important first strategic step to prevent the benefits of these changes being only a small number of workers, resulting in a worsening of unemployment and the already marked mismatch between demand and supply of labour which would inexorably deliver Italy to the margins of the international scene. The organizational models of production change, but also the way of conceiving work in this fourth industrial revolution of which no one can predict with certainty the size and the relative step. Our only certainty is that an old world fails, set on vertical hierarchies and on the mere serial execution of the directives issued. This is an old vision on which a labour law has been built made up of protective rules of the weak contractor, which now often become a brake on employability. Personal and professional needs, lifestyles and preferences are now more than ever in rapid evolution. Mobility and job change are no longer seen in negative terms, but, on the contrary, they are often a necessary step towards acquiring new and more skills. Not a few people today prefer to work and be evaluated on the productivity and the result achieved rather than on the basis of parameters such as working time and physical presence in the business premises. If there is no longer a single job for life, it is likely that there will not be a single workplace in the future during the same employment relationship and not even a fixed time. The phases of employee and self-employment are now mostly developed in cycles. It is therefore clear that the employer of the present and of the future can arrive to carry out his work within a project, a mission, a task, a phase of the productive activity. This important change of perspective must lead us to make a sort of methodological leap: it is more appropriate, but also more convenient, therefore, to allow a legislative source to lay down fundamental and unavoidable standards, and to express the constitutional and Community principles, and to leave to the agreements between employer and worker the definition of specific ways in which the parties adapt to each other. In order to cope with the changes, rules should be identified, on the one hand, formulated in a simple and certain form, on the other hand, flexible instruments capable of grasping their positive scope and containing their potential dangerous effects. This is the logic with which, in the text approved in the Commission, we have correctly defined agile work with the intention of understanding all the forms of subordinate work that, through the new digital technologies, are characterized mainly by a strong autonomy and responsibility of the worker. We preferred a broader definition than the one provided for in the government text, which includes everything in the essays called smart working: a way in which teleworking remains anything else, is regulated by European directives, provides for a fixed post organized by the employer at the worker's home. Smart working is therefore not a contractual type because all contractual types can be carried out in agile ways but is well adapted to a horizontal logic, which leaves room for creativity and responsibility. The agility of work performance therefore becomes a concept that goes beyond, while remaining functional, the mere need to ensure a better reconciliation between working time and family time, to its living needs. With regard to the other soul of the measure, the head of self-employment, the approved text certainly has the advantage of being able to respond to the lack of an overall architecture of support and protection for self-employed workers. In the context of the crisis and the great change that we have experienced, VAT numbers have certainly found themselves in a situation of great fragility due to the high tax and regulatory pressure as well as the lack of simple rules that identify appropriate forms of protection, but above all suitable for their autonomous nature. Thanks to this bill, among other things, the liberal professions will be protected primarily by prohibiting an undertaking from creating excessive disproportion between rights and obligations, i.e. the abuse of economic dependence of Article 9 of Law No. 192 of 1998. In view of the changes made to the initial text of government initiative, there is no doubt that the value of both the ordinal and non-Ordinal professions is to be welcomed. Firstly, it welcomes the introduction, in the text approved in the Commission, of the possibility for professionals to set up networks and to participate in networks of undertakings and to set up permanent consortia or temporary associations, in order to allow participation in calls for proposals and to contribute to the assignment of permitted private tasks and contracts. It is also in the same direction that the delegation granted to the Commission on public acts to be given to the professionals registered in the orders, through which it opens up the possibility to entrust to them, through the recognition of their subsidiary role, the performance of functions aimed at reducing judicial litigation and simplifying the activities of public administrations. It also welcomes the introduction of a delegation rule setting out principles and guiding criteria to strengthen the social security and social protection benefits of professionals registered on orders or colleges, enabling private social security institutions to activate, in addition to additional social and socio-health benefits already available, other social benefits financed by a special contribution, in particular in the event of a significant reduction in the income of the subscriber or in the event of a serious illness. However, always with regard to the liberal professions, one cannot avoid noting the deep gap between ordering and non-ordering professions with regard to the extent of contributions and the size of benefits. It is therefore appropriate to achieve a more equitable condition and to provide, in the context of the separate management established at the INPS, for separate accounting management of compulsory general insurance for invalidity, old age and survivors, to which persons who habitually engage in self-employment within the meaning of the single income tax text are required to register. They should also be allowed to charge the principals a percentage of the gross compensation as a refund for the contribution payments. The possibility of overcoming the contributory duplications in relation to the same shares of the remuneration borne by different compulsory pension schemes should be recognised and the contributory requirements and other limits placed on the right to make use of the aggregation of insurance periods should be removed. At the same time, it would be appropriate for the Government to immediately start a discussion table with the most representative associations for monitoring the relationship between contributions and performance and defining the reform path. I would remind you that on all these points I have tabled an agenda to commit the Government to this. Finally, the simplification of the rules for the health and safety of workers in professional studies for the protection of workers and for the safety of employers is welcomed. In all probability, on this subject we will need an additional reflection to understand how we can reasonably guarantee health and safety when the worker no longer moves exclusively within the corporate perimeter. Despite the positive news in this text, I would like to point out that we must not forget those profiles which, in the Commission, have been referred back to the Stability Act for financial cover issues. In the text approved in the Commission, tax and social provisions have already been appropriately removed from taxation all expenditure on income production. However, it remains necessary to eliminate sector studies relating to the liberal professions, as the studies themselves are defined according to the method of competence, while the professional activities operate by cash, with reference to the income to be subject to the tax levy. It is also appropriate to define with certainty the self-organization of professional activities, on the basis of objective criteria consistent with the more consolidated principles desumible from the source of the case law, in order to ensure that professionals and artists are not subject to regional tax on production activities. At the same time, it deserves a certain identification of how to regulate the performances that rely on digital platforms to ensure users about the quality of the services received and the employees themselves about the fairness of the remuneration. Among the sure rules, it would be necessary to provide for a possibility of ensuring a correct identification of the dies a quo from which the limitation period of the action of professional responsibility in the case of the incorrect exercise of the performance by the professional begins. In recent years the legislative vacuum on professional responsibility and the beginning of the period of exercise of the relevant action has been filled, albeit in unsatisfactory terms, by the jurisprudenziale opinion on the matter. The problem of access to credit should then be solved, which has always been one of the most difficult issues for any economic activity and also for the freelancers who often find themselves in difficulty in accessing financing instruments for their business. It would therefore be necessary to promote, within the professional circuit, the establishment of trusted consortia, which can provide guarantees in collective forms, for loans granted by banks to individual professionals. Following the economic crisis and a general narrowing in the provision of credit by banking institutions, the difficulties have widened further, mainly penalising young professionals without adequate guarantees. For this reason, this instrument should be further strengthened, allowing professionals' pension funds to be able to allocate part of their resources to support the activities of the trusts, through contributions and guarantees to the members themselves and professionals. Finally, a final point on which I want to concentrate is the challenge of doing well what we have always done wrong: I am referring to training. The draft law provides for the possibility of recognising the right to lifelong learning, i.e. access to skills and skills and to see them certified. The certification becomes an instrument by which the worker can defend his/her employability, when he/she finds himself/herself to change work, or to contract his/her own salary, which will be increasingly defined in the company, where the possibilities of distributing wealth through wages occur, considering the contribution of each worker. The certification of skills is also a way of verifying how much the worker has contributed to the production of wealth. In this context, the agreement between the parties and their ability to adapt to each other is fundamental: without, however, preventing the collective bargaining of companies from offering an umbrella to individual agreements, it is right to recognise that the closest agreement prevails over others. In the field of training, the need for a national digital literacy plan, through the use of inter-branch funds, is stressed here. This is a fundamental ingredient for the work of the future and for agile work. It will be central to retrain and accompany new skills and skills millions of people, in a large migration, avoiding that polarization of skills and incomes, which many fear and which is already happening in some societies: few earn well and are positioned above the line outlined by the new technologies and many are in difficulty, because they remain below this enabling threshold. In conclusion, the approval of this bill, in the current text, is without doubt the achievement of a first important goal in that transition process of which I mentioned earlier: the transition from a regulatory system of old and anachronistic work, son of a world that has now passed, to a more flexible and flexible system, but equally certain. I repeat, however, that proper regulation of the further aspects I have just outlined and which are not included in the Commission's proposed text is essential for more effective support for the professions and for a full and healthy development of agile work in Italy, as is the case elsewhere. I therefore hope that this missing regulation will find room through subsequent legislative interventions and that at least some adjustments can be approved here, which, without affecting the substance of the text dismissed, ensure even more certain and simple rules, to the mutual benefit of both the worker and the employer. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u17	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u18	Mr President, this measure has been discussed extensively in the Commission. We brought him out of the Commission - I have the deadline, Mr President - a few months ago and today we are debating him in this House. This measure concerns self-employment which is not entrepreneurial: finally! We have always argued, in fact, that in Italy we must give a boost to small and medium-sized enterprises and, therefore, also to self-employment that is not entrepreneurial. We believe that this type of working relationship is fundamental for Italy and must therefore be supported in all its forms. But reading the provision we cannot rest assured because, starting from the type of self-employment relationship, it suddenly totally changes the scene and begins to talk about something that has absolutely nothing to do with self-employment. So, if on the one hand we are completely in agreement with the vast majority of the rules introduced by the measure to our examination - on which we too have proposed some changes - on the other, suddenly, the scene changes completely and we go to regulate another type of relationship that, I repeat, has absolutely nothing to do with self-employment, that is, subordinate work, favouring - in particular - as the title of the bill states, its flexible articulation in times and places. Unfortunately, in Italy, for years when the worker hears the word "flexible" he must really be frightened. Again, the employment relationship is regulated and in particular a new type of employment relationship. Some might say that it is not a new type, but a new mode and instead it is a new type. As I said, we have seen that the measure contains positive interventions in relation to the self-employment relationship because we have brought back the rules on combating late payments in commercial transactions and we have made it possible to extend this discipline also to the relationship between self-employment and administrations (because it is truly unbearable that the State delays payments to self-employed workers), we have ensured that we can finally say enough to the unilateral changes or terminations of the relationship without notice and sufficient to the contractual clauses that allow the delay in payment of compensation, although unfortunately we wanted something about the appropriate compensation; it is excellent to introduce rules that protect inventions and intellectual property, bureaucratic-administrative simplifications, even if the article containing such simplifications contains letter b) that we do not like at all. However, there are many aspects of self-employment that are positive. As far as agile work is concerned, i.e. the flexibility of employee work, I would ask you to consider why, in my opinion, the rules contained in Article 15 should be terminated. I conclude, President, by reading this article: "The provisions of this Chapter, those relating to agile work, to the purpose of increasing competitiveness..." and these are fine words...promote agile work as a method of carrying out the subordinate employment relationship, established - attention - by agreement between the parties, rightly, also with forms of organization for phases, cycles and objectives and without precise constraints of time or place of work, with the possible use of technological tools for the performance of work. The work performance is performed, partly within the premises of the company and partly outside the company................................................................................................................. I would ask you to consider: let us pretend that I am an employed person with a part-time employment relationship. The part time contract shall specify precisely the time. What can happen? A labour inspector comes to the company and rightly so, since the contract states precisely the working time, the employer could "fredge" the inspector by saying that it is true that in the contract I am expected to work from 16 onwards, but that I came to lend my work in the morning because I take advantage of the agile work. And actually, maybe, it's a full-time job deal disguised. In that case, the labour inspector will no longer be able to identify whether he has come across fraud or whether he really has a case of agile work. The employer, in fact, will do what he wants and the inspector can do nothing to him. So, to the employer who wants to cheat you are giving on a silver platter the opportunity to do so, and marameo at labor inspections! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u19	Senator Serafini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u20	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to vote on represents an overall intervention in a sector, that of self-employment, which has been severely tested in recent years of crisis. The status of self-employment, as this legislative initiative has been renamed, has therefore no doubt the merit of having finally paid attention to a sector that has so far been forgotten and penalised by excessive fiscal pressure. Senator Maurizio Sacconi, President of the Commission, and rapporteur for the measure, must be acknowledged that he first showed interest in the subject, presenting his own draft law that aims to accompany the change in the world of work, because technologies now allow to be more flexible and to adopt a much more agile working approach. We are in the age of smart working, which leaves the employee free to organize spaces, times and places of work, making himself responsible for his work in order to achieve the objectives in total autonomy. Multinationals and businesses are already experimenting or discussing agile work. It is often the same employees who call for flexibility in terms of the workplace and access to real-time training. For example, the employees of Safilo devote 20% of their time to this mode and the company has equipped itself with the technological tools necessary to start these trials. It is also important to remind this House that we recently approved Law No 4 of 2013 on unorganized professions: the phenomenon of the new professions is constantly growing, testifying to the profound processes of economic, social, productive and organizational transformation that are taking place quickly. The text that we are going to vote on these days consists of two chapters. The rules contained in the chapter They introduce provisions on self-employment, with the aim of building a modern welfare system for such workers capable of supporting them in the present and protecting them in the future. Women, such as those of motherhood and illness, want to stimulate above all women's employment, promoting the reconciliation of living and working time, a topic particularly felt in the field of professional studies, where women represent a high percentage of employment. I am reminded of the words spoken during the hearings held in the Commission by the representatives of the professionals, who welcomed this legislative initiative as an extraordinary opportunity to relaunch the professional sector. Chapter II introduces an agile labour discipline, including with regard to public employment, in order to respond to the new needs of the labour market. Thanks to an agreement between the parties, the worker and the company can define forms of organisation for phases, cycles and objectives and without constraints of time or workplace, with possible use of technological tools for the performance of work. This activity can be carried out in part within the company and in part outside, within the limits of maximum duration of the daily working time deriving from the law and collective bargaining. The agreement must also identify the rest times of the worker. The worker employed in agile forms of work may be granted the right to lifelong learning, in formal or informal ways, and to the periodic certification of skills. During the examination carried out at the 11th Commission, the Forza Italia Group has constantly sought to carry out constructive opposition in order to improve certain aspects of the text, so as not to limit the freedoms of self-employed workers with rules that are too restrictive or superfluous and, on the other hand, to support professional work in an increasingly difficult labour market situation. Agile work, even if late, will finally have a regulatory framework, because, as often happens, the practical tendency of society anticipates the work of the legislator. This is demonstrated by the recent renewals of national contracts that have opened the door to agile work, such as banking, insurance, telecommunications and information technology, but also by recent agreements with metalworkers. I would also add that, for the time being, it is mainly the large multinational companies that are experimenting with smart working, which take measures to ensure the protection of data used and processed by workers who perform their work in agile working methods. To approve this measure is therefore important in order to provide a regulatory framework able to overcome uncertainties and push companies to undertake innovative forms of work outside the office. The criterion of conceiving work and its organization is radically changing. We have an important task: to constantly manage the evolution of the world of work and people. It is essential to keep up with these continuous changes by offering rules and provisions adapted to reality. While we strongly represent an opposition force in this House and confirm our criticism of the economic policy of this Government, we cannot fail to recognise the important changes contained in this text. With a deep sense of responsibility towards the productive fabric of our country, the Senators of the Forza Italia Group will vote favorably for this measure. Mr President, I would ask for permission to hand over the full text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting, having only given a summary for reasons of time. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u21	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u22	She's enlisted to speak Senator Spilabotte. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u23	Mr President, the bill on self-employment that comes to this House today is a summary of a government bill and a Member of Parliament. The text has been amended several times since the beginning of the year, which led to the adoption of a number of amendments. This text was the most robust component of the 2016 Stability Act and today is shown at 5.4 million stakeholders, investing the eclipsed world of self-employment. In fact, this is a blurry world, when it comes to the protection provided for self-employed workers of non-business origin, since, until the conception of many of the protections contained in the draft law in question, the latter were intended only for employees. For this reason, therefore, the innovative nature of such a bill appears really remarkable and has been repeatedly highlighted by the Government. The group of independent workers, defined by the National Institute of Statistics, was, in December 2015, about 5.4 million, with a significant and continuous loss of weight compared to the total employed: they were about 6.1 million in 2004, with an incidence of almost 28% of the total, up to an incidence of about 23.5 percent in December 2015. In any case, self-employment is still central in contributing to the wealth of the country. The only so-called order-making or non-ordering professions overall estimate a contribution of more than 18% to GDP and the weight of the self-employed, compared to the total number of people employed in our country, remains still among the highest compared to the major European economies; I quote only Germany and France, which are 11%. Data show that self-employment has been more affected by the consequences of the crisis in recent years. What are the causes? The economic crisis has affected all categories of workers, including self-employed workers: with regard to the latter, however, it is possible to highlight some additional problems: the lack of a system of social shock absorbers and income support, for example, has certainly penalized the category compared to that of employees. The growing burden of bureaucratic and administrative burdens follows. In the context of the general economic crisis, the autonomous work presents some additional problems. As pointed out in the explanatory memorandum to Law No 2233, at the root there is not so much the nature of self-service, but the lack of an overall architecture of support and protection, especially at times of personal difficulties or forced absence from work, as in the case of illness or maternity. It may be said that the world of self-employment and work has been unduly neglected, both in relation to its importance and in relation to the principles expressed in the 1948 Constitutional Charter. Suffice it to mention the role assigned to the economic initiative (Article 41) or the principle expressed in Article 35, according to which the Republic protects work in all its forms; principle certainly disregarded from the almost total prevalence assigned to the protections recognized to the subordinate work, no longer justified by an economic system with a Fordist characterization now in the process of progressive overcoming. In fact, there is no self-employment right, but only a plurality of the rights of the different professions that are reflected in different rules of access, different rules of ethics, different competences, different social security rules. Within these systems, the levels of protection and guarantees are greatly changed: maximums for certain ordering professions and minimums for other professions. The stated objective is therefore to build, also for self-employed workers, a system of modern rights and welfare, capable of supporting their present and protecting their future. With regard to the content, the draft law is concerned with aligning the safeguards for self-employed workers with those for employees on the one hand, although they are subject to greater controls, and on the other hand with introducing substantial innovations. Among the first, the most important and I would like to stress is the recognition of the maternity allowance for self-employed women enrolled in the separate management of INPS, who will no longer have to stop working and will have the opportunity to work even during their motherhood, having recognized their own protection for women workers who are waiting. In this way, this category of self-employed workers is in line with that of traders and craftsmen, who can already work during the five months of maternity, to whom all self-employed women are entitled today. The payment of contributions for periods of illness longer than sixty days is then suspended and payment is resumed upon return from work; the deduction of up to 10,000 euros per year of training costs, the prohibition in payment terms exceeding sixty days from the delivery of the invoice; the compulsory written contract between the undertaking and the self-employed and the equivalence of the economic treatment with that of the employee in the matter of agile work. Another real novelty is the provision by the centres for the use of a door for self-employed workers: this instrument provides for the collection of applications and job offers, while providing information of various kinds, especially on access to public procurement contracts. It should also be stressed that Article 7 of the draft law provides that self-employed workers are to be treated as European funds for the period 2014-2020 by deleting the time limit and therefore for an indefinite period. In this way, in essence, the self-employed are given the opportunity to access European funds, thereby facilitating their participation in public procurement through the support of ad hoc desks at employment centres. I would call this bill, therefore, the redemption of self-employment, with great ambitions: to give a framework of organic reference to the work not only of VAT matches in the strict sense, but also, more generally, of freelance professionals, ordinalists, non-orderists, co-ordinated and continuous collaborators. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u24	I declare the general debate closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u25	Mr President, I would like to thank all the colleagues who have spoken. First of all, I would remind Senator Barozzino that, as President of the Commission, I am also his President. I think I have done so, indeed helped by all my colleagues and colleagues, that the Commission...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u26	President Sacconi, can you get a little closer to the microphone? They call on you to hear it, and that should make you proud.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u27	Mr Sacconi, rapporteur. Absolutely, also because before we had many difficulties listening to Senator Spilabotte and there was a doubt that the Presidency wanted to prevent the speaker from disturbing the House as a whole. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Instead, they even call for your speech, President Sacconi. Mr Sacconi, rapporteur. As I said, I think that a good job has been done in the Commission, thanks to the support of all the parliamentary groups, so much so that in the speeches there has been a fairly significant common denominator, that we can believe that it has found a very broad, if not unanimous, consensus in the Commission. This leads us to take a first consideration: the balance identified within the Commission could be confirmed by the House, that is, the latter could, in the light of this robust work, confirm that text by referring to the second examination some profiles that may require further study. The measure consists of two parts, as everyone has mentioned. The question of the liberal professions finds here significant answers to the questions of protection and the greater capacity of the professions themselves. More has been called for in the Commission and in subsequent interventions. This other approach should find solutions within the framework of the Stability Act and the related measures: we refer to certain fiscal disciplines and also to the more complex issue of social security management relating to non-order professions (i.e. so-called separate management at the INPS). It would be desirable - and some agendas, if I recall correctly, refer to it - at least to the introduction of transparency for that management, so that we can - in a transparent way - consider the relationship between contributions and benefits, which at the moment seems particularly unbalanced. As far as self-employment is concerned, I would just like to add one consideration to that made by Mr Ricchiuti on the subject of unregulated collaborations. Indeed, the fact that the project collaborations have been cancelled on the basis of a long campaign against them, has revived the collaborations much less regulated: a subject that the Commission has dealt with in recent days through the hearing of the new National Labour Inspectorate on the case Foodora. This digital platform allows some young people to work and achieve work performance in a very ambiguous condition, and the basis for this ambiguity is precisely the suppression of project collaborations. Let me remind you here of this to all those who for a long time have blamed project collaborations, who in their rigorous typing allowed inspection also a repressive ability that in the state may not be entirely there, at the moment when, eliminating them, we returned to the not better defined "collaborations" referred to in the civil code. As for the so-called agile work, through whose definition we wanted to understand what in literature is called smart working (work made more agile and intelligent than the use of new digital technologies), I would like to remind you that really this measure does not introduce a new type of contract. I would remind my colleague, Mr Pallini, that we do not intervene on distance work, which is typical of European directives transposed by our country, that this is configured (and has a specific regulation) when it takes place from a fixed, homely place, organized by the employer. In this case, we have taken a definition that totally ignores teleworking and homework through new technologies, i.e. distance work organised on the basis of an employer's platform. (17.49) (Sacconi, rapporteur) On the other hand, we have indicated with a gentle regulation the possibility for the parties, through the contract that regulates them, to adapt to each other through ways of using new technologies. Nothing more. We have not, in fact, achieved a significant novation, but we wanted to encourage as much as possible the dissemination of new digital technologies, so that they express all the inclusive potential, reducing all the negative potential that much literature identifies in the technologies themselves. I remember that, not by chance, we wanted to refer to two rights that, although promotional, are very significant, the first of which is to disconnect. Therefore - and I address Senator Puglia - the feared pathology is not that of a regulation below the required performances, but of the required performances that can be beyond those of the defined contract, because the continuous connection, without interruptions, could give rise, on the contrary, to a pathology of abuse of the worker's availability. The right to disconnect, on the other hand, would protect the worker from this abuse. On the other hand, I would like to mention the right to continuous access to skills, knowledge, skills, as I said in the report, from formal, non-formal and informal sources, as a real right to employability. We are in a soft law, soft law, which refers to bargaining, so we define a promotional right, but for this reason it is not less important. Finally, I would like to point out that collective bargaining, both national and company, is naturally empowered to intervene in this matter. It is not in any way inhibited, it is free and, as such, we could only implicitly confirm it with a text which, on the other hand, has been concerned above all with encouraging the progressive, reciprocal adaptability between the parties, in relation to technologies whose characteristic is that of the unpredictableness and speed of the changes that will reasonably determine in the labour market. I would like to thank Mr Serafini specifically because he has voted in favour of the measure by the opposition. Its Group has, indeed, supported many amendments to the final text, as the other Groups have done. The amendments have been absorbed by the rapporteur's summary texts and his declaration of sharing the measure is further indicative of the good work we have done and of which I hope the House of Deputies will take account. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u28	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u29	Madam President, I would like to thank the Commission for the work it has done on the content, which involved all the groups, by majority and opposition, and which made it possible to enrich the text of government initiative. In his reply, I will confine myself to recalling the cornerstones of the intervention and the philosophy that inspired the bill, which was linked to the last law of stability. The measure on the extension of protection in the purchasing of self-employment is an important ingredient of the government's strategy on rules of play in the labour market. It arrives not by chance after the jobs act, because only after a cleaning and drawing operation of a new boundary between subordinate and autonomous work carried out by Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2015, which made clarity with respect to the grey area of the work parasubordinate and extended the discipline of the work subordinate to a part of the fake self-employment with the concept of hetero-organization, it was possible to think of an overall intervention of enlargement of the protections for self-employment. The measure then starts from there, introducing safeguards first of all for real self-employment and not for false self-employment, which was attacked with that work of the job act of widening the area of subordinate work, and not only looks to the real self-employment, but to all self-employment, without fences between professionals with order and professionals without order. The two basic messages are these: to look at real self-employment and all self-employment with a new set of safeguards. First of all, there is the question of protection against late payment, in favour of the recognition of the creative and innovative activity that the worker and the professional place in the commission, against unfair terms, including abuses of economic dependence and a whole series of protections that make the professionals stronger, old and new, in the client and in the employment relationship. In addition, tax relief is needed to recognise the importance of training, guidance and the search for ways of redevelopment and relocation in the market. There are, therefore, new and stronger tax incentives for those who invest, put themselves at stake and risk on the market. It is expected a greater ease of access to public notices, removing stakes for professionals, ordering and not. Finally, there are new safeguards for illness and also extension of the rights to motherhood and paternity. This set of safeguards in the purchasing and self-employment market is part of a broader strategy of government attention and strengthening self-employment. There is not only this bill: there is intervention on the tax, in the last law of stability, with a new system of minimums or a flat-rate scheme facilitated, especially in the start-up phase, in which the new professional activity begins and there is an intervention in the social security field, which is seen in the light of these days, with the sending of the budget law to Parliament and the reduction of the contribution rate for non-orderist VAT consignments to 25%. It also leaves open the yard of social security and welfare protection, as has been pointed out by many members of the Commission work, which will be able to enrich both the work in budget law, and the work that awaits us on this measure to accompany, in the rethinking and reordering of the separate management for non-orderist VAT consignments, not only a structural reduction of the contributory wedge, but also a strengthening of the protections through interventions on the contribution rate. This measure is not only about self-employment: it has a second head on agile work. This is a completely different argument from the so-called jobs act of self-employment and the strengthening of the protections for new and old professionals, but it also wanted to give a signal of innovation in the regulation of working relationships simply by introducing a soft regulation compared to a method of subordinate work that already exists in the market, that the law is limited to accompanying giving some legal certainty compared to employers and workers who want to innovate the forms of the employment relationship. This is not a new contractual case, there is no deregulation or destructuration of subordinate work, this is a simple method of subordinate work: those who have a subordinate employment relationship, who are hetero-direct and, after the jobs act, even hetero-organised, can still find innovative forms that regulate it in individual agreements without any deregulation, but, I repeat, only by establishing and giving certainty to those who want to innovate, with this soft regulation that does not drop from above on the reality of the labour market their alleged rationality, but that wants to accompany the processes of innovation that already exist. A soft regulation, a sweet regulation - I like the translation of Senator Sacconi - that wants to accompany these processes without introducing any destructuration. I believe that the work done in the Commission, that is to say, enriched both the cornerstones of this intervention: the extension of the safeguards to self-employment (all self-employment, real self-employment) and the soft regulation of agile work. The text is now richer and is ready to be further enriched in the subsequent parliamentary passages.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u30	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. As you know, since these opinions are related, they have a particularly strong value on the discussion of the amendments, so that, where the opinion of the Budget Commission is opposed, the amendments are inadmissible. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which have been declared inadmissible, and agendas, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u31	Madam President, the agenda for G1,201 calls for objective reference remuneration parameters to be included. In fact, when the expression "fair compensation" is introduced into law, who establishes the fair compensation if we do not fix at least a range? The abolition, for the liberal professions, the tables, the tables and the tariffs, has created a great confusion. There had to be a virtual competition, while in fact a great chaos took place: you find yourself in a jungle, and you work to work. Many professions no longer earn what it takes to keep a study alive and are forced to follow the trend of market jobs. If our code provides for the dignity of the work provided and the decorum of the profession, then the work must be of quality and no longer with the tariff down, a lot to the kilo. I hope that at least the G1201 agenda can be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u32	The rest of the agenda will be set out. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u33	Madam President, I turn to the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u34	Madam President, the Government's opinion is against both agendas, for the simple fact that the extension of the protections I mentioned in my reply is seen by the Government as having as their object new protections, drawn on self-employment and not by looking at the rules of employed employment. For a heterogenesis of the ends and the strong difference of self-employment, placing strict and parametric constraints on fair compensation could produce side effects. On the other hand, if one thinks, only on the side of the professional order, of the re-introduction of regulated tariffs, this would have a negative effect on the Community principle of free competition. I therefore repeat the opposite opinion on both agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u35	Are the G1200 draftsmen insisting on the vote? PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I certainly insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the order of business G1,200... [[Senator Santangelo points out that he wants to intervene]] Senator Santangelo, do you request electronic voting?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u36	Yes, thank you, Madam President. It opens the vote when I call for simultaneous scrutiny by electronic means. I do so now for all votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u37	No, until now no one had raised his hand and heard nothing but some screaming. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1200, presented by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1201, presented by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views. Amendments 3,200 and 3,202 are inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u38	Madam President, on all the amendments tabled to Article 3 I make a call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u39	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u40	Divine Senator, do you accept the call for the withdrawal of amendment 3.2 tabled by the rapporteur or do you insist on the vote? DIVINE (LN-Aut). I insist on the vote on all my amendments, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Do the authors accept the call for the rapporteur's amendment 3.4 to be withdrawn or do they insist on the vote? PUGLIA (M5S). I insist on the vote on all my amendments, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.7, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.15 tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Pagano, do you accept the call for the withdrawal of amendment 3,201 tabled by the rapporteur? PAGE (AP (NCD-UDC)). Yes, Madam President, I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. CUOMO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u43	FATTORINI (PD). Madam President, in the previous vote, my intention was to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u44	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented. Amendments 5,201, 5,204, 5,206 and 5,207, 5,209, 5.0,200 and 5.0,201 are inadmissible. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u45	Madam President, I am against Amendments 5,200 and 5,300, 5,302, 5,303 and 5,304. I call on the authors to withdraw Amendments 5,202, 5,301, 5,203, 5,205 and 5,308, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u46	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u47	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,200. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,200, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,300, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Zizza, do you accept the rapporteur's call for withdrawal on Amendment 5,202? ZIZA (CoR). Yes, Madam President, and I also withdraw Amendment 5,203. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does Senator Puglia accept the rapporteur's call for withdrawal on Amendment 5,301? PUGLIA (M5S). No, Madam President, I maintain the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5301 tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.203 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.302, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.303, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Pagano, do you accept the rapporteur's call for withdrawal on Amendment 5205? PAGE (AP (NCD-UDC)). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,304, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Serafini, do you accept the rapporteur's call for withdrawal on Amendment 5.208? Serafini (FI-PdL XVII). No, President, I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.208, tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5,210 is precluded by the declaration of inadmissibility of amendment 5,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u50	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for clarification. There has certainly been a misunderstanding: my Group's vote on Amendment 5,304 is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u51	Senator Santangelo, the vote declares itself individually. SANTANGELO (M5S). It's okay. If you want, we'll get up one by one. [[Numerous Senators of the M5S Group indicate that they want to intervene.]] The Presidency notes that all the votes of the members of the 5 Star Movement Group on amendment 5.304 were to be considered favourable. I would remind you, however, that one account is to report an error and another is to change the vote of an entire Group. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I have told you that there has been a misunderstanding, but if you prefer we can intervene one by one, so there is no problem and you take away all doubt.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u54	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I too am speaking, because there has been some confusion, for the same reason: our vote on Amendment 5,304 was in favour, partly because it is our amendment, but it has been like an overlap in the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u55	Senator De Petris, I specifically asked Senator Barozzino if he confirmed the amendment and so I put it to the vote, so there was some confusion between the Groups. However, the Presidency notes that the Senators of the Mixed Group and the 5 Star Movement Group voted in favour of amendment 5,304, at the first signature of Senator Barozzino. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6 on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which are intended to be presented. Amendments 6,200, 6,201, 6,202, 6,203 (correct text), 6,204 (correct text), 6,205 (correct text), 6,206 (correct text), 6,207 (correct text), 6,108 (correct text), 6,210 (correct text), 6,211 (correct text), 6,212, 6,114, 6,215 and 6,216 are inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u58	ICHINO (PD). Madam President, I withdraw all the amendments at my first signature, with the exception of 17,203 and 19,203.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u59	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u60	Madam President, I call for the withdrawal of amendments 6,300, 6,302 and 6,217, otherwise the opinion is against it. The opinion was opposed to amendment 6.301.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u61	Madam President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u62	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6,300, on which the rapporteur has made an invitation to withdraw. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,300, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6301, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.302.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u65	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, the text of amendment 6.302 contains a mistake. In truth, I wanted to ask for the words "complementary benefits" to be replaced by the words "social benefits."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u66	The point is this, Senator Puglia: as a colleague, if an amendment is reworded, it should be submitted to the Budget Committee for its opinion, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. It cannot be put to the vote without the opinion of the Budget Committee, because you understand that there can be a substantial difference in financial terms between the additional budget and the social budget.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u67	I don't know, maybe it can turn into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u68	In that case, the text must be sent to us. You must immediately submit to the Presidency an agenda that can be assessed, otherwise the call for withdrawal remains. I do not know whether the President of the Budget Commission can give an opinion at the moment on the rewording. I do not think this is going to affect financially. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the President of the Commission to give his opinion in this House, pursuant to Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u69	Madam President, if you give me a few minutes we can examine it. I therefore propose that we set aside Amendment 6.302 to have time to examine it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u70	I would say that Amendment 6.302 is set aside for a few minutes until the end of the discussion of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 6. I invite Senator Puglia to consult quickly with Senator Tonini and explain the scope of the amendment. Amendment 6.213 has been withdrawn. I would like to ask the presenter of amendment 6.217 whether he intends to accept the call for withdrawal. Serafini (FI-PdL XVII). No, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.217, tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u71	Madam President, on the agendas referred to in Rule 6, I refer to the opinion of the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u72	Madam President, I am in favour of the G6100 agenda, provided that the initial part of the scheme is reworded as follows: "It commits the Government to assess the appropriateness and financial sustainability of initiatives aimed at: (...)" and I would also ask that, in point 3, the words "with immediateness" be expunged.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u73	I ask Senator Pagano if he accepts the rewording proposed by the government. PAGE (AP (NCD-UDC)). I accept the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u74	On the agenda, Mr G6,200, I am against, while on the agenda, Mr G6,201, I am in favour, provided that the initial part of the proposal is reworded as follows: "It commits the Government to assess the appropriateness and financial sustainability of initiatives (...)"
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u75	I ask Senator Puglia if he accepts the rewording proposed by the government. PUGLIA (M5S). I accept the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u76	I am against the agenda for G6/01 and G6.202. On the G6.20 agenda, the opinion is in favour, provided that the provisions are amended as follows: It commits the Government to assess the appropriateness and financial sustainability of initiatives aimed at completing the construction process also for self-employed workers of a system of rights and welfare.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u77	Divine Senator, do you accept the reformulation? DIVINE (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u78	On the agenda, G6.204 I am in favour, provided that the initial part of the mechanism is reworded as follows: It commits the Government to assess the appropriateness and financial sustainability of regulatory initiatives to be put in place for the purposes of (...), and that the only point (b) of the same mechanism remains in place, as point (a) is exceeded by the intervention contained in the draft budget law on contributory rates.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u79	Senator Puglia, do you accept the proposed reformulation? PUGLIA (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas G6.100 (text 2), G6.201 (text 2), G6.203 (text 2) and G6.204 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Puglia, do you insist on voting on the agendas of the day G6,200, G6,101 and G6,202? PUGLIA (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G6,200, presented by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment G6101, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.202, presented by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall resume the examination of amendment 6.302, which had previously been put aside, on which the President of the Budget Committee had been asked for the opinion, pursuant to Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, which I invite him to make.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u80	Madam President, on a quick examination, this is a typical case in which the Budget Committee gives an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution for the absence of a technical report; that is, it is impossible to give an accurate assessment of the non-payable nature of the amendment, so it would be necessary to carry out an appropriate investigation accompanied by a specific technical report and therefore here the opinion of the Budget Commission can only be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u81	Consequently, amendment 6.302 is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u84	PUGLIA (M5S). In fact, since the wording of the amendment does not make any sense at the moment, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u85	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which amendments have been tabled, all of which have been declared inadmissible, and agendas, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u86	Madam President, I'm going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u87	Madam President, on the agenda, Mr G7,100, I am in favour of this proposal, provided that the initial part of the proposal is reworded by adding, after the words "the Government is committed," the words "to assess the appropriateness and the financial sustainability of initiatives aimed (...)"..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u88	Senator Pagano, do you accept this proposal for reformulation? PAGE (AP (NCD-UDC)). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G7100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Mr NANNICINI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Similarly, Madam President, on the agenda, Mr G7.101, I am in favour, provided that the initial part of the system is changed in the same way: It commits the Government to assess the appropriateness and the financial sustainability of initiatives aimed at the development of the European PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Berger, do you accept this proposal for reformulation? BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G7.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Mr NANNICINI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Madam President, I therefore support the G7 102 agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the G7 102 agenda will not be put to the vote. Mr NANNICINI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Madam President, on the agenda, Mr G7.103, I am in favour of this proposal, provided that the initial part of the proposal is reworded as follows: PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zizza, do you accept this proposal for reformulation? ZIZA (CoR). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G7.103 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Mr NANNICINI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Madam President, I would also like to express my opposition to the G7104 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u91	PAGE (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I ask that I be able to put my signature on the agenda for G7,102. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I believe there are no objections from Senator Parente.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u94	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I will add the signature to the agenda for the G7104 and insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u95	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G7104 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G7.104, presented by Senators Catalfo and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 8, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u96	Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to the G8.00 agenda. I just wanted to remind the Government, in view of the necessary elasticity in the implementation of the provision that Article 5 provides for the full deductibility of certain charges incurred to guarantee the non-payment of claims (these are mostly insurance forms that the professionals or self-employed must do). This means that there is objectively a difficulty in collecting the agreed compensation. But even by writing that this figure is deducible, in fact there is no certainty of the right to payment, but the self-employed or professionals are still obliged to bear additional costs in order to have it recognised. We therefore call for a kind of guarantee of payment certainty to be achieved, but not for further disbursements. Let's think about the advances that professionals have to make, for example, on a number of charges (unified contributions), and the lack of certainty of the liquidations. We have left an open parenthesis; that the Government finds the formula, but that there is the certainty that the payments take place, beyond the deductibility of the insurance costs.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u97	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u98	Madam President, I am against Amendment 8,300 and call for the withdrawal of Amendment 8,301. I then return to the government with regard to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u99	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments. On the agenda, I give a favourable opinion on the agenda G8.00 provided that the part of the provisions is reworded as follows: It commits the Government to assess the appropriateness and financial sustainability of initiatives aimed at providing for forms of credit guarantee for workers in case of impossibility or extreme difficulty in achieving it. I am against the draft agenda. On the agenda G8.202 I am in favour, provided that the initial part of the mechanism is reworded as follows: "It commits the Government to assess the appropriateness and financial sustainability of initiatives aimed at (...)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u100	Divine Senator, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G8.00? DIVINE (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G8.202? PUGLIA (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 8,300. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,300, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Puglia, do you accept the call for the withdrawal of amendment 8,301? PUGLIA (M5S). Do not withdraw it, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,301, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G8.00 (text 2) and G8.202 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Puglia, do you insist on voting on the agenda G8.201? PUGLIA (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.21, presented by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented. Amendments 9,200, 9,206, 9,207, 9.208, 9,209 and 9,210 are inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u103	FAVERO (PD). Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 9,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u106	PAGE (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 9,202 if the rapporteur's opinion is against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The rapporteur has not yet expressed his views on the amendments. PAGE (AP (NCD-UDC)). I therefore maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u109	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to withdraw Amendment 9,204.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u110	The Presidency takes note of this. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u111	Madam President, I would ask the authors to withdraw Amendment No 9,300, otherwise the opinion will be against it. Amendments 9,201 and 9,202 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u112	Amendment 9,202 is withdrawn if you take the opposite view.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u113	Mr Sacconi, rapporteur. Madam President, the opinion is against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 9,202 is therefore withdrawn. Mr Sacconi, rapporteur. Finally, Madam President, I am against Amendments 9,205 and 9,301.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u114	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u115	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 9,300. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,300, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 9,201, 9,202 and 9,204 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9,203 tabled by Senator Gambaro, identical to amendment 9,205, tabled by Senator Molinari. (The vote was followed). GAMBARO (AL-A). Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 9,203. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It wasn't announced. Therefore, the only amendment 9,205 remains in the vote. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u118	SANTANGELO (M5S). We are doing well, but if you put Amendment 9,203 to the vote, which is then withdrawn, and you say that we are also voting for Amendment 9,205, I do not think that is very correct. He even said that in the final phase. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is very correct because there is only one vote for all the amendments. SANTANGELO (M5S). You must say so before the vote and not later. That's absolutely not fair. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is correct because announced during the vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, he announced it only after the vote had taken place, and this was done not on any more amendments but on one amendment. We do things right or we create very particular precedents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Gambaro had not announced the withdrawal of the amendment. Its Parent Company, which is in the process of voting, withdrew it. I cannot cancel the vote for this reason. SANTANGELO (M5S). He said it in the end.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u119	Amendment 9,203 has been withdrawn; amendment 9,205 has been rejected. The outcome of the vote shall not be altered. The vote is useful. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.301, tabled by Senator Zizza and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u122	Mr Sacconi, rapporteur. Madam President, I usually agree with myself, so please note that my vote was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u123	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented. Amendment 10,200 is inadmissible. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u124	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u125	Madam President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u126	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,300. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,300, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,201, tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 11, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u127	Madam President, Amendment No 11,304 seeks to introduce an indication that clarifies the rule better, because I do not want professional associations to be favoured in the calls, thus excluding the individual professional. Therefore, it is to be specified that the whole must be done without prejudice to the legal form covered by this Regulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u128	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. Amendments 11,202, 11,203, 11,205 and 11,206 are inadmissible. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u129	Madam President, I am against all the amendments. On Amendment 11,303 I make a call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it. As far as agendas are concerned, I'm going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u130	Madam President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. I also object to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u131	Amendment 11,204 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11,300. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11,300, tabled by Senator Zizza and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11,301, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.302, tabled by Senator Zizza and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Divine Senator, do you accept the invitation to withdraw amendment 11,303? DIVINE (LN-Aut). No, Madam President, I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.303, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11,304, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11,305, which is identical to Amendment No 11,207.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u134	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 11,207.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u135	I therefore call on Senator Zizza and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 11.305. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agenda G11.100 has been withdrawn. Senator Puglia, do you insist on voting on the agenda G11,200? PUGLIA (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G11,200, presented by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12. CUOMO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Brusio.]] I ask colleagues to lower their voices. There are many amendments and it is really difficult to work. I ask as a personal courtesy. Amendment 12.0.200 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 13, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which will be discussed. Amendments 13,202, 13,203, 13,205, 13.0,200 and 13.0,201 are inadmissible. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u136	Madam President, I would ask you to withdraw all the amendments, otherwise the opinion will be against them. With regard to agenda G13,200, I turn to the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u137	Madam President, the opinion on the amendments is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur. I am against the G13,200 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u138	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13,300. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13,300, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 13,200, tabled by Senators Catalfo and Paglini, up to the words 'the worker's'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 13,301 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13,302, tabled by Senators Catalfo and Paglini, identical to amendment 13,201, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 13,204 has been withdrawn. Senator Puglia, do you insist on voting on the agenda G13,200? PUGLIA (M5S). I insist on the vote, Madam President. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G13,200, presented by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u141	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, I rise to declare my abstention on Article 13, which is based on the fact that, during the course of the course we have taken in the Commission, we have missed a significant part of the article and the draft law under consideration. I would have liked to make up for our lack by presenting Amendment 13,205 to the House. A week ago I asked Secretary Biondelli to pay attention to this amendment, which had been declared impervious under Article 81 of the Constitution, due to the lack of financial cover, but related to the lack of the technical report, as explained to me by the President of the Budget Commission, Senator Tonini. I have also spoken to Mr Nannicini, who has asked him to consider this amendment. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u142	Colleagues, it is not possible to work under these conditions. I beg you to stop the bush and the huts, because you cannot go on like this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u143	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Thank you, Madam President. I would particularly like to pay particular attention to men, rather than women, because the amendment relates to women, as is often the case. We have made a difference, because under the jobs act, in case a woman suffers violence, suffering a kind of feminicide, she is given the opportunity to abstain from work for up to ninety days and economic support, if she is employed, in the public or private sphere. This is not the case for self-employed women who, if they suffer violence and have the need to recover psychologically and physically from the damage they have suffered, have no financial compensation and no aid related to that period of ninety days, in which they could abstain from work and rebuild their personality. I believe that this is a great disparity and a lack of attention. Since we have a bicameralism and since the draft law under consideration will be passed to the Chamber of Deputies, I hope that the technical report will be presented in that Chamber, in order to determine how much resources will be needed to cover the extension of the legislation in question to women who work independently, who, once suffered such damage, will be able to abstain from work. I therefore call on the Government to assess the cost of this extension and I hope that the House of Deputies will be given a corrective measure. I do not care whether it will be done on behalf of the Government and not with an amendment to the first signature of Senator Bencini: the important thing is that we get to recognize a 360 degree coverage, which must apply both to women employees of the public and the private as well as to self-employed women.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u144	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 14, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u145	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u146	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u147	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14,300 CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14,300, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14,0300, tabled by Senator Zizza and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.301, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 15, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented. Amendment 15.202 is inadmissible. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u148	Madam President, I call on the authors to withdraw Amendments Nos 15,200 and 15,300, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am against Amendment 15,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u149	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u150	Senator Zizza, do you accept the call for withdrawal on Amendments 15,200 and 15,300? ZIZA (CoR). No, Madam President, I keep them both. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 15.200. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15,200, tabled by Senator Zizza and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.201, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15,300, tabled by Senator Zizza and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 16, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which are to be discussed. Amendment 16.0.300 is inadmissible. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u151	Madam President, I am against all the amendments. As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G16,100, I turn to the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u152	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments to Rule 16. The opinion was opposed to the draft agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u153	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16,303. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.303, tabled by Senators Catalfo and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 16,200 and 16,201 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,304, tabled by Senators Catalfo and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,300, tabled by Senators Catalfo and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.305, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.306, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,301, tabled by Senators Catalfo and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.302, tabled by Senators Catalfo and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask the first signatory, Senator Berger, if you insist on voting on the G16,100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u154	Madam President, I insist on voting on this agenda because I do not understand the reasons for the opposite opinion. It is, in fact, only a clarification on hundreds of pending disputes, which only with an authentic interpretation can all be archived.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u155	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G16.100, presented by Senator Berger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.0.301, tabled by Senators Catalfo and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Article 17, on which amendments have been tabled, which I call on the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u156	Madam President, Amendment 17,203 is the correction of an obvious material error. Paragraph 2 of Article 17 on agile work refers to the agreement between the parties on agile work. Obviously, it cannot be a reference to Article 14, which is still part of the chapter of the Self Employment Act. The only question that I would ask the rapporteur and the Government to consider is whether it is better to correct in the sense of referring to paragraph 1 to Article 15, where we are also talking about the agreement establishing agile work, or to Article 16, where we are specifically talking about the form that this agreement must have. However, the practical content of the provision is the same in both cases. If it were considered more appropriate to refer to Article 15, I would amend the amendment accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u157	The remaining amendments are set out. Amendments 17,202, 17,204 and 17,205 are inadmissible. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u158	Madam President, I am against all the amendments, except for Amendment 17,203, on which I am in favour. As far as Senator Ichino's proposal to refer to Article 16 is concerned, this is shared by the rapporteur. On the additional amendment 17,0300, I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u159	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u160	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 17,300. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,300, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u163	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I wanted to vote against Amendment 17,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u164	Senator Caliendo, stay in your place to vote better. However, the Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,301, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,203 tabled by Senators Ichino and Favero. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.302, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 17 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,0.300, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 18, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented. Amendment 18.0.200 is inadmissible. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u165	Madam President, I am against all the amendments, except for Amendment 18.6 on which I call for a withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u166	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u167	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.30. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.30, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators, identical to amendment 18.30, tabled by Senators Catalfo and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.302, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.303, tabled by Senators Catalfo and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.304, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.305, tabled by Senators Catalfo and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Zizza, do you accept the call to withdraw amendment 18.6? ZIZA (CoR). Madam President, I welcome it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 18.6 is therefore withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.0.300, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 19, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u168	Madam President, Amendment 19,203 concerns the obligation on the employer to specifically inform the worker with whom the agile work arrangements have been agreed about the additional risks he may run in performing the work outside the premises of the company. In this case it seems to me very important, since it is certain that this... [[Senator Candiani exhibits a sign with the words: "Enough Renzi".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u169	Senator Candiani, I can't read, but please lower that sign. readable signs are not permitted in the Chamber. I would ask Parliamentary assistants to intervene to lower the cartel. Senator Ichino, please proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u170	I was saying that it is certain - this is, in fact, the clear will expressed by the work in the Commission and by the intentions expressed by the Government itself which presented the draft law - that in this case it is meant to say that the employer is required to specifically inform the worker of those possible risks which are added to those normally inherent in the performance carried out at the workplace. If that is the understanding - and it seems to me that there is no doubt about this - I believe that, in order to make the text of the rule more consistent with it, eliminating any possible misunderstanding or interpretative uncertainty, it is appropriate to clarify that the obligation in question, which involves the fulfilment and delivery of a specific risk assessment in question, refers to any risks which may be related to the particular mode.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u171	Senator Ichino, if I am not mistaken, the subject you are presenting is that of amendment 19,200, of which you announced your withdrawal. I'd like to make sure you confirm.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u172	Amendment 19,200 has been withdrawn. We are only talking about Amendment No 19,203, which has the same purpose as Amendment No 19,200, but differs less...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u173	Good. I wanted to be sure, because there had been some misunderstanding from other colleagues too.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u174	ICHINO (PD). If I wish to deviate as little from the text of the draft law as possible, I propose amendment 19.203 or its rewording that the Government or the rapporteur considers appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u175	Madam President, I have listened to Senator Ichino, but of course he always only tells half the truth. Immediately after the withdrawal of his amendment - as I understand it - I tabled Amendment No 19,201, which concerns safety at work. You talk about agile, slender work. If we are to be safe in the workplace - and I agree that we must - we do not have to give a document once a year - as Senator Ichino says - because we are talking about workers who will be subject to daily work changes. Therefore, training cannot be done with a sheet of paper that is delivered at least once a year. Safety at work is important when you change workstations, when you do a different job: this is doing training. Otherwise we talk about fried air, as Senator Ichino is used to. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barozzino, please respect your colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u176	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, I believe that there must be a misunderstanding in this passage. We are always talking about effective, unbureaucratic and possibly simple work, but here it is prescribed an annual notice to the worker on safety issues at the workplace. This means that it becomes continuous, repetitive at that moment, also for the worker himself: it is something that he sees coming every year and puts it aside without looking at it, because it is now a circular. Amendment 19.202 provides that, when the situation at the workplace changes, a communication is made to the worker so that he knows that the question of the workplace and safety have changed. If communication becomes repetitive and continuous, it is nothing extraordinary and nobody observes it. I therefore call on the Secretary-General to accept my amendment, which provides for communication only when the workplace is undergoing significant change, in order to simplify, de-bureaucraticize and to make this communication even more effective. That is my request and I believe that no one will lose his honor if he accepts it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u178	What are you going to do about it? BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I think that on such an important subject at least one minute I should like to give it to you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But you can speak in an explanation of vote. BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). I shall then take the floor in an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Well, we are not now in the process of explanation of vote. BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, we are talking about such an important subject that what has been said cannot go through, because it is not the truth.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u179	Senator Barozzino, I understand the importance, but I will give you an explanation of vote on the amendments. But I cannot give you the floor at the stage of illustration, because you have already spoken. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u180	Madam President, I would like to say that all the amendments relate to the discipline of health and safety at work which is agile. Paradoxically, despite opposing positions, Senator Barozzino, on the one hand, and Senators Berger and Ichino, on the other, stressed how unproductive formal requirements are, especially when unnecessarily repeated, i.e. in the absence of new objective elements that determine new general or specific risks. The rapporteur therefore understands the reasons for simplifying these obligations. With my colleague, Mr Berger, I recently presented a very subversive bill with respect to the logic of security for formal compliance. However, I must express the Commission's opinion here, and I cannot help noticing that there is, at this time, a contrary opinion, in the sense that the matter of security would have achieved a balance in the Commission within the terms set out in the text before this House. I hope that this reflection will continue in the Chamber of Deputies, even if it is not unknown to the majority of the people the approach different from the Senators Berger and Ichino that the Commission works in the Chamber of Deputies and the House itself could have. Basically, by putting me back to the Government's opinion, my call is a warm call for withdrawal, so that there is no rejection of amendments 19,300, 19,202 and 19,203; otherwise, bitterly, I am against it. I am therefore against Amendments Nos 19,201, 19,301 and 19,204.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u181	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u182	Amendment 19,200 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 19.201. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19,201, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask the authors whether they wish to accept the call for the withdrawal of Amendment No 19,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u183	No, Madam President, we insist on voting on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u184	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19,300, tabled by Senator Bertacco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Berger, do you insist on voting on Amendment 19.202?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u185	Madam President, I will not withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u186	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.202, tabled by Senator Berger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19,301, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Ichino, do you accept the call for the withdrawal of amendment 19,203?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u187	Madam President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u188	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.204, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 19.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u189	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u191	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, we will vote against this article because it has become clear that endless disputes will arise on the draft law on safety at work. The clear example is given by how the majority intend to make safety in the workplace with regard to agile work. They basically determine who's gonna decide. The examples of Amendment 19.202 or Senator Ichino's are flashing. The amendment states: "to be updated and delivered whenever the general and specific risks undergo a significant change." There is legislative decree No. 81 of 2008 and it must be respected. On the other hand, the government and the members of the majority have made this clear. Once again you are on a very dangerous road. We're talking about safety in the workplace. I can't say more than that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u192	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 20. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 20.0.200 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 21. CUOMO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 22. CUOMO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 22. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u195	[[Brusio.]] I would ask colleagues to allow Senator Mandelli to speak. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I should like to speak briefly... [[Brusio.]] I'll wait a few minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u196	As you know, perfection in this House is difficult.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u197	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to remind the House... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u198	I pray that all colleagues who have to talk to each other about taking him out of the Chamber. It is a matter of respect for my colleague who has to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u199	Please, Senator Mandelli, I call you. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to announce to the House that I have submitted a question for the event which unfortunately took place on 28 October in the municipality of Annone, in the Province of Lecco, on the road no. 36, where unfortunately Claudio Bertini lost his life in a truly... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u200	Colleagues and colleagues, I would ask you to leave the Chamber because you cannot go on like this. Please continue, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u201	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). As I said, I would like to bring to the attention of the Assembly what unfortunately happened on 28 October in the municipality of Annone, in the province of Lecco, on the highway no. 36, one of the busiest in the whole of Northern Italy, with tips of really particular users. In the early afternoon Claudio Bertini lost his life in an accident that really needs to be considered. A viaduct overlooking that section of the highway no. 36 crashed over the passage of a articulated vehicle. We are faced with a difficult situation to explain to those involved in this incident. And that is why I would like, in addition to the sympathy of the Forza Italia Group to the Bertini family, to have the opportunity to have an immediate response from the Government. In my question, I asked to understand exactly the facts - and I hope that the Minister can respond to this truly inexplicable tragedy - but also what he intends to do for what - as I said a few minutes ago - is one of the busiest states in Northern Italy, full of overpasses. So if there is a need for intervention, proceed. Have an investigation, a mapping of the maintenance status of all overpasses. You must know exactly what we want to do with the important traffic that crosses the North on that state road and for the tranquility of all, you really need an immediate response. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u202	We hope that this will happen soon.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u203	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u204	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u205	RICHIUTI (PD). Madam President, with this late-session speech, the Senate continues today with a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she has been linked by a love affair or has been linked. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. Tonight in Cornigliano, a neighborhood of Genoa, a woman, Rosanna Prete, of forty-nine years old, was killed by her husband, who shot her and the two daughters of ten and fourteen years old, and then committed suicide. This brings up to 22 women we remember in this relay, which began only on June 30. The diagnosis that many and many people are now facing is that this kind of crime comes from a cultural and educational factor. There are men who are not alphabetized to the relationship with women, who cannot conceive women as a person. We have phenomena of radical misunderstanding, of maniacal attitudes that derive from ignorance that the other person has a dignity and that the body of the woman is his and not man's. Unfortunately, although not yet thoroughly investigated, in the last ten years the phenomenon of children who witness violence on their mother is also dramatically increased, generating further traumas that can significantly compromise their future. In order to try to remedy this mentality, unfortunately very widespread, the Chamber has begun to examine various legislative proposals in the matter of socio-affectional education (proposal of Tentori and Braga law and associated drafts of law) which, in various titles and degrees, aim to include in the school the teaching of gender education which constitutes, in some proposals, matter of curricula in its own right, in others, an integral part of the educational activities already planned. The relevant educational measures must be included in the plans of the educational provision of schools of all order and grade, including, therefore, the school of childhood. However, it is surprising that after the fervor that accompanied the beginning of the discussion of these draft laws, everything is still in the Chamber of Deputies, with a truly inexplicable postponement. For this reason, I hope that the process of examining the measures will resume quickly. I remember that with Law No 119 of 15 October 2013 against gender violence, which Parliament approved in implementation of the Istanbul Convention, our country recognised violence against women as a violation of human rights and gender discrimination and as a social phenomenon that has its roots in the asymmetrical relationship of power between men and women. For this reason, violence against women can be prevented by intervening on the factors that determine it. For this reason, a plan against violence against women has been proposed and approved and, in the meantime, protection instruments have been strengthened to ensure greater safety for women threatened. However, it is necessary to monitor and verify that these measures work and that the plan is implemented. In conclusion, let us reiterate our appeal with conviction. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bernini and Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u206	The Presidency shares the pain for this umpteenth death and hopes, with Senator Ricchiuti, that the plan will proceed in its implementation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u207	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u209	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to denounce the new frontier in order to expand the capacity of the asylum-seekers' reception system, which I call self-appointed refugees, because statistics show that, for two thirds, they are economic migrants and, therefore, illegal immigrants. I would remind you that, on 27 October, there were 172 000 asylum seekers in our reception system. After the availability of hoteliers failed to make available their own accommodation facilities and the availability of palazzinari that make available unfamiliar accommodations and after in recent days the chronicles have spoken of actions of requisition of structures, including the hostel of Goro, for a few days it has gone even to propose to rent the houses foreclosed. This is a real shame because there are families in economic crisis, with a father who may lose his job and, failing to pay the mortgage, he sees himself foreclosure the house by the banks. What's going on? A few days ago the judge of the real estate executions of the court of Lecco issued a statement (directive or circular, I don't know how to define it) to the lawyers of the foreclosure creditors, that is the banks, saying: you have the possibility to rent the houses foreclosed to accommodate asylum seekers. Moreover, this was done on the basis of some political considerations, because the judge spoke of purposes to pursue a high humanitarian and social purpose and of the possibility of valorization of the property, erroneously defining "refugee" the people who potentially can go to occupy these buildings, since it is known that the refugees represent only 5% of the total. This judge's behavior is truly shameful and completely ultra-revolutionary. For this reason, the Lega Nord Group has today submitted a parliamentary question to Minister Orlando to ask him whether he is aware of the content of this circular (directive or communicated, as you wish to call it), whether he himself provided the directives to the court of Lecco or to all the Italian courts, or whether these directives have been received by the president of the ordinary court of Lecco. And if he does not share the content of this shameful circular, the question asks the Minister whether he intends to initiate an inspection to censor this serious behaviour of the court of Lecco. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u210	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u212	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask - for the third time, I believe - the answer to Question 303072, which I signed on 1 August, which asks the Government, and in particular the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, why, as is apparent from the website of the foundation called Bill, Hillary & Chelsea Clinton Foundation, this Ministry is among the donors of the foundation. This has been ignored so far, but I remember that in a week's time we will have already voted in the United States and it would therefore be appropriate for the Government to respond, also in the light of the fact that a number of problems contained in the famous deleted e-mails of the then Secretary of State Hillary Clinton concern the issue of the Clinton foundation. Therefore, it would be good if we did not make ourselves beat a hundred to zero in terms of transparency, not only by the United States Government, but by the Clinton Foundation itself - which is also within some attention even from the US federal police - which has written on its website the list of all donors, including the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the Italian territory and sea. The Ministry, on the other hand, not only didn't let us know anything, but it doesn't even answer why, when and how this donation was made. Secondly, Madam President - I will try to be very quick - I call for the intervention of the presidency of the Senate, because in television broadcasts, which should concern the constitutional referendum, it is said that Italian parliamentarians are the most paid in the world and that the Italian Parliament is the most expensive in the world. This is clearly not true: it is enough to consult the websites of other parliaments, such as the French, German, United States or United Kingdom parliaments, to realize that this is not true. I have written to the editors of television or radio broadcasts in which it appears that this lie has been uttered, but also by a high office of the State, and I have received no answer, except in one case. I therefore call on the Presidency to intervene. Everyone can support the political views they want, but to say that the Senate and the Italian Chamber of Deputies cost more than the more than $3 billion that the United States Congress costs - just to give an example - is a shameful lie, used, moreover, for the purpose of a referendum on a very serious matter, such as constitutional reform, which may or may not please me - I personally do not like it - but it is certainly an extremely important fact. Therefore, to make propaganda - which in general is legitimate - about such consultation cannot be used lies, which damage the prestige of Parliament and individual Members. [[Applause from Senator Amidei.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u213	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-713.ana.u214	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday, 3 November, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.51 a.m.
