ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 26 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u4	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1932. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u9	Madam President, yesterday's general debate has made clear what I had already said in the introductory report; there is a general sharing and sensitivity towards this measure by all the political forces that have actively contributed, thanks also to the wise direction of the President of the Commission of Inquiry, the first signatory to the bill, to draw up the text today for the attention of the Senate. There are only a few issues that have been raised. The only colleague who has shown an apparent opposition to the text in general was Senator Giovanardi, to whom I do not think it is even necessary to answer because, in my opinion, a careful reading of the measure itself allows to dispel all his doubts, starting from the fact that what has been said about the attack, of which I will return to talk later, must have a back-up nature and does not intend in any way to protect anyone. In fact, I believe that yesterday I explained in detail the reason why there is no danger that the penalties against the author of the slanders by means of the press will be increased, just as he has feared from several parts in recent days. The further concern that has been expressed is that of Senator Caliendo, to whom I believe it is useful to respond simply by reporting the outcome of the report by the President of the Commission of Inquiry, which was unanimously approved. In that report we read: In this direction it would appear that investigators have moved on the rare occasions mentioned, in which certain intimidating acts have been classified as violence or threat to an official within the meaning of Article 336 of the Code. This offence, however, as noted in the hearings carried out by the Commission, does not make it possible to distinguish between local administrator and other public officials or public service officers and to grasp the particularity of the local administrator who, while performing administrative functions like other public officials, assumes his role by virtue of the application of the democratic principle. In essence, it is said that the application of Article 336 of the Criminal Code would not be adequate, as it would prove inappropriate to grasp that quid pluris which distinguishes the offence against the local administrator from that directed to another official public. It is for this reason that the text introduced the amendment of Article 338, specifying - as suggested during the same hearings - that the individual component must also be included, following, moreover, also that jurisprudence (which is the most recent and that Senator Caliendo said not to share, but that - unfortunately or fortunately - it has been applied in recent times) which considers that, in the threat to the individual component, not even Article 338 is applicable. It is, therefore, correct the specification that has been made in this provision with reference to Article 338 of the Criminal Code and not to Article 336, as requested by Senator Caliendo. As I said, there has been a general sharing of the measure, regardless of the comments I have mentioned earlier, but not of great importance; on the other hand, there have been concerns about the inclusion of the hypothesis in Article 595 of the Criminal Code in the text of Article 3, even as reworded with the amendment I have tabled in recent days. I think it is necessary, indeed essential, to reiterate that the text of Article 3, since its original wording, did not give rise to any doubt of interpretation, for the reasons I have already set out yesterday. I repeat this once again: it was not possible and it was not provided for by the application of the new legislation any increase in the penalty for libel by means of the press, because, for the applicability of the content referred to in Article 3 of the measure under consideration, it is necessary that quid pluris which is the intention of the staff member. Press defamation would therefore remain regulated by the legislation in force and there is no doubt about this - I repeat - of an interpretative nature. Nevertheless, as was stated yesterday in general debate, it is also to be considered that in the Justice Commission there is a discussion on the measure, already approved in the House, concerning the crime of defamation in its entirety. I repeat, there is a text that has already been adopted. I would like to ask for this measure to be approved as soon as possible, in order to put an end to all the discussions that have taken place in recent periods, because it completely eliminates prison sentences for defamation offences, including the crime of libel by the press, leaving only the financial penalties alive. Given that the examination of this amendment is under way, it is correct and appropriate, accepting the suggestions made yesterday during the general discussion and during the countless interlocations between the various political forces in recent days, to refer to that measure also the case of the defamation provided for in Article 3 of the measure today to our examination. On the other hand, the removal of Article 595 of the penal code from the text of Article 3 does not affect the content of the entire bill, even in view of the marginality of the case-law examined, as emerged during the hearings: the case-law on defamation, as an intimidating act and violence against local administrators, has turned out to be a rather marginal and residual hypothesis. At this point, therefore, we agree that the reference to Article 595 of the Criminal Code should be deleted from the text of Article 3, as reworded in Amendment 3,300. I would like to stress that this decision has also been taken in order to avoid any perplexity and to avoid any continuing controversy, in my opinion - I repeat - totally unfounded, but which would certainly harm the whole plant, because in some way they would degrade the content of the whole measure. By avoiding these polemics, one also tries to foster a general sharing by all political forces, as it has been up to now. It is therefore hoped that the measure, also in the light of the outcome of the debate, will be approved, as previously, with unanimous agreement in a short time. This is what the countless local administrators, their families, people and citizens of all the municipalities affected by this phenomenon ask us. It has been well pointed out by many colleagues that those acts of violence and intimidation are not directed only at the individual, but they affect entire communities, in which, in most cases, there is a good administration, which is obviously annoying to someone. For this reason, I announce that Amendment 3,300 will be reworded by deleting the reference to Article 595 of the penal code from the text of Article 3 of the measure. I will conclude by asking once again for the measure to be approved as soon as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u10	The representative of the Government renounces his reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u11	Madam President, to be honest, I see a fairly surreal debate going on. On the one hand, Mr Cucca and those who spoke yesterday continue to insist on something absolutely right: the protection of local administrators, mayors and city councilors from threats, slanders, campaigns aimed at conditioning and intimidating them, especially when there are specific interests at stake or administrative measures. Even yesterday we remembered how many administrators have lost their lives to carry out their function. Then we continue to pick up on the fact that this measure concerns Members of Parliament and judges. No one in this House has yet explained to me why we continue to talk about local administrators, when instead all the rules we introduce into the code, referring to local administrators, are automatically extended to Members and judges. I recall once again that for Members of Parliament the Constitution provides for the indisputability of the opinions expressed in the exercise of their duties (so they are on a higher level of constitutional protection than the citizens), while for the magistrates, as is known, when there is a need to defend themselves, there is a case-by-case analysis that is to testify that, being the same magistrates to judge, an eye on regard for their colleagues, when it comes to a conflict with a journalist or with a citizen, they always have it. But Mr Cucca says that yesterday's debate revealed a problem that concerns defamation. Now I would not like, as happened on the question of negationism, to get the applause of left-wing intellectuals, but I read today on a well-known newspaper that this bill refers to a curious initiative in the Senate according to which Article 3 introduces defamation to the detriment of a component of a political, administrative or judicial body, through aggression. It says the article: "Perhaps the extensors of similar (surreal) case studies that refer to a climate of regime (the Rocco code to a dictatorship responded, moreover) (...) ". This is a judgment that comes from the Manifesto, comes from Vincenzo Vita, which does not seem to me to be a reactionary. Vincenzo Vita has also grasped what the Federation of the Press has read, namely that, as it was presented to the debate of the Assembly, it was a liberticidal measure and that the discourse of retaliation is neither in heaven nor on earth. In fact, Vita says that she has invented this diction of the crooked nature and defines all this as a risky mess, which mess remains. Can you explain to me what retaliation is? Compared to a local administrator, I understand very well what a back act is. I ask you, however, what is a backsliding act, such as a threat or a backsliding campaign, against a Member of Parliament. I recalled situations in which each of us was found, when he exposed himself to different positions in battles that, for example, concern drugs or civil union. It is clear that, in such cases, we have also been subjected to slanderous or retortive campaigns, in the sense that we are told that they would make us pay for our parliamentary position. I recalled yesterday Gandolfini, who said in St. John's Square that they would make the government pay for their attitude on the issue of trust in civil unions. Is this a backup act? Politically, it is. Is that a threat? Of course, it is a political threat. How should it be interpreted? I come back to the previous reasoning: it will be the magistrates who will interpret this threat. Meanwhile there will be a complaint, although I admit that having removed the defamation is a step forward. Colleagues Senators, we have brought to this House a measure that increases the penalty for defamation from one third to half, when in the Commission justice is being discussed, with the general consent, to eliminate prison sentences for the crime of defamation. It was therefore proposed that one case be dealt with, extending it to Members and judges, if they were affected by this back-up and defamatory campaign when, at the same time, the Commission is going on diametrically opposed positions. I insist on asking for some answers from my fellow Members, on the reasons for their position on the amendments I have tabled, which clean up the text, saying that the rules - which are very clear once the reference to Article 595 of the Criminal Code has been made - on the threat of unfair harm, violence or threat that forces others to do or to omit something and on the subject of the speeches concerning harm and aggression, are applied to local administrators, so that all local administrators who are victims of such behaviour have special protection. Explain to me why you do not want to approve the amendments that keep firm the fact that, according to the penal code, is struck who assaults a political and judicial body, with the jurisprudence - as my colleague Caliendo yesterday explained well - that already interprets in the sense that when we talk about the political and judicial body we also mean an aggression that affects the individual component of that organ: therefore the criminal protection is already there. Explain to me why you want to make a mess, by extending to Members and judges a rule that has already been motivated in the title and in all the speeches of colleagues by the fact that a Commission of Inquiry has rightly noted with concern the increase of attacks and intimidation against local administrators. I have not heard anyone say that there is an emergency because there are intimidating or defamatory acts against parliamentarians or magistrates, so we must change a rule and apply it to our own protection. In this case I see only one more liberticide law and a limitation of the freedom of the citizen or the journalist to carry out a critical activity, even heavy, towards Parliament or the judiciary; and instead of having us the protection that all citizens and journalists have - already enjoying the protection deriving from our indisputability - we self-appear to the local administrators. The rapporteur has not responded to this and my colleagues have said that there is unanimity. Excuse me a moment: there is unanimity on the rules relating to local administrators. I would also like to know the views of colleagues from other groups. Yesterday I read an interesting contribution received from the Chamber of Deputies, by an authoritative member of Forza Italia, who says that this is yet another liberticide law and yet another attempt to limit freedom. If I read it to local administrators, I disagree with that statement. On the other hand, if I read what is happening, that is, that we want to extend to Members and judges a further limitation and worsening of the penalty for those who put themselves in the back condition, I would like to understand how we interpret Article 610 of the penal code in relation to us. Do we read it as follows: Does anyone with violence or threat force a Member to do, tolerate or omit something? Does that mean someone's threatening to omit something? It's not an administrative act. I have received so many threats, how will you have received so many of them when you are committed to certain matters, but do you need special protection? I also wonder what is meant when we refer to anyone who threatens unfair harm to a Member of Parliament, or when it is written in the text that under the same penalty those who commit the act in order to obtain, hinder or prevent the release or adoption of a legislative measure. I therefore wonder what the threat is to prevent a legislative act from taking place. When is this threat mentioned? A strike, a demonstration, the blockade of the country that can put a union in place are a threat? Probably, because you want to create an impediment to Parliament or to Members of Parliament, but is it a political threat or becomes something that legally can lead to a process? In our opinion, having extended this protection to Members and judges, just for an administrative act, for something specific about local administrators, is a very serious mistake. It is therefore a good thing that defamation is eliminated, but in our opinion it is also necessary to remove any reference to parliamentarians and magistrates who have absolutely nothing to do with the protection of local administrators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u12	Madam President, I will be very brief. We have tabled amendments which went in two main directions: the first is to remove the reference to defamation, which we understand was limited to the conduct of a retrosive nature, but which, in any case, we consider inappropriate because of the danger of abuse, the difficulties of interpretation and, basically, for an application that could actually lend itself to a plurality of interpretations not always in the direction that could be hoped for in the indication of this crime. We therefore welcome the rapporteur's statement that, if we have understood correctly, we want to delete the reference to Article 595 of the Criminal Code. On the other hand, Amendment 1,202 refers to the desirability of excluding any reference to the national Parliament, and therefore to Members, of the legal effects of the measure under consideration. Let us be clear: if that had been the objective, we should not have set up the Commission of Inquiry into intimidation against local administrators, but a Commission on intimidation against national or local politicians. I do not want to say that we cannot discuss this issue, but it seems absolutely inappropriate to include an extension of the scope of the rule also to the national Parliament and therefore to the Members of Parliament. That is why we have tabled amendments, including the 1,202 proposal, which would go precisely in the direction of limiting the scope of legislation, i.e. excluding national assemblies. We have also tabled sub-amendment 3,300/7, which explicitly provides that the provision in this article does not apply in relation to the components of national legislative assemblies. This would solve this obvious criticality of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u13	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u14	Madam President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u15	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u16	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senators Caliendo and Palma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u19	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I would like to briefly point out that with the vote against the amending proposal to delete the word 'political', we are carrying out an operation covering ourselves with local administrators. With the alibi and with the excuse of defending local administrators, we protect parliamentarians by giving them excessive and contradictory protection over the fact that parliamentarians cannot be called upon to respond to opinions expressed. We therefore increase the distance between Members of Parliament and citizens and, above all, we open the way to the possibility of criminal complaints on the basis of this rule, and not those already existing for 50 years protecting Members of Parliament, compared to those who - as we shall see later - may be the subject of retortative attitudes or of those who simply, as we have seen in Article 1, may be affected if threatened to obtain, hinder or prevent the adoption of any legislation, including legislation. I wonder how a paragraph that criminally affects a citizen, a journalist, an association that threatens to obtain, hinder or prevent the adoption of any measure, including legislation, referring to individual Members, can be included in the penal code. That seems to me to be another step towards limiting freedom. This Parliament has the mania to say that it wants to decriminalize, but then it continues to criminalize with new cases of crime even conducted which have never been criminally strikeable either with increased punishment or with the introduction of new figures on which the jurisprudence will then have to struggle to find out what the limits of application of this rule are. I insist on saying that we must not make a rule for caste, a rule of self-protection: we must protect local administrators, not politicians and politics.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u22	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, in agreeing on the points made by Senator Giovanardi, I am obliged to point out to him and to the other Members of this House that if we share the view that Members do not need this particular type of protection, then the next amendment 1,202, first signed by Senator Cappelletti, which limits the protection provided for in Article 338 to regional legislative bodies. If the entire Senate Assembly votes in favour of this amendment, if we agree that national politicians understood as members of the two Chambers do not need this particular protection, then the problem can be resolved and continued.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u23	Just for the sake of clarity, I would like to remind you that we are about to vote on Amendment 1,201. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,201, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,202 tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,203, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u24	Madam President, I would like to point out - the debate is currently taking place in the country - that even the political groups that debate every day about the caste and the privileges of Members have voted in favour of maintaining privileges for them. They did not want to exclude representatives of the National Assemblies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u25	Senator Giovanardi, we are at the illustration of the amendment and not at the commentary on the previous article.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u26	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I can explain this amendment as I think it is most appropriate. These are important issues. There is also good faith in the parliamentary dialectic, but I have not yet heard anyone defend and explain why politicians and parliamentarians should have this additional protection. Instead, he heard his colleague from the 5 Star Movement say that he was perfectly in agreement with me when he excluded the political groups, but then I saw him vote against the amendment. I continue, therefore, in my battle - which can be isolated here but is not in the country - to protect local administrators and to oppose these rules of self-protection of the caste of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u27	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u28	I am against both amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u29	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u30	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,200, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,201, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u31	Madam President, I would just like to clarify: the rapporteur's amendment provides for the deletion of Article 595 (of the penal code) from the text. A new rewording of the amendment is proposed with the removal of this article from the body of the text, with the replacement of the following words: "Judicial" due to the words "Fulfillment of an act in the performance of the mandate, duties or service." This is only a further technical specification.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u32	Senator Cucca, I invite you to forward to the Presidency the text of Amendment 3,300, as reworded. It seems to me that the fundamental change is the elimination of Article 595 of the Criminal Code. In this way, the identical sub-amendments 3300/1, 3,300/2 and 3,300/3 lapse, as the object fails.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u35	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, in fact this means that the proposal contained in them to delete Article 595 is accepted. I ask for clarification. We are pleased that this is not happening, because this means that the sub-amendments proposed to delete the reference to Article 595 in the rapporteur's amendment 3,300 are accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u36	That's right, Senator De Petris. The substance of the sub-amendments is accepted, one of which is signed by him.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u37	Madam President, I would like to explain the amendment 3,300/7, signed by Senator Cappelletti, which I request to subscribe to. I come back to the point that I briefly outlined earlier. The amendment specifies that the protection framework referred to in Article 339-a does not apply in relation to the members of the national legislative assemblies. I come back to the point also in reply to Senator Giovanardi, who obviously does not have the usual lucidity this morning, in representing him too that, with this amendment, we explicitly want to exclude members of the national legislative assemblies from this protection because, frankly, it seems an ultronic measure, unnecessary, which could give rise to controversy over a protection of the parliamentary caste that wants to defend itself from possible attitudes of this type. The opportunity is therefore right to reply to Senator Giovanardi. I am sorry to have to mention this, but he continues to support these arguments which are not justified and which are also denied by the same vote in this House: ours and hiss. We'll probably go back to the defamation point. The problem no longer exists, of course. We welcome the rapporteur's initiative to remove Article 595 from the text of Rule 339-a. It is necessary, however, to refer to the controversy, which has also found space in the press, in which Senator Giovanardi charged the 5 Star Movement with the will to put a gag to the press and to intimidate journalists, supporting the need to maintain the crime of defamation as aggravating in the cases provided for in article 339- bis. This, too, is the only opportunity we have, as a political group, to blatantly deny what my colleague said in a rather prodigious way two weeks ago, by making targeted and unfounded communications. We do so simply by analysing the text of the amendments tabled. It is paradoxically apparent from them that Senator Giovanardi's assertions that the same colleague in his amendments wanted to maintain in several cases the crime of defamation as aggravating in the event that the offence is committed against the protected categories. I am referring to Amendments 3,200 and 3,203, which have always been signed by Giovanardi, where we even want to exclude injuries, threats and private violence as an aggravated form, but defamation is maintained. This, Madam President, with a view to restoring the truth and to tacitizing the political and media polemics that have taken place, fortunately not in a particularly significant way, in recent days.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u40	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to add the signature to this and to all the other amendments tabled by our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u41	The Presidency takes note of this. The remaining amendments are set out. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, he was interviewed for the illustration and gave up. He will now speak in an explanation of vote. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u42	I am against sub-amendments 3,300/4, 3,300/5, 3,300/6 and 3,300/7. I naturally support Amendment 3,300 in its reworded text. I also object to Amendments 3,200, 3,301, 3,202, 3,203, 3.1, 3,204, 3,205, 3,206 and 3,207. I am in favour of Amendment 3.0.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u43	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u44	I would remind you that the possible adoption of amendment 3,300 (text 2) will preclude all other amendments and sub-amendments, of course with the exception of the additional 3.0,200. I would also point out that amendments 3,300/1, 3,300/2 and 3,300/3 have been accepted by the rapporteur's amendment 3,300 (text 2) and have therefore fallen. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,300/4.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u47	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I use the explanation of vote on this sub-amendment to express my Group's thoughts on Article 3 of the draft law and on the rapporteur's amendment. We believe that both Article 3 and the rapporteur's amendment constitute a technical error and can lead to interpretative anomalies with regard to the new wording of Article 338 of the Criminal Code, as amended by Article 1, which has just been adopted. Why do you say that? In Article 1, which we have approved, we punish, in accordance with Article 338, the attitudes of violence and threat that have also been achieved because of the release or adoption of a measure. We are in the presence of a complex crime, that is to say, a crime whose case includes another crime within it, both the threat offence and the crime of violence. A behavior, this, that assumes criminal appreciation... [[Brusio]] Senator Cucca, please listen to me, because I am happy to speak to the House, but the rapporteur is you, so I would like to ask you and the Government very politely for an issue. We are in the presence of a complex crime, which involves other crimes, violence and threat within it, which take on criminal appreciation when they are committed also following the release or denial of a measure. If it gives me so much - and I go to the rapporteur's amendment or to the text of Article 3 - I am faced with a series of crimes of violence and threat (I think of Article 582 and 612 of the Criminal Code) that, if they were committed in the present case provided for in Article 338, they would have an independent criminality and it would not really be possible to punish the same fact twice. [[Brusio]] I'm sorry, I'm not obstructing. After this surgery, I'm silent.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u48	Don't disturb Senator Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u49	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Articles 582 and 612, especially 612 in a striking manner, are part of that complex offence referred to in Article 338. However, I can understand that it can be said that these offences can be separated from Article 338 and therefore essentially, since they are not linked to it, an aggravating possibility is envisaged. All of this would be possible if Article 338 did not contain the following words: "because of the adoption or the issuing of a measure" and therefore, basically, it is a matter of violence or a threat following the adoption of a measure and obviously closely related to it. Dear Senator Cucca, I take note of your rewording which weakens, in my opinion, the text of your amendment when it says: "because of the fulfilment of an act". You must explain to me the reason why if I make a threat to a local administrator after the issue of a measure I am sanctioned according to the penalty provided for in Article 338, while if I do it against a local administrator following the completion of an act that, by hypothesis, is exactly the issue of a measure, I am subjected to a different penalty. The fact is objectively the same. What are the boundaries of Article 338 with respect to the borders of 339-a? I believe that these boundaries are not clear and that this can lead to considerable and not indifferent interpretation difficulties. And then, if you really want to imagine a different aggravating factor for a particular type of crime, you should be much clearer in the wording, because when you say that anyone committing a threat offence against a member of a municipal, regional council or what it is, following the completion of an act, you must also explain the difference between this wording of Article 339 and the wording of Article 338. We believe that this is a technical error and that if we really wanted to insert an attack, this aggravating factor had to be written in a clearer way. The text before us, in our opinion, is very difficult to interpret and can give rise to the possibility of punishing the same behavior twice. Consequently, in view of the few words I have allowed myself to make to the House, we shall abstain on all the votes on Rule 3. [[Applause from Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u52	LO MORO (PD). Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to make my thoughts on Article 3 more explicit, also with the aim of responding to the comments made by Mr Palma, as well as to those we have heard echoing in this House these days. The ratio of the measure to our examination, in my opinion, is easily understandable. The heart of the measure is Article 1, i.e. the new wording of Article 338 of the Criminal Code, which provides for violence or direct threat to a component of a political, administrative or judicial body, as well as to the whole body, as it was previously regulated. This means that this crime includes all violent actions and intimidation that have a clear purpose: to bend the will of the administrator. So, intimidation has the goal of getting something. For example, when a building concession has already been issued, intimidation may have the objective of obtaining its revocation or, if there has been a refusal, of obtaining the concession. But the goal is always to bend the administrator's will. When, on the other hand, there is talk of aggravating, there is talk of a retrosive nature because in that case there is no longer this objective. The act has run out. There was, for example, the demolition of an abusive property. In this case, the owner or owner who is affected by this action, which is absolutely legitimate of the administrator, performs a retaliation. He does not aim to bend the administrator, but to punish him in his own way and reacts in a criminal way, for example by burning his car. There is a difference, because in the first case - I refer to Article 338 - we are now in the presence of a multi-offensive crime, severely punished up to seven years of imprisonment. With this measure we argue that the injured person is no longer only the administrator intended as a person and his assets, but the administration and the public thing. We are therefore seriously punishing this case. In the case of a retortive act, however, it cannot be thought that it is the same case, because in this case the reaction is towards the administrator, but without the objective of bending the will because the act is exhausted. A simple aggravating factor has therefore been envisaged in order not to leave out of the regulatory forecast the act of retorsion, which does not aim to bend the will of the public administration. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u55	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, I would ask that I sign all the amendments tabled by my group's colleagues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u58	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I agree with Mr Lo Moro's speech when he refers to a local administrator who is being retorted for taking a measure. However, we are also talking about legislators. Let us say that the threat is addressed to the Member of Parliament after Parliament has passed a law, which is already published in the Official Journal. From what do we protect the parliamentarians or, for example, the magistrate when he has already adopted a sentence? I take this opportunity to say that the speech is valid if applied to administrators, whereas it is not so for parliamentarians and magistrates. The next amendment - which I will not ask for the floor again - concerns Members and judges. The two articles referred to in the amendment concern personal injury (I refer to the case where someone sees a personal injury caused by a disease, or destroy, disperse or deteriorate property). When a Member of Parliament or a Magistrate, for a law that he has passed or a judgment that he has adopted, is personally assaulted or the machine is burned, I can understand that in these two cases the case of retaliation can make sense. This is not the case in other cases, because someone has to explain to me what is the retortive nature of the threat to a Member or a magistrate for something that has already been approved or adopted. This is nonsense. So, especially with regard to Members of Parliament, I believe that, once again, it is wise to limit the novelty of the case only to aggression and harm and not to those who trespass in the right of opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u59	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,300/4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,300/4, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 3,300/5, tabled by Senator Giovanardi, until the words: "the word: "political". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3300/6 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,300/7.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u62	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Madam President, I am speaking because frankly I do not understand the spirit of Amendment 3,300/7. In our system, Parliament and the exercise of its parliamentary function are particularly protected, indeed to the freedom to exercise its parliamentary function, the Constitution and the Constitutions dedicate even the wording of Article 68, as Senator Giovanardi has also mentioned today; therefore, freedom to exercise the parliamentary function as the good and value of the law, constitutionally protected, which it receives in the penal code, as we know before the approval of the Constitution and the Republic, a specific protection which is the one consecrated in the article we are dealing with. Today we are debating an aggravating hypothesis for a number of crimes that are also particularly serious, because they are crimes of violence and harm. There is no longer any prediction of the crime of defamation; it was a way in which the rapporteur raised a number of objections, in my opinion, unfounded and I would say rather fragile. However, we are faced with a possibility of worsening when these crimes, particularly serious, with content and back-up purposes are adopted against the representatives of a political body or an administrative body. It is a protection which the legal system obviously provides for in view of the need to ensure that freedom of exercise of the most delicate functions of our system, which are political and judicial, and which, following the work carried out by the Commission, is necessary to introduce into the legal system. The reason why it is necessary to exclude the possibility of contesting this aggravating factor, if the fact is committed against the representatives of the national legislative assemblies, apart from the fact that it is manifestly unconstitutional, is completely obscure. I understand that there is a delegitimation of politics, which must certainly be recovered in our country, but to think that this delegitimation invests exclusively the representatives of the National Assemblies, to the point that serious facts, of a backsliding nature, committed against them, in their damage, should not see the contestation and the application of the aggression, is an Eleusian mystery. Only one way - let me say this - of conceiving the system and its institutions, as well as the balance of the system and the protection of constitutional values can lead to an amendment of this nature. Frankly, it's incomprehensible. Then I will be told by my colleagues that it is not possible to hypothesize episodes of a backsliding nature towards a Member of Parliament. Probably, if we were to go through the chronicles of the years, not only of the Republic, but also of the previous period, we would discover how, instead, the reinforced protection, proposed by Article 338 of the Criminal Code, had a meaning, had it and would have had it if it had been taken into due consideration. What is the point of this exclusion, if not of a symbolic punishment? Probably the crime will not be contested, it will be disputed rarely, but to say that it must be written that the application of the charge against parliamentary representatives must be excluded because they will be punished for being such, it is frankly incredible. Nor is it inscribable in the political culture of the 5 Star Movement, which, on the one hand, celebrates Parliament and the freedom to exercise its parliamentary function and rightly contests electoral laws, which have prevented the reconciliation of the representation relationship between the citizens and Parliament at the time of election, and on the other, today it envisages excluding the contestability of the attack on intimidation against Members of Parliament. It is frankly incomprehensible and, beyond all that, it is totally unconstitutional, not only because it violates the principle of equality set out in Article 3, not only because it violates the principle of reasonableness, but also because it is absolutely contrary to our constitutional system, which still considers Parliament to be the heart of the system and its members are even privileged - that of the indisputability of the opinions expressed and the votes given in the exercise of their functions - which constitutes a reinforced protection of the free action of the Member in the exercise of his duties. Does this rule, then, have a symbolic or purely symbolic character? But symbolic of what? The disruption of the principles of our constitutional system [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u65	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Madam President, I apologise, but I do not accept lessons on Parliament's dignity from a component of the majority which supports a Government which does not recognize any dignity in this Parliament, with the abuse of the urgent decree [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and with abuses of all kinds, not least that of the most useless and harmful constitutional reform of the history of the Italian Republic; and that is all to say. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]] But I asked to speak for a joke, being the first signatory to this amendment. The reason is substantial and Senator Finocchiaro said: the freedom to exercise the parliamentary function is already protected. It's not my words, it's the senator's. [[Comments of Senator Finocchiaro.]] There is also a problem of method. How did we come to define this bill, President? We arrived after a year of work by a Committee of Inquiry, set up by the Senate to investigate the intimidation of local administrators; a Commission of Inquiry which has worked for a year and which has rightly held a very long series of hearings. Senator Lo Moro, how many representatives of national legislative assemblies have been audited? How many days, over a year of Commission work, have been devoted to intimidation against national politicians? Has there been any conviction within the Commission that we were going to work with a legislative intervention which also had a coverage of national political representatives? I'll tell you what, and correct me if I'm wrong: zero. It is for this reason that this amendment also restores, I believe, the unanimity of conviction and determination in approving this measure. There has been unanimity within the Commission and there can be unanimity in the Senate as well. Surely there can also be the support of the 5 Star Movement, expunging, however, the application of this measure also to the function of parliamentarians who, as Senator Finocchiaro has recalled, is already protected. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u68	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Senator Finocchiaro, more than a lesson on the dignity of Parliament, I think she has given me a lesson in law. Like it or not, we understand it or we do not understand it, the right is inspired by certain rules, some of which have constitutional value and, as such, cannot be bypassed even by demagogy. Senator Cappelletti's reasoning is unique. Since the Commission has not been interested in possible threats or violence against Members of Parliament, but only local administrators, it is not necessary to include Members of Parliament in the standard. The rules certainly arise from phenomena, but they have their own general content. And so I would like to ask Senator Cappelletti: why, for example, could this aggravating factor be addressed to the component of a regional legislative assembly and could it not, according to his amendment, be addressed to the component of a national legislative assembly? And in the protection of the freedom of mandate, to which Senator Finocchiaro referred, is it not worth remembering that one thing is general protection, which is guaranteed from the constitutional and legal point of view, and something else is reinforced protection, which often comes from criminal rules? You see, Senator Cappelletti, if it had not been the tragedy that has been, a huge tragedy for this country, and if the crime was obviously not very different from the crimes mentioned in Senator Cucca's amendment (she was perhaps too young), it would be appropriate to remember the story of a party leader, in that case assassinated, certainly not threatened and not injured, who found his death after days and days of kidnapping, just for having exercised his mandate and his functions as a Member of Parliament in a certain way. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Misto, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, AL-A (MpA), LN-Aut, CoR and GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL).]] And you don't think, Senator Cappelletti... Sorry, Madam President, I wonder if Senator Cappelletti believes that, probably the demagogy that partly inspires his amendment [[Comments of Senator Bulgarelli]] Is it not a demagogy of little account, which obviously clashes with those legal principles that have been repeatedly recalled? Finally, I ask you, because the rules go on and often do not die because of legislative changes: when, if ever, constitutional reform should come into force and there should be the Senate as it was designed there, would you not find it strange that the future senator can enjoy, by reason of another qualification, this enhanced protection, while instead the House Member would not? In my opinion - and I conclude, Madam President - when demagogy is being legislated it must be put aside and it should simply be reasoned that it has a meaning within a legal system, even where the legal system is known. It is for this reason that, with reference only to this vote, the Forza Italia Group will vote against amendment 3,300/7. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u69	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,300/7, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,300 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u72	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, can we please have the final text of Amendment 3,300 (text 2)?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u73	I call on the rapporteur to reread the amendment, remembering that the written text will be distributed, so that the House can have full confidence in the reworded text.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u74	I have read the proposed rewording: "Unless the fact constitutes a more serious crime, the penalties imposed for the crimes provided for in Articles 582, 610, 612 and 635" - of course of the penal code - have increased from one third to half if the conduct is of a retortive nature and is committed to the detriment of a member of a political, administrative or judicial body due to the fulfilment of an act in the performance of the mandate, duties or service."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u75	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,300 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur, which is entirely a replacement for the article. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3,200 to 3,207 are not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.200, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u76	Amendment 4.0,200 aims to establish the Observatory on the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators and I call on colleagues to assess their scope and their acceptance. The same is true of Amendment 4.0.201, which is also my first signature, which extends to the victims of the crimes we are talking about the possibility of accessing the Rotation Fund for solidarity with the victims of crime of the mafia type, extortion and usury. I think that this is also a shared measure, which can be very well linked to the legislation on the protection of local administrators, which we are about to vote on.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u77	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u78	I am against Amendment 4,200. I would need clarification on Amendment 4.0,200, on which I intend to propose a rewording. I would like to point out that the Observatory has already been established by Ministerial Decree of 2 July 2015. However, since it has been established with a secondary standard, we can - if we wish - also establish it with a primary standard, but a rewording would be necessary: in essence we consecrate in this standard the work that has already been done with the ministerial decree that I have just recalled. The following rewording would therefore be necessary, of which I would like to read: In order to promote the best implementation of the prevention and law enforcement measures, the modalities - not of institution - are defined by decree of the Ministry of the Interior, because they already exist - of the functioning of the Observatory on the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators, established by decree of the Minister of Interior 2 July 2015. The remainder of the amendment should remain unchanged, but I would point out that paragraph 2 of fact repeats this wording; it will possibly be drawn up after the adoption.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u79	I would point out that there is a procedural condition laid down by the Budget Commission, referred to in paragraph 3, which calls for the word "existing" to be replaced by the following financial provisions already laid down in existing legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u80	I make the proposal for the reformulation of the budget committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u81	Senator Buccarella, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u82	Madam President, yes, I have listened and have no objection to rewording. On this occasion I would also like to know the opinion on Amendment 4.0.201.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u83	Madam President, on Amendment 4.0.201 I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u84	Colleagues, on Amendment 4.0,200 there is, however, a need for coordination of the text between paragraphs 1 and 2. I therefore propose that we put it aside.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u85	Madam President, the opinion on the amendments to Article 4 is in line with that of the rapporteur. I take advantage of this opportunity to express the Government's appreciation for the work carried out by the Committee of Inquiry; I appreciate the extent to which the Government has decided to implement the work of that Commission, promptly setting up the Observatory. I wanted to say this, and that is why we support Amendment 4.0.200 (text 2), which gives primary regulatory coverage to what the Commission has already done, also as a result of its active participation in the work of the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u86	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,200, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u89	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Madam President, in the last vote I mistakenly voted against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u92	CUCCA, rapporteur. Madam President, paragraph 2 is proposed for amendment 4.0.200 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u93	I propose that we anticipate the vote on the next amendment, proceed to the final explanations of vote and then, before the final vote, deal with this additional amendment, so that we can be sure of the text. I therefore refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.201, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Giovanardi, what are you going to do with the Tit.1 amendment proposing a change in the title? GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u96	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I may not have understood correctly, but there is an amendment that has been put aside...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u97	An amendment requiring the inclusion of an additional article. SANTANGELO (M5S). And you want to proceed with explanations of vote? I don't think so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, ladies and gentlemen, let's suspend the sitting briefly. (The sitting was suspended at 10.57 a.m. and resumed at 11.11 a.m.) Let's get back to work. I have read the rewording of the additional amendment 4.0.200, which is being distributed: ==References====External links== In order to facilitate the best implementation of the prevention and law enforcement measures, the composition and operating procedures of the Observatory on the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators are defined by decree of the Minister of Interior 2 July 2015, to which the following tasks are assigned: Points (a), (b) and (c) shall remain unchanged. Paragraph 2 is deleted, while paragraph 3 is reworded as follows: For the purposes referred to in paragraph 1, the use of human, instrumental and financial resources already provided for in current legislation shall be carried out. The implementation of this Article shall not result in new or increased public finance charges. Senator Buccarella, do you accept this reformulation? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, Madam President, I accept the rewording. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the representative of the Government to comment on this rewording. CHIAVAROLI, State Secretary for Justice. I give a favourable opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.200 (text 2), tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u100	ZIZA (CoR). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are on an important date and we are finally moving on to this important issue. I, like other colleagues, have been a member of the Commission on the phenomenon of intimidation and we have done an excellent job. I would like to thank all those who have participated with me in this work, which has enabled us to understand well the problems connected with this reality. 11:14 a.m. (ZIZZA followed). Moreover, many of us have also had experience as local administrators and who, like me, has been directly affected by these intimidations can understand well the feeling that a local administrator feels when he is intimidated and especially when he is brought to general attention the series of reasons why these phenomena happen. It becomes increasingly difficult for a local administrator today to administer knowing that he is not being protected. Now the mayors, the councilors and the councilors are real front offices and represent the State on the territory. They raise all the most important problems, from employment issues to the granting of permits: we are talking about important authorisations, in many cases those on state property areas, which are in fact not always the subject of very clear interests. So, anyone who has experienced this experience knows how this bill can be a first important goal to achieve. Basically, as in all things, we could do better and more, but we, as the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, note that there is a strong political will on the part of the whole Parliament to finally give a chance to these administrators who are at the forefront every day and ask to be protected. So there are all the reasons and we believe that there are also all the conditions for this measure to be adopted immediately. So we, as the Conservative and Reformist Group, will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u103	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a handful of days after a major round of local elections today we are called here today to adopt a draft law which represents the precipitate of an important and necessary work carried out by the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators. On 5 June, not only did important cities such as Milan, Naples and Rome vote again, for example, in municipalities where the tentacles of the underworld and criminal organizations had, as it were, suspended the time and place where democracy consumes its rites of electoral operations, de facto depriving entire communities of their ordinary elective representation. The work and effort made by the Commission comes and bases its own constitutional reasons at a time when there has been a real escalation of intimidating phenomena towards local administrators. These phenomena, as highlighted in the hearings and in the various missions carried out by the Commission itself, are expressed in different ways, develop with different practices, are implemented and pursued tending to limit the exercise of the functions of directors, to condition their political choices, trampling and violating that freedom that is the basis of the democratic choice of our country. Just this morning, at the headquarters of the National Federation of Italian Press here in Rome, a press conference for the presentation of the First national march of directors under fire recently opened. The march is organized by Public Notice and will take place in the province of Reggio Calabria next 24 June. It is an event organized for the first time in Italy and is the response of a healthy and vigorous activism that reacts: it opposes this growing trend of threats, intimidation and violence against women and men who, from North to South, govern local administrations, opposing the interests of crime. This is a phenomenon, in fact, that does not follow the classic and atavistic dichotomy that sees our country broken in two, although the black jersey of this primacy, is certainly to be attributed, if we can say so, to Sicily, Puglia and Calabria. The legislator, it is necessary to acknowledge it, has therefore done more than good to photograph, isolate and block all those cases that risked not to remain sanctionable from our order. But in addition to this important effort, it remains the still fundamental and non-derogable one of the important presence of the State in the territories because the local administrators are at the same time first expression and then direct terminal of the presence of the State in the territories and we cannot continue to witness phenomena, justified by the so-called reorganization according to mere logics of spending review, of real and proper withdrawal of the State from the localities and territories that instead need the preventive action and deterrent that belongs to the State. In fact, the rise of these intimidating phenomena hatches under the ashes of an economic and social crisis that crime tends to want to ride or turn to its own interests. It is therefore necessary to continue to combine different policies involving different levels in order finally to eradicate this scourge which poisons a direct terminal of our order. All the work carried out by the Commission is therefore worthy of praise for having contributed not only to affirming the authority of the State but also to seeking the means to implement the protection and defence of those who are called to exercise the functions of the State, of those who are called to represent it. We are faced with an effort of synthesis and wise balance which provides new instruments of protection for those who represent with considerable courage the public administration, the judicial authority and the local authorities, beyond therefore the still perfectible, in my opinion, Article 3, despite the chasms sought with the proposal of the rapporteur. That is why I am convinced that my staff and my group are in favour. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u106	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, on the one hand, I must express my satisfaction with the issue of defamation, on which we have tabled amendments and on which we have also fought in the Commission. I say this to the friends of the 5 Star Movement: when in the Commission I proposed to expunge the crime of defamation from the measure, unfortunately everyone voted against, including the 5 Star Movement. I would remind you that the parliamentary dialectic also serves to sharpen the positions and, progressively, the Commission's negative vote has become a Parliament of all people's conviction that the case of defamation should be expunged. This seems to me to be a positive result, which has taken account not only of our positions, but also of the reactions that have been made in terms of public opinion and the press. Therefore, for my part there is satisfaction because we have arrived at a positive result, but also dissatisfaction with how the provision comes out of the Senate. It has been recalled - at this point I have to agree with my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - that the Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators has been interested in this tragic phenomenon for months and is unanimously agreed on the need to strengthen the protection of local administrators directly subjected to threats and intimidation and that sometimes they have also lost their lives; but how often has the Commission been interested in parliamentarians or magistrates? And why, suddenly, are the rules for the protection of local administrators being extended to Members and judges? And how are they extended? Our concern is the introduction of criminal sanctions that can become liberticide, affecting the freedom of opinion of citizens and movements. 11:25 a.m. (Follows YOUNG PEOPLE). Here is a very delicate passage from the past. I remember that Article 338 of the penal code establishes a very precise thing (we talk about the threat and let alone the violence, on which we all agree): "Anyone who uses (...) a threat to a political, administrative or judicial body (...) to prevent, in whole or in part, even temporarily, or to disturb their activity (...)" The provision is therefore very precise. Instead, we use the words: "at the same penalty", with the consequence that it is criminally responsible even those who commit the threat. What is the threat? I went to check, because colleagues need to be aware of what we are talking about. For the Court of Cassation the threat is to point the finger at a person and say: "I'll make you pay!" It's a threat to say: "You don't know who I am." That's the threat the penal code is talking about. We have foreseen that at the same penalty those who want to obstruct or prevent a legislative act and commit the crime even after the act has been adopted. I have referred to some committees organized on the territory that, in my opinion, threaten them politically by saying that they are contesting a certain legislative measure and by telling the government or a party that they will send him home, they will make him pay for it and they will remember it. According to the Court of Cassation, all these sentences are menace. There is therefore the combination between the threat, as interpreted by the Court of Cassation, and the provision under consideration, which establishes - this is the novelty - that it is punishable by those who criticize a legislative measure even after it has been adopted. In addition, we have also added back nature in the famous article 3 from which, fortunately, we have expounded the case of defamation. Twisting threat means: "We're gonna make you pay for it, you've taken a measure that's not right for us, so we're gonna make you pay for it." My colleagues say that it will then be the Court of Cassation that decides and the magistrates to determine whether, once you have been denounced, the threat was there or not (later, you will then, for example, be sentenced to first instance and acquitted on appeal, and then arrive at the Court of Cassation). However, we are restricting freedom. Why am I not happy? I am pleased with the slander, but was it not enough for Members and magistrates when there is an attack or damage (i.e. when there really is something appreciable to protect their freedom or their property)? The example of the car burned has been mentioned; of course the Member, the magistrate or the administrator to whom the car is burned must have protection. I would remind you, however, that the entrepreneur to whom the machine is burned should also have protection. It is not clear why the MEP should have greater protection in these situations than the citizen, the trader, the entrepreneur who burns the car or is the victim of an intimidating act. Protection could only be limited to acts such as damage or aggression, which are appreciable. We did an operation on Article 3, along with Article 1, liberticide. We continue to make legal measures that extend criminal protection and provide aggravating measures that border with the right of opinion, with criticism, which can be trade union, of a movement, of a single and even heavy or, it can be a political threat that must be appreciated as such and not with a criminally responsible connotation. What we have written in Article 1 referring to legislation, i.e. hitting those who threaten even when the measure has already been taken, means putting themselves on a dangerous plane that has already seen rules that have then been changed in practice and have caused a restriction of freedom in our country. We have said these things and supported them. We are satisfied because at least on defamation it has been understood that speaking of defamatory retaliation, in the sense that a newspaper or a movement of ideas, an organized form can contest the goodness or disvalue of a measure, was a slippery ground that would lead to a further limitation of freedom. We are not satisfied with the way the measure under consideration has been written. We agree with Mr Sisto, who has pointed out from the Chamber points on freedom of expression, an area that has always been sacred in our country. You have to explain to me why in 2016, after seventy years of democracy and constitution, in the face of a phenomenon of re-emergence of attacks and intimidation against local administrators, instead of having given a response in defence of these administrators, we invent criminal rules, aggravating in defense of parliamentarians, even against those who threaten Parliament. I repeat that if the threats are those that I read in the texts of the Court of Cassation - I will charge you - or you do not know who I am - and they are threatening crimes that we apply to the criticism made to Parliament and its measures, we are fresh. We will see some good things at the judicial level and for the umpteenth time we will bring a dialectic that must be parliamentary, between the citizens, Parliament and its representatives, in the courtrooms. This does not seem to me to be a great step forward and therefore, for these reasons, my Group will abstain from voting on this measure. [[Applause from Senator Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u109	FALANGA (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, the main issue that emerged this morning in this House is essentially a technical one, that is, the comparison was of a technical nature, because on the substance of the measure I think there were no serious differences. It was a question of whether the bill had been correctly imagined and conceived through a surgical operation on Article 338, i.e. whether Article 336 of the Criminal Code should be amended. For the truth, the confrontation that has developed, in particular with the observations proposed by Senators Palma and Caliendo, seems to me a false problem, because the objective and the aim were the same whether it had intervened on Article 338 or 336. Moreover, the differential diagnosis between these two articles has already been examined by the Court of Cassation which, in a 2012 judgment, considered the rule laid down in Article 338 also applicable to the individual component of a political body. A clarification exercise was undertaken to avoid further differentiations or different orientations on the point. I, to be honest, have never loved the petrification of law. I have always been very far from what has been called originalism, i.e. the strict and limited possibility for the interpreter to interpret the norm. A possible culture of this kind even reminds me of 533 after Christ, when Justinian promulgated his Digesta, which, in fact, provided for a rigorous interpretation. But - since you smile, colleagues of the League - I also remind you of the Code Napoléon. Napoleon had to say, reading a commentary from a jurist: My code is lost. Finally, even Hitler imagined a future that would completely marginalize lawyers, i.e. those who interpreted the norm. The scope of the judge's interpretation must be as broad as possible in a completed democracy. In the present case, there was already a case-law approach which went in the direction of finding the sanction provided for in Article 338 of the Criminal Code applicable not only to the political body but also to each of its individual components. Senator Lo Moro, together with the Committee of Inquiry, has considered that this conduct should be consecrated under Article 338, and the surgery done seems to me not to be dirty but consistent with what has been going on in recent times. You see, the right must be adequate. I remind you that in 1930 the crime of obscene acts was introduced in our code in a public place, and that rule is still in force in our order. Someone, however, must tell me whether what was then defined and sanctioned as an obscene act is still subject to the same sanction today. Therefore interpretation is necessary, because it adapts to the times. Now, in the last period - and we have seen this through the Commission of Inquiry - acts of intimidation against local administrators have been put in place. Someone says, what does the politician have to do with it? But if Realacci goes to Naples, because of his thesis of energetic opposition to the bill No 580 presented in 2013, which provided for a graduation in the killing of abusive artifacts, I think that more than a threat he could even be the subject of acts of violence, precisely for his political activity. So what does Giovanardi say have to do with the fact that the parliamentarians' bodies already enjoy protection? It's got nothing to do with it. If the activity of a subject who is part of a political body goes to counter the interests of anyone, that person can well carry out acts of intimidation or retaliation against him, and the bill to our examination has foreseen one and the other, also through the aggravating drawings. President Palma lets himself go in exquisitely technical-juridical arguments, which are appreciable, for goodness sake. Who does not recognize President Palma's ability to speak of law? He, however, then approaches the culture of originalism, which has been abandoned and has never taken hold in the field of law. It has taken on more perhaps in the musical field, where practically the interpretation sometimes becomes something philological. I am therefore surprised that President Palma is abandoning himself to considerations which, in fact, are more a court of justice than a Chamber of Parliament. Our will as legislator was to sanction conduct aimed at intimidating and threatening and retaliatory attitudes towards all. On the subject of the Buccarella amendment, Senator Finocchiaro was truly majestic in explaining the arguments that opposed what the Senator said. I merely make a much simpler point: what difference does the national legislator and the regional legislator have? In other words, if the rule is to be applied also for acts against the regional legislator, then it is not clear why the national law should be excluded. I express my appreciation for Senator Lo Moro who, since the beginning of this legislature, has worked on this subject, also through a survey carried out on the territory. The measure under consideration is not a legend that comes out by chance, as sometimes happens, but it is the result of an attention on what happens on the territory; it is an update of Article 338 of the penal code; it is a precision from the purely technical point of view, to see it applied beyond the jurisprudential orientation already appeared on the horizon. An operation of this kind has therefore been carried out, which is welcome. It has been said - for example by Senators Caliendo and Palma - that we could intervene on Article 336. Gentlemen, what would be the difference? Why intervene on Article 336 and not on Article 338? We must aim for this. The legislator must aim at the objective and cannot let go and abstain from voting, because it was intended that this provision should be included in Article 336 rather than Article 338. I do not think that this position is authoritative, I do not appreciate it, and I do not think that I can adapt to such a course of action. I therefore welcome my Group's vote in favour of the draft law before us.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u112	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, a little late in the day, we come to adopt a very long-awaited bill. The parliamentary committee of inquiry has been very useful in detecting regulatory shortcomings. And thanks to the work it has done - in this sense, I would like to thank the President for the work and the in-depth work done - we have come to examine a phenomenon that, in some ways, seemed limited to a part of Italy and that now, almost like an appentinating virus, is also developing on those lands where it was not thought could be reached. Unfortunately, intimidation of the administrator or the political body is a sadly widespread phenomenon, as has been pointed out by data I referred to during the general discussion, which show actually worrying and disturbing numbers. Although, in some respects, statistical data refer to some typical conducts - such as the bullet delivered in an envelope, explosive devices, threatening letters, car fires - unfortunately they may have very broad profiles, which the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry has been careful to examine, in order to draw up a bill which may include cases which would otherwise not be punishable. We must remember in particular that such intimidation is directed towards the mayors, who constitute the highest representation of political activity, if by policy we mean the representation of a territory. The mayor, today, is the true hero of the institutions, because he is at the head of a community that demands and demands the solution of problems for which he often has no suitable means. Let us therefore think of the very high task of being the first meeting point between the citizen and the institutional apparatus, which starts precisely from the Municipality and reaches the Regions, up to the State. At this first window, the citizen turns to ask for help and support; to it the enterprises ask for solutions, which sometimes is unable to give, also because of the repeated cuts in transfers in favour of the municipalities and the bonds of the Stability Pact, which have made the mayors feel almost like the commissioners of their own municipality. However, these men who are at the forefront are made the subject of all the varied forms of threats and intimidation that the criminal mind can formulate, sometimes with great imagination. In this case we are talking about actions aimed at intimidating in order to obtain favourable measures or avoid unfavourable ones. As President Callipo, the national coordinator for youth ANCI, said, the institutions must be at the side of the mayors, who must not be alone in the activity they carry out, so that the state apparatus itself is not perceived almost as an enemy, where the institutions should be felt as a point of support that acts in their favour. In this sense, there is a need for legislation: the activity of the administrator must be free, but in the sense of pursuing not the interests of the individual, but the public interest. And that means that it must not be subjected to any form of criminal solicitation, such as petty intimidation. We are therefore faced with the formulation of a draft law which - as we have also said in the general debate - we share in part. We fully agree with the provisions of Article 1, which improves the regulatory scope of Article 338 of the Criminal Code, which already "covers', considering criminal cases, conducts constituting threats and violence against administrators or members of the political and judicial body to prevent or disturb their activity. We also share the view that the same sentence, from one to seven years, also applies to those who commit these facts in order to obtain, hinder or prevent the release or adoption of any measure, or because of the issue or adoption of it. We are therefore talking about previous behaviours and behaviors which follow the measures taken by the administrative body. On the other hand, we have concerns about the content of Article 3. Nor is it understood why this rule was intended to be included in the original text, which was completely unacceptable, as it referred to the conduct of threat, defamation, injury and damage to a member of a political, administrative or judicial body as a result of his mandate. It is obvious that, despite the outcome of the vote, from the reading of this rule appeared and appears to the citizen there is almost a form of benefit to those in office such as political, judicial or an administrator, as if those who go to violate these political or administrative bodies should be punished even more severely. The crime must always be punished and it must not be relevant if it is committed against a politician or not: we are all the same. Unfortunately, there is a danger that there may be a bad interpretation of the norm or, worse, its exploitation. When we go to vote, in fact, we must know that we are faced with a state, with an apparatus also of judicial type that, with the interpretation - as has been pointed out also by Senator Palma - could create problems in application. In fact already Article 339-bis of the Criminal Code provides for conduct that may fall within the discipline referred to in Article 338 and in this form almost duplication may raise very strong doubts. And the same reasoning also applies when a course of conduct is to be described as retortive or not, whether or not it falls within the exercise of the mandate. In order to avoid any doubt in our opinion this provision had to be completely eliminated and not only limited to the crime of defamation towards the political body. We must certainly honour the rapporteur for grasping the existence of a problem of defamation against a political body. However, everything else is badly supported and embedded in the system. All you had to do was keep the first part. Although we agree with the arrangement, the system and the will underlying the measure, being firmly convinced that the rule that provides for intimidation against the administrative bodies and our mayors must be approved, unfortunately we consider the text still polluted by provisions that can be misinterpreted and exploited. That is why the Group of the North Legacy will abstain. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u115	PAGE (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the measure before the House cannot but be welcomed by those who stand alongside those political leaders, those public officials and those magistrates who every day, in the more or less extreme outskirts of this country, give providential strength to our democracy, rejecting the pressures of new and old criminal powers. More and more often, in fact, the individual members of a political, administrative or judicial body are made the subject of intolerable intimidating acts, simply for having performed their duty at the service of the institutions, for having demanded the respect of the law, for not having accepted logic clientele or exchange of favors. There are about 1,265 mayors who suffer threats in Italy during the execution of their mandate. In particular, municipalities with small and medium population density are targeted. These data are extracted from the Public Notice and are included in the final report approved in 2015 by the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators, of which I have been a member. The most affected regions are Sicily, Puglia, Calabria, Sardinia and Liguria. The numbers could still be higher if you consider administrators who don't report for fear of further retaliation. The National Observatory on Intimidating Acts against Local Administrators, set up at the Ministry of the Interior to carry out and exploit the work carried out by the Commission of Inquiry, completed the monitoring of complaints for the whole of 2014 and put in place the system of annual surveys carried out every 30 June and 31 December through prefectures. The analysis of the data on the intimidating acts denounced from 2013 to 2015 confirms that the phenomenon affects all Italy. 2014 marks 19.4% more complaints than in 2013 (674 to 805), while in 2015 there was a 23.1 percent decrease compared to 2014 (619 complaints). The daily news records the vast repertoire of threats to local administrators, ranging from physical or verbal attacks to threatening letters, from warnings via telephone or social media to car fires, from personal property damage to the killing of pets. The last serious episode in order of time was the armed aggression to Giuseppe Antoci, president of the Park of the Nebrodi, who for years has been fighting the evil and the bad interests related to the obtaining and the illegal exploitation of those territories and the public resources that are connected to them. The mob attack with gunshots was rejected thanks to the professionalism and courage of the men of the escort of President Antoci, to whom our heartfelt thanks go. In the face of these incidents, the institutions must not fail to give concrete and effective support to those who, in order to contribute to the defense of order and the promotion of legality, suffer threats or retortive actions. In this respect, once again we welcome the proposal to set up a special Commission of Inquiry into this phenomenon, which we have appreciated the work done and the results produced, including the draft law before us. I would particularly like to thank Senator Lo Moro for her commitment and competence, but above all for the way she has conducted her work in the Commission. In the same way, the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior must be warmly welcomed, which led - as mentioned earlier - to the establishment of the National Observatory on intimidation against local administrators. This body, founded in 2015, met for the first time in February and saw the participation of Minister Alfano, the leaders of the Dicastery and representatives of local authorities, including the presidents of the ANCI and the Union of Italian Provinces. In addition to the aforementioned monitoring, the activities of the Observatory, aimed at proposing actions aimed at the territories, concern the deepening of the causes of intimidation in the various local realities. These surveys are carried out by giving an impersonal and indirect questionnaire to local administrators to intercept the environmental situation and the level of perception. The proximity of the State to the representatives of the institutions is also realized by the activation, in the prefectures, of provincial sections of the Observatory, supplemented by the territorial summits of the Forces of the Order, the local administrators and possibly, depending on the situation, by representatives of other institutions and associations. These initiatives of the institutions are accompanied by a decisive action on the field by the Forces of the Order and the magistrates, as evidenced by the operation coordinated a few days ago by the District Directorate anti-Mafia of Messina, which struck with twenty-two orders of protective measures own a mafia cosca operating in the Nebrodi area, dedicated to extortion, traffic and drug dealing. This must, however, be accompanied by an adaptation of criminal law, so that those who fight the Mafia every day have the appropriate means to repress and sanction these conducts. And the bill in it was designed for this very reason: to revise the penal code in order to innovate the ways of combating organized crime and create new and more effective deterrents against violence to the servants of the State and the representatives of the institutions. In fact, the draft law provides new instruments of protection for those who represent with commendable courage the public administration, the judicial authority and the local authorities, introducing an appropriate amendment to Article 338 of the penal code, which constitutes the crime of violence or threat to a political, administrative or judicial body, in order to sanction those who make themselves the author of such conduct also to the detriment of a single representative of these categories. It introduces the possibility of arrest in flagrante for those who commit such crime; it constitutes an aggravating circumstance with special effect of crimes of personal injury, of private violence, of threat, of damage if they are committed as retaliation against a member of a political, administrative or judicial body fulfilling his mandate, his duties or his service. Finally, a more effective safeguard of candidates for local electoral competitions is envisaged. This measure represents the necessary regulatory complement to the policies and actions in support of the institutions described so far. It is a well-structured, linear and effective bill that provides the state's operators, who are fighting on the territories to fight against evil of all kinds, the most useful and appropriate instruments and safeguards. For all these reasons I announce the vote in favour of the People's Area Group. [[Applause from Senator Torrisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u118	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement would have a thousand reasons to vote in favour of this bill. Already in the Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation to local administrators, our colleagues shared, together with all the other members, the desire to dismiss a text that finally provides legislative measures to protect the numerous intimidation or back-up episodes to the detriment of local administrators. In fact, the very title of the bill that has been received in the Chamber - it should be remembered - speaks of provisions on combating intimidation against local administrators. We would also have reason to vote in favour because, as always, we in the Commission have given our contribution to improving the situation. Even more significantly, we have also debated and voted on some of the amendments tabled by our political group in this House today. We welcomed the decision of the rapporteur and the government to expunge the crime of defamation among the aggravating assumptions provided for in the new article 339- bis because, even with all the shared considerations of the initial intention, we would still risk limiting the right of criticism of the citizen, of the press, of journalists. This was also an improvement that we welcomed. From our point of view, it is necessary for the legislation to be adopted as soon as possible and, above all, for the amendment of Article 338, i.e. the protection of individual members of the political and administrative collegial bodies, so that it is effective for a phenomenon that is becoming increasingly widespread. Moreover, in view of the increase - also wanting to speak from a purely political Group point of view - of the number of local administrators of the 5 Star Movement throughout Italy - we are not better than the others - who often find themselves opposed to initiatives that often move behind untransparent interests, we want to protect all the representatives of the people at local level. In our small, given the number of administrators of the 5 Star Movement present today, intimidating and torsive acts have already happened. No question about the point. The only argument that puts us in trouble, that has not seen our accession and has become the subject of attacks according to the old mantra of the demagogic position, is the extension of the attack on crimes of private violence, threats, personal injury and damage also to the category of parliamentarians. Our position is not dictated by a self-flagelling or self-punitive sense, to which President Finocchiaro referred when he charged us with a demagogic position, to strike Members in advance by identifying in them a privileged caste. Objectively - as Mr Cappelletti has already said - we do not see that, in the year of work carried out by the Commission of Inquiry, an intimidating or back-up phenomenon has emerged towards Members of Parliament. No audition has ever represented this need. And the example made by Senator Palma - he wanted to teach his colleague Cappelletti from the top of his political and human experience - of the case of a political exponent of the very first plan kidnapped and then killed, frankly appears absolutely out of place. That was a murder carried out by terrorist organisations, while in this case we are talking about intimidating or retortative acts committed against municipal councillors and mayors who have the courage to make difficult decisions and perhaps take positions in conflict with mafia powers, paramafia or related to the evil. So, the example set by Senator Palma is frankly unrelated to what we're talking about. In the same way, your question - when you addressed Senator Cappelletti, about our unaccepted amendment - is not relevant as to what we would have in the case of the final adoption of constitutional reforms. We would have parasenators, in fact regional advisers, covered by what is neither immunity nor privilege, but rather an aggravating arrangement for certain crimes that these political components should suffer. And Senator Palma said instead that Members of the House would be dissuaded of this kind of protection. Again, if we were to make this argument to the contrary, we should object that, even if the reform were to pass, those regional advisers who would take the role of senators would be in a different position than their colleagues who would remain at the Regional Council. In short, they are all comments that convinced us to believe that the extension to Members of Parliament of the protection of the charge for the crimes that were to be suffered is without any concrete necessity. If we were faced with similar cases, we would not refrain from considering the need for this type of protection. It's not like that. Therefore, while we agree with the overall arrangement, with the amendment of Article 338, and also trusting that the parliamentary passage is even faster in the other branch of Parliament, our vote, more for a political message, will abstain on the measure. And it will be for this very reason that, although we have had the opportunity in this House, with amendments that we have proposed, it has not been approved, that is, the one that extends the attack also on the crimes committed to the detriment of Members. We must concentrate our efforts on what was the initial intention, the one contained in the very title of the draft law: to protect municipal councillors, mayors, perhaps even regional councillors, the Presidents of the Regions who are the subject of intimidating or retortive acts. That must be done and that will be enough. For the rest, for the reasons I hope to have briefly explained, the vote of the 5 Star Movement will be abstaining. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u121	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I too, as a member of the Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators, would like to congratulate the Commission and, in particular, its President, Senator Lo Moro. This is one of the few cases in which the work of a Commission of Inquiry led to the birth of a legislative measure, in the sense that it not only verified the situation, but also, following the numerous hearings that have taken place, made its action concrete with the proper recognition of the work done by the local administrators. I believe that this is the fundamental aspect. And I would remind you that this is an initiative, not of the Government, but of Parliament. This is once again the proof, if need be, that when there is a political will, beyond the party position, Parliament is able to legislate, even if the government's favourable opinion has been superimposed on it. I would also like to point out that the whole of the Forza Italia Group has taken part in the Commission of Inquiry and supported the draft law, so much so that it is signed by the members of the Commission of Inquiry of the Forza Italia Group. What is happening today and which has appeared in the Commission of Inquiry is a framework which was and is, to say the least, alarming of this phenomenon, which shows a clear territorial differentiation, both in relation to the number of incidents that have occurred and the incidence of the different motives of intimidation actions. It is a real problem and amply felt by the local administrators, who have asked, on several occasions and now too long, for concrete measures. In fact, so far we have always seen the proximity of all political forces, but there has never been a concrete manifestation of closeness. One of the main causes of the phenomenon of intimidation to administrators lies in the climate of distrust, which is increasingly strong, of citizens towards institutions, which is also to be traced back to the growing economic problems that our country is still, unfortunately, dramatically living, as well as to the waste of public money by some minorities of administrators and inefficient administrations, as well as corrupting phenomena. In the same way, this phenomenon is due to the paradoxical situation in which local administrators are living, who have increasing responsibilities, but unfortunately they are often deprived of adequate powers and, above all, of resources to meet the needs of their citizens and their administrators. In fact, the citizens who are faced with these - in some cases - State inertias, come to claim that it is the local authorities, which are the institutions closest to the citizen, that solve all their problems. And in cases where even mayors, city councilors and city councilors are not able to give concrete answers, this inevitably leads to a growth of citizens' distrust of local administrators and therefore indirectly towards politics. Over the past 40 years, more than 130 murders of local administrators have taken place. It is remembered that the worst period were the eighties, which saw 80 deaths, especially in Sicily, Campania and Calabria. Unfortunately, this phenomenon continues to continue over time. Still in 2013 the murders of Laura Prati, mayor of Cardano al Campo (so not of a municipality located in Sicily or Calabria, but in some of the most developed regions from an economic point of view), and Alberto Musy, councilman of Turin. All local administrators, murdered either by the mafia or by crime, terrorism and even by their fellow citizens who had come to regard them as a real obstacle to their needs and expectations. The phenomenon of intimidation unfortunately sees a growing trend: in 2013 and in the first quarter of 2014 more than 1,200 cases of intimidation were reported. The most affected regions are Sicily, Apulia, Calabria, Sardinia and Liguria, while in other regions the phenomenon is almost non-existent, but it begins to manifest itself in some regions particularly advanced in the social and economic fabric, such as Lombardy, Piedmont and Veneto. There are various forms of intimidation to local administrators ranging from the most serious ones such as car fires or private property, the use of firearms or explosive devices, physical aggressions, to the least serious ones, such as threatening letters and phone calls, but they should not be underestimated in any way because they highlight the climate of fear and uncertainty existing among administrators. There are also, unfortunately, many cases in which there are no cases of intimidation due to the fear of possible retaliation and this affects not only administrators, but also their families and loved ones and perhaps their professional and corporate activities. This is the climate in which local administrations live. A significant proportion of the resignation from office is due to the intimidation suffered. We are talking about over 90 decrees of dissolution of municipal councils that have as cause intimidation or murders of local administrators. As said, it all comes from the ever deeper crisis of the trust relationship between citizens and elected, and this crisis is mentioned especially in small municipalities, giving rise to a real criminalization of local administrators. In small and medium municipalities, in fact, knowledge and the relationship between the administrator and the citizen are increasingly close. As a Forza Italia Group, we would have preferred the amendments to Article 336 and not to Article 338 of the penal code, as my colleagues Caliendo and Palma had argued. Having said that, the need to remedy this problem, and as soon as possible, and to give the greatest possible protection to local administrators, is also objective. As I said, the phenomenon of intimidation, threats and violence has for too long been underestimated and neglected by politics. Those who have paid the consequences have been innocent people who have seen their lives completely ruined, having the sole fault of wanting to do their job, chosen by their citizens, at the service of the community. This is the time to say enough: that it is the criminal organizations, the common crime or the simple arrogance of those who believe themselves above the law and institutions: everyone must know that the State is today closer to its administrators, to those who have chosen to serve their citizens and, in essence, to the whole country. I would now like to make one final political point: political forces should stop highlighting only the negative aspects of local administrators and politics in general. In fact, always giving voice exclusively to the negative aspects and not to the many positive aspects is not, in my opinion, the good of this country. Even today it has been so and I personally do not understand why they say that they share more than 90% of the approach of the draft law under consideration and then not for content reasons, but exquisitely political, they take different positions. It is not by dividing itself on these matters that the good of the country is done. For all these reasons, the vote of Forza Italia, beyond the critical issues that I have just highlighted, will be a favorable vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u124	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my Leader who gave me this explanation of vote and I would like to say at once that I will not take this opportunity to talk about the report because it has been discussed, it has been adopted, many have spoken about it and because today we are faced with a draft law to be discussed. With regard to the results of the report, I would just like to point out that some of the effects have already been achieved and have also been reflected in the debate in this House on this draft law. Someone mentioned hero mayors. Generally speaking, there has been a very positive response to local administrators, probably because of the political positions of the various parliamentary groups, but also because the verification and the results of the investigation have produced greater sensitivity in all of us. I say this because otherwise I could not myself understand why, until yesterday, 132 administrators were ignored killed, plus 11 relatives, that is dozens and dozens of people who have died in the last forty years while carrying out their task on the territory. Of all this there was no memory, except locally. Today, however, we realize that the phenomenon is serious and, from this point of view, I think that the report and the inquiry have allowed us all to socialize an evaluation of the phenomenon. This applies to us, members of the Senate, but also to the Government, which has followed this and which has already gone on. For example, having created the observatory is a good sign. The birth of this observatory was communicated in good time and is a good sign because it means that the work that we rightly and correctly claim as parliamentarians has not been underestimated by the Government. I'm going to the bill now. I say immediately that my explanation of vote is, of course, intended to announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour. However, I take advantage of the word to say that in the speeches carried out there was talk of criticality, but in many cases it has been done in a very generic and inappropriate way, even with reference to the article, almost we were faced not with a bill, but with a vague and generic speech in which everyone can say what he wants. I owe my first answer to the honourable Member who asked me whether during the Commission's work there has ever been a general discussion of intimidation of the political class. The observation is relevant and, therefore, it is my duty to respond. I would remind everyone that the Commission of Inquiry had a precise objective: to investigate the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators. This has been dealt with in the course of hearings, analyses and checks, including technical ones, with regard to regulatory shortcomings in criminal matters and beyond. I must say, however, that even from a superficial reading of the Commission's report, which is in the act, it is clear at once that the Commission has made precise choices which must follow. Is the Commission first of all faced with a crossroads which we have before us today: to create an ad hoc standard for the protection of local administrators, or, much more appropriately, to intervene on a obsolete rule? We have verified on the ground that there were rules that were abstractly echoed and could be applied, but this was not because language was inappropriate. We have heard in the field of Article 336 of the penal code and why the judiciary that we have consulted did not consider that rule to be appropriate. We have also heard reference to rules other than those we are talking about. There have been cases in which stalking and extortion were challenged because there were assumptions. We are talking about cases where very serious crimes have been contested. In most cases, however, we have found the judiciary and forces of order disarmed also with respect to the possibility of ascertaining the truth through the collaboration of the offended people, who often have not collaborated because the lack of tools has created that distrust also in the possibility of intervening in protection and with the application of an existing law that has produced not omertà, but sometimes silence and lack of courage. The first reason we made was not to create new rules at a decriminalisation stage. We have therefore chosen to intervene on an existing rule. None of us, President Grasso, would have written today 'political, administrative and judicial body'. Article 338 is written in another historical phase, at a completely different time. But we did not rewrite that article. Language should probably also be updated in the context of a reform of the penal code. We have intervened to say that when there is an intimidation, a component of that political, administrative and judicial body, the same penalties apply. So we didn't intervene to create a new crime, we didn't change the extent of the penalties, but we only made that rule directly applicable, regardless of any interpretation. Then there are those who have argued that there is a difference in assessment between Article 338, which is amended appropriately, and the additional. I believe, as I have tried to say before, that once such a choice is made and that the local administrator is identified as a member of a political body (apart from the immediate relief that it would not make sense to distinguish which political body, because the political bodies are those provided for in the Constitution, Municipalities, Regions, Parliament), once we have identified this road, Article 339- bis which introduces the effect applicable only when Article 338 is not applicable and when more serious offences are not applicable, we could only have referred to the same concept of component of the political body. Who wonders at all this, forgets that Article 595 of the penal code, the rule that incriminates defamation in the current version, in the last paragraph, provides for a non-special, but simple, attack precisely for the defamation directed to a political, administrative and judicial body. So today we are scandalizing, very much out of proportion, something that, regardless of this law, is already there. In fact, the aggravated defamation directed at a judicial administrative political body is already there and no one has ever questioned it, except in view of a reform. So what do I end from this point of view with regard to the question? When we intervene in such a delicate field, which has to do with the general categories of law, we do so in an accurate manner. I'm making a specific reference. Article 54 of the Constitution requires dignity and honor to those who carry out public functions. The Member of Parliament, the Mayor and the Regional Council are responsible for public functions. You cannot distinguish which representative of the people you refer to. It requires dignity and honor from all the representatives of the people. The proposal that we are putting forward is then to demand that all representatives and elected representatives be asked for dignity and honor, as we have begun to learn and do in this parliamentary term as well. At the same time, however, we ask that people who work with dignity and honour and who therefore deserve protection should be protected. Among other things, no one has grasped an element that I want to highlight: you have almost spoken of a privilege of this protection. This protection is introduced to allow the use of instruments that are also invasive. When, for example, a mayor is threatened by facts that may be included in Article 338 of the Criminal Code, as reworded, telephone interceptions and protective custody orders will be possible. Let's think about the case of an unhonest mayor. Today we are talking about hero mayors, but we are in front of 254 municipal councils dissolved for mafia; mayors are not all the same, just as Members and politicians are not. We want to protect honest people, those who do their job properly. But of course these same tools, used against people who are not honest, will finally unravel the pressures aimed at intimidation or corruption, long before what has occurred so far. So it's not about protecting the caste. I reject this concept and believe that we must not be demagogious; in fact someone is and we cannot do anything about it. But it is demagogy to say that a measure that protects the victims of a crime protects the caste, because at the bottom of everything - no matter who has spoken in a general way of Article 338, so much so as to turn it into another thing - there must be an indictment on the basis of a crime. We are faced with the fact that the politician on duty (who will almost always be a local administrator, because that is where the phenomenon occurred) must be the victim of a crime. So, what caste are we talking about, if we're talking about criminal protection prepared against a victim of a crime and, above all, a person who is a victim as he represents that piece of state that is often on the territory? Why have we come to this indictment, except for the consideration that these people, like all of us, those who have political representation, do not represent themselves alone? Your car is a private asset and the damage of a machine you want it to be; but will damaging and burning the car to a mayor be another thing too, if this act is aimed at disrupting the activity of an administration? So we encoded it as a multi-offensive crime that also offends the state. We must, in fact, think that if the people we are talking about are hero mayors, they are also representatives of the State, as we are. Look, if there is anyone to whom Article 338 of the Criminal Code applies without amendment, it is precisely the Member of Parliament; I remind you that, from reading the rule as it is, it is intended to apply to the political, administrative and judicial body or to a representation of it. The concept of representation, at the constitutional level, is used and will continue to be used even after the reform only with reference to the National Parliament and, in the future, to the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, they are false problems and I would like to share with you the joy of having done something useful, that will not solve the problems of the territory, but that will certainly enhance the activity of those who must protect the democratic life of representatives of the various territories - and I am not afraid to say - we understood. I feel, in fact, a person who, with dignity and honor, plays a role of political representation and if I were the victim of such a crime it would seem normal to be protected. It is not a privilege to be protected when you do your duty with dignity and honor, and indeed it is a duty of the State that does so, very late, but does so. I have already voted in favour of the Democratic Party, but I conclude by saying to my fellow Members who have abstained and, in particular, to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement who do not share their position. You say that you agree on this and this and then you find the trick on the fact that Article 339- bis concerns the components and instead only concerned the city councilors, when Article 338 concerns the same categories of people; in short, because you do not want to take the responsibility to say that you can make politics and have dignity [[? (Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and AP (NCD-UDC) groups and Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u125	We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). With the warning that the Presidency will be deemed to be entitled to make any changes to the formal coordination which may prove necessary, I would point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: Amendments to the penal code, the code of criminal procedure and the single text of the decree of the President of the Republic of 16 May 1960, No 570, to protect the political, administrative or judicial bodies and their individual components. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Ascola]] Appreciate the circumstances, I believe I am anticipating the convening of the Conference of Leaders at the end of our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u128	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, yesterday, 7 June 2016, the presentation of the bill of popular initiative proposed by Italy of values was announced: Emergency measures for the maximum protection of the domicile and for legitimate defence (Legislative Decree No 2433). The bill n. 2433 presented and deposited to the Senate on 1 June 2016, is accompanied by 85 plichi, containing approximately 1,124,960 signatures, in support of our bill of popular initiative, establishing a record regarding the quantity of signatures and the method of collection and highlighting that citizens are active on issues they hear. In fact, all this has happened without any kind or almost of conventional media advertising, but thanks to word of mouth, thanks to thousands of mayors, who in their Municipalities have made available the form downloaded from the website of Italy of Values on which to put the signature, and especially thanks to the will of citizens to democratically participate to subscribe to a law that carries in itself a very heartfelt and perceived theme, that affects the personal sphere of many. It is the citizens who call for legislative action in the field of self-defence. You can't go from reason to wrong just because you defend yourself. The real problem is not the Forces of Order, which are forced to denounce, or the judges who issue the sentences; the real problem is the law. The draft law promoted by Italy of the Values provides for a tightening of penalties from two to six years for thieves and the introduction of the right to defend themselves in their home, without therefore risking sanctions, and the prohibition of granting compensation to criminals who have been harmed for self-defense. This law does not want to unleash gunmen or a far west metropolitan; but it is certainly necessary to provide more protection to those who act to defend themselves. At the moment, the criminal code and criminal procedure are being reviewed in the Justice Committee. At the same time, a possible revision of Article 52 of the Criminal Code on self-defense, already revised in 2016, has returned to the Chamber for further discussion. Therefore, we hope that the competent Minister and the rapporteurs of the measures in criminal matters, both in the Chamber and in the Senate, will take into account what is written in the law of popular initiative, making any corrections, as required by the bill in question. Obviously we representatives of Italy of the Values and promoters of this bill of popular initiative will push and we will try to take a path that leads us to have what we ask.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u131	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the sensitive issue of international adoptions, particularly those in the Congo. There is a starting assumption and it is the following: we are a country that has managed to take many children away from the Congo, thanks to a wise and sensitive political work. This very result, however, cannot and must not go into the background, but above all risk being overshadowed by not always faithful reconstructions of news. To insist on the doubt that there is no difference between the orphanages of Kinshasa and a police school, such as Spinaceto, in fact, is unfair and incorrect. In this regard, I would like to take up an article in the newspaper "The Daily Fact," in order to clarify more clearly what I have just said. The newspaper in question, June 2, 2016 writes: They landed in Fiumicino at 5:20 a.m. It was still dark outside. On board the plane they thought they might have left behind the hardness of the orphanages of Kinshasa in which they lived two, three, five years without ever having set foot outside. The day of liberation comes, but what they find, as a first welcome from Italian citizens, is a police van that will lead them to the Petri barracks in Spinaceto. Waiting for the green light at the delivery.[...] The chronicle of this Calvary is important. It seems incredible, but the same script has been repeated for a long time, ruining the moment of reception, perhaps the most delicate of the entire adoption process. The Boschi, freshly delegated, last week met a delegation of parents in protest and spent reassuring words, but the last episode shows that the lifting was not enough: even this time chaos reigned sovereign. The children to be welcomed with care ended up on the police vans, same fate to the parents. As a criminal, however, there was only the indelicacy of the authorities. This is what the Newspaper Fact has written. At this point I wonder whether comparing our police forces to jailers who take over the children, subjecting them to a Calvary similar to that of the orphanages of the Republic of Congo is, first and foremost, not unfair on the part of those who should do information. Allow me, however, to add that I consider it more incorrect that we, as elected representatives of the nation, therefore men at the service of the State, accept in silence that the men of an organ such as the State Police are unjustly accused of lack of humanity and inability to manage a situation such as that described in the article. Also, I had also received an e-mail from adoptive and adoptive parents in which it was written that they did not understand. They said: From adoptive and adoptive parents we could never have thought that we could reach so much in the history of international adoptions in Italy. The bottom has really been reached by a few parents, on whom we have many doubts, also about their parental ability, who have considered it permissible to put their children in a video that feeds a sterile and useless controversy against the management of the entrances of children of the Democratic Republic of Congo, who have suffered the most and are suffering from waiting for the reunion with their families. As has been the case for all children who have entered Italy, up to now, the choice has depended on the authorities of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and that is why we remain even more grounded by the initiative of the staff of Minister Boschi to welcome on May 25 representatives of 4-5 families who hide behind the DRC Committee, representatives only of themselves. Having said that, they conclude by saying that: We feel offended by this news as by so many other news that have accustomed us in recent months to certain newspapers, to the money of some reluctant agencies to the cleaning line initiated by Vice President Silvia Della Monica. For all these reasons, as a Clean Adoption Coordination, which represents the majority of the families of the DRC, we consider this initiative to be absurd and offensive, which in fact, if confirmed, would be a resounding turn against those who are waiting for clean adoptions from this Government. I personally support the fact that even the last 15 children in Congo, who are now in security in Kinshasa, can reach their adoptive parents as soon as possible. I think there is nothing left for us to do but seek the truth, learn from it and try to defend it. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u134	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I am glad that you are chairing this stage of our work, because I am about to talk about the dramatic situation in the city of Terni, in which you yourself visited a few years ago. This morning's press review on the city of Terni talks about an absolutely dramatic environmental situation. We're talking about an ARPA alert that says the ternan basin is poisoned. In fact, the following titles are read: "The Conca is poisonous." The ARPA launches the alarm, and then again: "Terni critical area with health impacts" and again: "Air and water sick in the ternan basin." ARPA confirms: in the Conca ternana aria e acqua malate. I read only a few titles to make you understand the level of alarm present in the city of Terni. The title reports that air, water and land have been polluted in Terni. Only the fire is missing and we have destroyed all the elements of our ecosystem. In one of these articles it is written: The criticalities found in the concaternana make it absolutely an area with risks to the health of citizens. Then there are dramatic aspects: the article continues as follows: In all this marasma, Terni's fortune is to become a city in which to experiment with new techniques for monitoring pollution, where to study the effects of years of destruction of the territory. I believe that we must respond to these words with a ransom cry for this city, even in the silence of the other Umbrian MPs who I invite, if their seats are still warm, to come here to take the press review that I very willingly pass to them. This morning's news is an alarm coming from the city of Taranto about the complaint about the presence of heavy metal dusts found even in the fetuses of mothers working in the vicinity of the steel mill. I am here to do this to say that we have probably exceeded the point of no return; that point where, in order to respond to attacks by citizens, we can no longer intervene only with press releases. I would therefore like to point out to you, Mr President, this fact, by asking you to take responsibility for the situation and to spread this news to all those who can contribute to resolving it. I reserve the right to put in place other actions, as far as I know, to give a ransom to this city that is under environmental attack. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-638.ana.u135	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.45 p.m.
