ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. The first question will be asked 3-02398 on the provision of the FRT during the period of use of the integration fund by way of derogation. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u4	Mr President, the honourable Members, in this Parliamentary act, are asking the Ministry of Labour to clarify the subject of the obligation to provide end-of-relationship treatment (TFR) during the period of use of the bonus fund (CIG) by way of derogation. I would remind you that TFR is an element of remuneration whose payment is deferred at a later stage than that relating to the provision of work. The FRT consists of the sum of the annual provisions of a share of the remuneration re-evaluated annually. In the event of the use of ordinary or extraordinary cash benefits, the burden of setting aside the shares of TRF during the period of suspension shall normally be borne by the employer. However, Article 2 of Law No 464 of 1972 provided that in the event of dismissal of the worker at the end of the period of wage integration, companies could apply to INPS for reimbursement of the FTT limited to the share gained during the continuous period of integration immediately prior to the termination of the report. Following the repeal of law 462 of 1972, operated by letter e) of paragraph 1 of article 46 of legislative decree n. 148 of 2015, the Ministry of Labour has specified - with circular n. 24 of October 5, 2015 - that the quotas of treatment of end of relationship are at the expense of the employer. I also represent that the shares of TFR in the pay lost as a result of the reduction in working time for the conclusion of a solidarity contract are borne by the INPS, with the exception of those relating to workers made redundant within 90 days of the end of the wage integration treatment. With regard, however, to the use of the treatment of Cassa Integrazione in derogation, the Ministry of Labour has specified, through circular n. 4 of 2 February last, that the shares of TFR matured during the period of suspension from work for intervention of the treatment of wage integration in derogation cannot be reimbursed by the INPS. In fact, the condition of suspension of work by way of derogation from the IGC does not fall within any of the rules providing for compensation, since the relevant benefit is financed by non-contributory resources. Consequently, the payment of the shares of TFR accrued during the period of intervention of wage integration by way of derogation is borne by the employer. Last but not least, for the treatment provided on the date of entry into force of Legislative Decree No. 148 of 2015, even if the resolution of the employment relationship is in place, after a period of IGC in derogation enjoyed by the worker without continuity compared to the end of the intervention period of extraordinary wage integration fund, only the shares of TFR accrued during the period of intervention of extraordinary wage integration are payable at the expense of the Integration Fund.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u7	ANGIONES (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Bobba very much and I am very pleased with his reply. In fact, I believe that the Ministry's response can overcome some misunderstandings that in different territories of our country are ongoing between those who claim that the provision of TFR is due by the employer and those who believe that nothing is due by the employers who are in those conditions. I repeat, through this answer, I hope that that kind of situation can be completely overcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u8	2-00330, on intimidation against a senator in charge, followed. I call Senator Barani to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u9	Mr President, we are a little concerned because a colleague of our Group, Senator Ciro Falanga, has suffered several episodes of intimidation: the fire of the car, to which the interrogation refers, is preceded by two clearly intimidating signs of matrix. First, two photos of his Salerno house were sent to him in a sealed envelope in a mailbox from another house in his availability. Secondly, there have been communications of malaise on the part of the local policy for which a collaborator, some of his friends and acquaintances have been stopped, and they were asked why Senator Falanga gave himself so much to do in the Anti-Mafia Commission on issues concerning the Municipality of Torre Annunziata. These communications of malaise of the local policy towards the senator, as I have already said, through one of their own collaborators, friends, acquaintances and relatives, have caused the two episodes to be immediately reported by Senator Falanga to the President of the Anti-Mafia Commission, Mr Bindi. The latter contacted the Carabinieri General Commander, who immediately put Senator Falanga in contact with the General of Naples De Vita and the Colonel Commander of the group with reference to the territory concerned (I repeat, Mr President, that we are talking about the Municipality of Torre Annunziata). Senator Falanga, in his exuberance, had repeatedly called on the Commission to investigate the administration of the city and in particular the reasons for the failure to dissolve the municipality, after the prefect's ad hoc body to examine the acts of procurement, subcontracting and administration had confirmed in his report the existence of the prerequisites for the dissolution, in view of the extremely serious facts established by it. Now, in the question I am not given to know the facts, because they are secreted and Senator Falanga correctly did not refer to them; but the Government knows them and we cannot understand why the City Council of Torre Annunziata was not dissolved. The Committee on Access, the Anti-Mafia Commission chaired by Mr Bindi and the Ministry know the facts, all of which are unique and all go in the same direction. I would therefore like to know what initiative the Ministry of the Interior intends to take in order to shed light on these facts, for which an authoritative member of the Commission of Inquiry on the phenomenon of mafias has been sent. This Parliament wanted this Commission to have it worked and then to reach conclusions and to be consistent with them. Otherwise, it is better to dissolve it. What are we doing there? We don't need it anymore. It is these considerations, of great concern, that have led the whole Group to sign this interrogation on these intimidating acts (of course also made by the Committee of Inquiry), which have seen our authoritative colleague, Senator Ciro Falanga, victim and of course the subject of this attention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u10	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Barani, together with other senators, in calling attention to the results of access to the Municipality of Torre Annunziata carried out by the commission of investigation appointed by the Prefect of Naples to ascertain possible infiltrations or conditionings of the mafia type, asks to know the reasons why the local agency has not been dissolved. It should be recalled, in general, that the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry are not uncritically transposed by the Prefect, who has the power and duty to examine them, also having heard the Provincial Committee for Public Order and Security, supplemented with the participation of the prosecutor of the Republic competent by territory. In the present case, the Prefect of Naples, on the assent of the aforementioned Committee, identified several problems in the management of the institution, but considered that they were not such as to give effect to the conditions for the dissolution of the City Council, as they lacked the characteristics required by the legislation in force in terms of concreteness, univocity and relevance. In its assessment, the provincial authority took into account the well-established orientation of administrative case-law, according to which the application of extraordinary measures must be justified with regard to objective findings on the existence of links or forms of conditioning. I represent, however, that, after the measure with which the Minister of the Interior has decreed the closure of the procedure, in January 2014 the prefect invited the mayor of Torre Annunziata to put in place, within the period of six months, the necessary initiatives to remove the forms of diversion of the administrative activity and the effects detrimental to the public interest found in the inspection, that, if persistent, could have led to the dissolution of the City Council for serious violations of law. Subsequently, the prefecture started a careful monitoring against the municipality that allowed to verify the activation by the local administration of all the prescribed initiatives with the invitation-warning, including the most important one, consisting in the eviction of Palazzo Fienga, considered the stronghold of the camorristic association of the Gionta. The prefect has communicated that also the attorney of the Republic and the provincial summits of the Forces of the order have emphasized the active engagement of the mayor in the work of restoration of the legality. With the act of inspection union in question, information is also required on the protective measures intended to protect the safety of Senator Ciro Falanga, member of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of the mafias, following the intimidating acts consumed against him. In particular, the honourable Members refer, as has been mentioned, to the episode that took place last December 3rd in Trecase, where Senator Falanga's driver's car was set on fire. The fire also spread to the car parked in front, which turned out to be in use by the parliamentarians, but in the availability of the same driver. The investigation of the episode by the investigative core of the Carabinieri group of Torre Annunziata and the prosecutor of the competent Republic is still ongoing and covered by secret investigation. In relation to the event, the commissioner of Naples has already arranged the general surveillance measure radio connected to the senator's home, intensified also at certain times. At the technical police coordination meeting, convened by the prefect for the following 9 December, the aforementioned tutorial device was deemed appropriate and, therefore, ratified. In addition, an assiduous mobile surveillance service has been activated with all the objectives where the senator is expected to be present, in particular at the aforementioned home and in that of his driver.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u13	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr. Undersecretary, we need a few statements that we have heard. Since 2014 there was an administrative misdirection. The mayor was asked to restore legality. You, Undersecretary, said that. It has been told to the mayor that there is no legality and that it must be restored. There's administrative misdirection. Also, in a palace (of which I missed the name), which was closed, there was a camorristic partnership. It's three moments we've established. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Mafia, chaired by Mr Bindi, has secreted the acts, which I do not know. From the answer given, however, I know the three moments mentioned above, because of which in any other part of Italy would put barbed wire around the Municipality. These are the three reasons I have heard in my reply. Of course, the Undersecretary is blameless, because he has the answer that comes from the prefecture of Naples, which set up the committee of access cited. The Commissioners unanimously requested the dissolution of the Municipal Council after hearing the report of the Access Commission. Now the Security and Public Order Committee may not be informed; they sit there and decide not to dissolve it. They may have had their reasons, but surely the anti-Mafia Commission, chaired by Mr Bindi, is aware of much more serious situations. The Undersecretary has been able to talk to us about three things: restoration of legality since 2014 - it is not well known, because there is still the investigation, if this restoration has happened - administrative diversion and camorristic partnership. A building was closed where it was established that there was a camorristic partnership. I wonder where they've opened it. They'll have gone to the city nearby or somewhere else. We know that the facts are secreted and we invite the Minister of the Interior, together with the Anti-Mafia Commission, who really knows why to return to this decision because it is perhaps in the interests of the territory. We are satisfied with the protection of Senator Falanga and we share, therefore, what the Undersecretary has told us, but in the interest of the territory that City Council must be dissolved. [[Senator Giarrusso points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u14	There follows the question 2-00344, with abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Regulation, on the repetition of accidents and malfunctions of lifts of the Cannizzaro hospital of Catania. I call Senator Bertorotta to illustrate this questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u15	Mr President, the urgent question that the 5 Star Movement presented on 28 January 2014 and of which I am the first signatory stems from another one dating back to October 2014 with the same theme as the subject; indeed, to be more precise, the same problem. I refer to the deletion - provided for in the decree spending review of 2012, exactly from article 12, paragraph 20 of Decree-Law No. 95 - of the commissions for the certification to carry out the activities related to the performance of the competitive procedures for the attainment of the certificate of rating to the maintenance of lifts and elevator. This certificate until 2012 was issued by the prefect. If, with the first question, I noted a figure relating to the cost for the operation of the committee in question, which, according to the 2012 Report on the General Report of the State of the Court of Auditors, is very modest for the State (about 18,000 euros), highlighting, moreover, the serious damage that the suspension of the examinations is causing to the companies operating in the sector, which have invested important resources in the training of their staff, in order to allow technicians, in particular apprentices, to acquire the theoretical and practical knowledge necessary to be able to pass the examination of qualification, with the second question I reported a case indirectly related to the problem in question. And, indeed, an article from the local newspaper "Le hyene sicule" of January 23, 2016 reported the news: It ended only with some injuries and a lot of fear: for the umpteenth time, however, the hospital Cannizzaro of Catania shows serious inefficiencies in the operation of lifts. This would not seem to be the first time that such events have occurred in the hospital in question. From another source of press, dating back to July 2015, we heard the news of another tragedy, reported by a Catania citizen involved in the story, who said: We take the elevator, eighth floor, other people come in, there are eight of us. Suddenly a very fast race, a tear, a horrible backlash: the elevator freezes. He's so scared, he's starting to lack oxygen, there's a lot of people, six adults, my eight-month-old son and an eight-year-old boy. There's also an old lady. We shout, no one can hear us. The clock is ticking, we sound the alarm, but it's glowing: only a weak buzz. No one comes and I swear, I don't understand how a public facility that welcomes thousands of people doesn't set up a security service for elevators. My baby cries seamlessly and no one can hear us. Cell phones don't have a signal. Then we hear voices: they are relatives and patients admitted, they give themselves, but they do not receive answers from the health care staff because no one is available. Neither the technicians, nor the safety officer, nor the health manager. They call the firemen who arrive after a while. The elevator in the meantime is shaky, I'm afraid it will collapse, the tension is skyrocketing (...). It's been exactly an hour. They're pulling us out. I'm grounded (...). If that guardian angel hadn't heard the cry of my little Linus we'd still be there, inside the elevator, cyanotic or unconscious. As reported in the press article, the hospital company Cannizzaro had to point out that the event happened on July 18, 2015 was not due to a failure, but to a block of the elevator, so much so that the firefighters themselves intervened, in their report, attested it as a presumable cause of the accident. The technical office of the hospital Cannizzaro seems to have written to the company in the immediacy, asking the reasons for the event and inviting to put in place any useful initiative to prevent further similar failures in the future. Given that such failures should not even exist or at least should be avoided, it is not unnecessary to remember that, in order to perform safely maintenance operations on lifts, specific skills, technical, theoretical and practical knowledge as well as professional experience are indispensable. The State Secretary for Economic Development, responding to Question 4-06728 of 4 November 2014, at the first signature of Mr Crippa, highlighted some important points including the need for the certification necessary to carry out maintenance work. Some news received from the Ministry of Economic Development reveals the holding of some meetings, during which solutions were examined to remedy the suppression of the prefectial commission, agreeing on the desirability of carrying out a revision of the current legislation on the issue of the title. The MISE has communicated to the undersigned that on 8 April 2015 another meeting has been held, to which some representatives of the Ministry of the job and of the social policies and of the Ministry of the infrastructures and the transports. While during the first meeting the Ministry of the Interior raised the possibility of reconsidering the prefectic competence on the subject, from the second meeting - according to the one communicated to me - it emerged the solution to reconstitute the commission, revising its composition, in order to foresee exclusively representatives of the Ministries of the job and the infrastructures, incardinando all the procedure, including the release of the license, in charge of the Dicastery of the job that, besides having the primary competence, has peripheral offices dislocated at provincial level. On this point, I believe that your answer will be able to clarify the position of this Government on such a sensitive issue. He will understand well that blocking the exams means preventing the regular conduct of recruitment procedures in the cases of turnover in an industrial sector such as the elevator that has frankly so far made Italy boast not only in Europe, but also in the world. The fear that is hidden and that we have highlighted without too many turns of words in today's questioning is that there is a close connection between the events that occurred at the hospital Cannizzaro in Catania and the blocking of the exams in order to achieve the so-called license, so as to leave the doubt that behind these cases there are examples of bad management or careless maintenance by subjects, possibly without adequate technical preparation; doubts that of course I would like to be escaped. I look forward, therefore, to knowing the merit assessments, and to knowing the concrete initiatives that the Government intends to take to resolve definitively the situation described. I conclude with the latest news that I learn from a national association of the sector, which communicates the following: The MISE has been developing, for several months, a draft regulation to be approved by decree of the President of the Republic that will amend the decree of the President of the Republic n. 162 of 1999, the framework law on lifts in Italy. This measure is necessary in order to transpose into our law the directive 2014/33/EU lifts which, starting from 20 April 2016, will have to replace the existing directive lifts 95/16/EC. In addition to the transposition of the directive, the Ministry intends to make to the decree of the President of the Republic n. 162 of 1999 some changes of national competence, including: the reaffirmation of the competence of the prefectures for the issue of ratings to the maintenance technicians, fundamental aspect in that the related prefective commissions have been abolished and for more than two years no more examination sessions are held; the amendment of Article 15 relating to maintenance, specifying that the maintainer must draw up a maintenance plan for each installation, tailored, according to its characteristics and conditions of use; minor changes to the articles on the putting into operation, checks and emergency maneuvering; the introduction of Article 19 -bis, classified "Adjustment of the safety of lifts complying with the rules in force until the first application of the decree of the President of the Republic 30 April 1999, n. 162 I wonder if the Undersecretary is in a position to confirm what has just been said, but above all I ask if the Ministry that it represents today is able to explain to us the actions adopted or adopted in agreement with the Sicilian Region, in order to ascertain the real application of the legislation in force in this matter. I would like to remind you that on the safety of hospital elevators, the regional health council should also show attention. Finally, I believe that this Ministry must bear the burden of investing the judicial authority of the investigative power in the event that there should be assumptions of responsibility at the head of the authorized company for the maintenance of lifts of the hospital company Cannizzaro of Catania, which, according to the news at my disposal, would not be one, or at least perhaps to win the contract are companies that have different names, but that in fact have legal seat in the same address. I would really like to know if the Undersecretary has any specific information on these firms, but I know that my request is outside the scope of today's questioning. Nothing strange that we will be able to meet again in the near future to discuss the winners of intransparent tenders that benefit the usual friends of friends or, even, friends of health managers themselves. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda - I must say very detailed and well documented - Senator Bertorotta, together with other senators, taking the cue of an episode of malfunctioning of an elevator at the Cannizzaro hospital in Catania, asks the Government what initiatives it intends to take to overcome the deadlock that has arisen in the activities of issuing certificates of rating for the maintenance of lifts, since the prefects can no longer avail themselves, for this purpose, of the committees responsible for examining the existence of the technical requirements necessary for the exercise of that profession. I would immediately like to point out that the Administration of the Interior fully shares the concern about the difficulties highlighted by the honourable Members, so much so that, in order to prevent them, it consulted the Council of State on the exact interpretative scope of the provision of Decree-Law No 95 of 2012 suppressing a whole series of collegial bodies operating under the extension regime, including the committees in question. At this meeting, the Administration supported and argued the infungibility and the permanence in life of the latter, in the light of the absence, within the prefectures, of technical professionalism able to absorb the competences entrusted to the suppressed body. Received from the High Council an opinion of opposite sign to that desired, this Dicastery, together with the administrations represented in the suppressed commission, has activated itself in order to characterize the most suitable path to restore the functionality of the field to protection of the profiles of safety and public health involved and to satisfy the occupational demands of the operators of the field. To this end, several interministerial meetings were held, during which it was also suggested - as the honourable Members pointed out - the transfer of competence in this matter to other administration. This option has not been followed. On the other hand, in line with the indication contained in the above-mentioned opinion of the Council of State to make use of institutions available in the law in force, the possibility of entrusting the examination tests related to the granting of the rating to the maintenance of lifts to a body already present in the prefectures was considered: the permanent provincial conference referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic n. 189 of 2006. This hypothesis, however, has proved inappropriate, since the conference is a support body to the prefect in the exercise of the functions of coordination of the activities of the peripheral offices of the State and of guaranteeing respect for the principle of loyal collaboration between the latter and the local authorities. Further concerns have been expressed with regard to the possibility of using the institute of the conference of services referred to in Law No 241, which is oriented towards the acquisition of agreements, concerts, nothing precludes and acts of assent in the context of an administrative procedure and, for this reason, does not reconcile with the functions proper to an examination commission. At the outcome of the in-depth investigation which I have just summarized, the Administration of the Interior considers - as the honourable Members have hoped - that the only way forward for an effective solution to the problem under consideration is through ad hoc regulatory intervention, the details of which are in the process of being defined in units of intent with the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the other Dicasteries concerned. As a regulatory vehicle, the next government regulation on the amendment of the decree of the President of the Republic No 162 of 1999 for the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council No 33 of 26 February 2014 was identified. With regard to the content of the standard, a theoretical-practical test shall be carried out before an examination committee appointed by the territorially competent prefect, composed of qualified officials from different administrations. At the positive result of the test, it will be the prefect himself who will issue the certificate of certification valid throughout the national territory. With reference to the last question asked with the question, the Ministry of the Interior has taken action in the regional bodies responsible, which have provided the following information. Assuming that the lifts of the hospital companies do not fall into the category of the public service lifts in accordance with the decree of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of 9 March 2015, the management of the forklifts of the hospital company Cannizzaro is entrusted to a special company, whose maintenance staff is regularly authorized to carry out this service and carries out daily the verification of the functionality of the facilities themselves. Following the episode of malfunction that occurred on 22 January 2016, the lift concerned was inspected and verified by the plant and accident prevention service of the provincial health company of Catania, which confirmed that the plant worked in safety and had been subject to periodic, scheduled and extraordinary maintenance by the entrusted company of the service, as well as inspection visits planned by law. On the other hand, within the framework of the allocation of the funds provided for in Article 71 of Law No 448 of 1998, the Regional Health Council approved and authorised a project on the replacement of the forklifts of the "F" building of the Cannizzaro hospital for an amount of approximately 960,000 euros.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u19	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, what can I say? Since 2013 the working tables have been held, the issue seems very controversial and complex to solve and in the meantime these facts happen. By the way, I am surprised to hear that the lifts at Cannizzaro Hospital do not belong to the public service. This really sounds crazy to me. It is the largest health care company in Sicily and I do not know how many people benefit every day from those lifts. Yet, they are considered to be lifts for private use. I expected to understand why this Parliament also rejected my amendments. Meanwhile, while the tables meet in ministerial offices, perhaps you could continue to finance with 18,000 euros a year the prefectial commissions to avoid the legislative vulnus. I would like to remind you that the European Commission, inter alia, with reference to this directive, has found a contrast between European legislation and Italian legislation represented by the Ministerial Decree issued by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport on 11 January 2010 entitled: Rules relating to the operation of lifts in public service intended for the transport of persons. This decree has only one flaw: it does not apply to all types of lifts or to all transport cases, because in Italy public transport is clearly considered private. It should be common ground that national legislation cannot conflict with those contained in the same Directive, which intended to ensure that lifts, produced in any Member State of the European Union, can move freely in the other Member States, without being hindered by differing technical requirements for them. In this regard, the Ministerial Decree of 11 January 2010, referred to above, requires the installation and putting into service of the type of lifts considered therein to the prior technical assessment of an appropriate internal authority: this requirement would illegitimately duplicate, in the Commission's view, the authorisation procedure already covered by the Directive in Annex II thereto. I also admit that I have not understood why for twenty-one years Europe has been waiting for Italy to decide to raise the level of safety of its old lifts, especially if we take into account that we have plants dating back to before 1999, that have not been subjected to adaptation measures and that, even if they are maintained according to the law, they are still dangerous. Italy has so far ignored the call to raise the level of safety of existing installations. Evidently, the government at the time was convinced that it should never grow old. The truth, Mr Undersecretary, is that this Government has a duty to adopt an act to protect the health and safety of its citizens, as well as adjustment measures to reduce the likelihood of accidents and accidents. Let's hope that accidents and accidents do not touch people close to us or we personally because, if the 5 Star Movement were to discover that the legislative action you want to take is not linked only to the obligations deriving from that recommendation, it will make you look bad with the Italians, and in the first place with the eight citizens who were trapped last summer in the elevator, even if hospital. By the way, it seems that these people are also familiar with the press. So, you have to be particularly careful.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u20	Following is the question 3-01125, on the alleged irregularities in the election of the mayor of Alcamo, in the province of Trapani, in 2012. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Giarrusso, together with other senators, put to the attention of the Government the electoral verification activity that the prefecture of Trapani was called to carry out in relation to the ballot round of 20-21 May 2012 among the candidates for the office of mayor of Alcamo. With regard to this fulfillment, honourable interrogators have feared that there could be delays in the execution of the operations and that, therefore, the prefecture could make a request for an extension of the deadline set at 30 September 2014. I inform that the verification activity - arranged by the council of administrative justice for the Sicilian Region with judgment of June 2014 - began the next 1st September. With regard to the timing of the procedure followed, it should first be recalled that the prefecture of Trapani, for the purpose of an early execution of the task, had set the beginning of the verification for the date of August 25, 2014. However, the lawyers of the elected mayor, together with those of the Municipality of Alcamo, have communicated their unwillingness to attend the scheduled operations, since the fixed date fell during the period of the working suspension of the procedural terms. The prefecture therefore considered it appropriate to postpone the beginning of the procedure until the following 1 September not only in order to guarantee the contradictory of the parties during the conduct of the verification activity, but also in order to prevent any censorship in order to carry out its regular execution. The verification covered 35 electoral sections out of 41 and concerned, according to the indications given by the Administrative Council, a series of electoral ballots characterized by particular characteristics falling within the types indicated by the same council. In the course of the control activity, the existence of the element of recognition of the vote was assessed on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of the indications contained in the judgment and the legal guidelines cited therein. I note that the performance of the intense activities has been characterized by remarkable operating difficulties and has demanded a remarkable commitment, both for the considerable amount of cards examined (to be precise 22.307), and for the situation of heated conflict between the parties, assisted by numerous lawyers, and the continuous contests, often addressed also to the verifier delegated by the prefect of Trapani. The verification procedure ended on 18 September and the report of the verification, together with all related acts, was filed with the Secretariat of the Administrative Council on 29 September 2014, in full compliance with the deadline set, as stated above, on 30 September 2014, and therefore without any delay. On the basis of the report, the Administrative Justice Council, by a decision lodged on 19 March last year, rejected on the substance the request for correction of the electoral correction proposed at first instance, stating in the reasoned part that the verification was absolutely impeccable and totally acceptable. For completeness, I inform that on June 6 last year the mayor and the municipal council of Alcamo ceased their office as a result of the resignation resigned by the mayor himself. Taking note of this, the President of the Sicilian Region, with own decree of the next 19 June, has appointed an extraordinary commissioner for the management of the agency until the first useful electoral round that will be held in the spring of this year.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u24	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, the answer is not exhaustive, because the question referred to the whole process of the case, which was characterized by a dilution of the times, by two different decisions of the administrative judiciary rejecting the appeal - which forced a third appeal to be revoked only after the referral to trial by vote of exchange for those same ballots - and by a further anomalous delay in the activities of administrative justice, which - we remember - are electoral activities which require fast procedures, but which instead - I repeat - have been characterized by an exasperating length and a disconcerting confusion. To the exasperating length and disconcerting confusion is added also, from good last, the story of the verification. You said well, Mr Undersecretary: 22,000 sheets of 35 sections examined within the period of suspension of time limits, which expires on 16 September. Let us remember that the request for the convening of 25 August is simply an act that puts a cloth in the question filed on 22 July, when we learned that, immediately after the communication of the provision of verification to the prefecture, the official delegated to the verification had simply gone on vacation in July. Therefore, the verification could be carried out at appropriate times, which would certainly have led to a reasonable outcome, and all the events in question would probably have had a different outcome - in our opinion - even if they had not been spoiled by something else. Mr. Undersecretary, I don't know if you're aware of this, but it turns out that both the mayor and the deputy mayor of Alcamo were members of a Masonic lodge, referred to as "Myrhiam 225." Now we - and we will ask a question in this regard - want to know whether there are other members of Masonic lodges involved in the proceedings within all the mentioned events, which have caused the very serious anomalies. Let us remember that there is a criminal procedure for voting for the same ballots that the Administrative Justice Council has considered legitimate and valid. Mr President, just now I would have liked to speak just to say that I, as a member of the Anti-Mafia Commission, and we, as a 5 Star Movement Group, support the requests made by Senator Barani, which are far more serious than he has been able to put forward. I have personally examined the members of the Committee for Public Order and Security, who have decided not to dissolve the Municipality of Torre Annunziata. The reasons you have reported, Undersecretary Bocci, are not the same as those which have been brought back to the Anti-Mafia Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u25	Senator Giarrusso, in this type of debate everyone talks about his own question or questioning. There is no debate of the other commentaries. That's why I couldn't give her the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u26	You are right, Mr President, but I would ask you to understand that the situation is very serious and that there is a colleague from another particularly sensitive group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u27	He could say that and we have noted it, Senator Giarrusso, but we cannot open a debate on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u28	GIARRUSSO (M5S). It still doesn't end here for Torre Annunziata.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u29	Torre Annunziata will have a long life. Following is the question 3-02422, on episodes related to asbestos overexposure at the command of the Fire Departments of Macerata. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Morgoni, together with other senators, based on an episode of exposure to asbestos which, in October 2014, involved some firemen of the command of Macerata engaged in the shutdown of a fire, poses a targeted series of questions related to the safety of work in the said command and, more generally, in the offices of the National Firefighters' Corps. It is a fact that the staff of the operating sector of the National Corps, engaged in emergency technical rescue operations for collapses or fires, may occasionally be exposed, for the short period of the intervention, to environmental situations characterized by the presence of asbestos fibres released into the air. In such cases, there are targeted health checks carried out by the competent physician in respect of firefighters for whom the occupational exposure to asbestos above the limit concentration of 0,1 fibres per cubic centimetre of air has been investigated, defined and notified. This is an important measure of secondary prevention, in addition to the strict primary prevention measures, such as: the abolition of asbestos, where "safe" substitute materials exist; the systematic monitoring of concentrations of airborne fibres in "risk" environmental areas; the implementation of appropriate operational and technical procedures to avoid uncontrolled and unnecessary dispersions in all operations involving interventions on asbestos-containing materials or structures. Having said that, I will explain the health measures taken against the members of the two teams of the provincial command of the firefighters of Macerata who took part in the fire from which the question originates. Following the report of suspected exposure to asbestos, carried out by a team leader and confirmed by the report of the Regional Agency for the Protection of the Environment Marche, the names of the personnel involved were communicated to the competent doctor, who activated the health protocol agreed with the medical clinic of the regional hospital of Torrette di Ancona. In this context, fourteen alert diagnostic screenings were submitted to the first stage, four of which were positive. Therefore the competent doctor, through the provincial command, proposed to the latter a lung CT, in order to have a more in-depth evaluation of the respiratory system and the possible presence of pleural plaques. He also proposed that the screening be repeated on an annual basis to all the staff involved in the intervention. In addition, diagnostic screening was arranged for a further 27 vigilantes, of which 19 were for purely precautionary purposes and 8 following another rescue operation, for which the ARPAM report had revealed the presence of asbestos fibres in the atmosphere. Therefore, the requirement mentioned in the question to carry out a precautionary screening of at least 10% of the personnel in service is satisfied, considering that the total staff of the command of Macerata is 180 operating units. With reference to the possible existence in the offices of the Macerata command of concauses related to the potential exposure to asbestos, I think it is necessary to point out, in general, that the defense of the health and safety of firefighters is an absolute priority of the Administration of the interior; therefore the presence of materials containing asbestos in the offices of service of the Body has been subject to checks and decisive actions throughout the national territory. Also the operational headquarters of the command of Macerata have been subjected to such initiatives, in collaboration with the head of the Protection and Prevention Service, with the unique regional health company and with the Province of Macerata. As a result, the absence of construction components in asbestos was found and this was also due to the reclamation activity carried out at the time, in particular at the headquarters and the detachment of Civitanova Marche. Finally, as regards the personal protective equipment used by firefighters during rescue operations, I assure them that they have very advanced technical characteristics and therefore guarantee safety and quality standards often above the thresholds laid down by the existing European standards for standard certification. I suggest that, in the case of special risks, the operational intervention is addressed with the simultaneous adoption of various devices supplied, to protect both the body and the respiratory tract.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u33	Mr Morzoni (PD). Mr President, I am sufficiently satisfied with the answers that have been given to the questions asked, not without stressing the need for constant monitoring of the problem in order to ensure the protection of the health of workers, which - as the Undersecretary has emphasized - is undoubtedly a primary asset. I say this also in the light of the fact that in many industrial or productive structures - I am obviously also talking about the territory of Macerata and the Marche Region - there is the presence of construction elements containing asbestos. There is a rather high risk of exposure to asbestos by staff in fire-extinguishing operations or in the event of other measures to break down such structures. In fact, the same health examinations, arranged after the October 2014 event, showed the possibility that the exposures were attributable also to previous and continued episodes, attesting to the presence of a rather substantial risk from this point of view. In this question, I stressed that particular attention should be paid to the structures of the command of Macerata, where unfortunately the work of a wing of the building has not yet been completed which would allow a better organization of the activity and a better containment of the risks from post intervention exposure. In fact, useful safeguards could be put in place to limit at least the risk of exposure and contamination. In conclusion, Mr Undersecretary, thank you once again for the answers you have given.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u34	Following is the question 3-02662, on the case of some participants in a selection for recruitment in fire department. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Ricchiuti brings to the attention of the Minister of the Interior the question of the position of 12 candidates who participated in the selective procedure for the stabilisation of volunteer firefighters, banned in 2007, calling in particular for initiatives aimed at their re-hire in service. It should be noted that the 12 candidates to whom the questions refer participated in the stabilisation procedure, although they did not meet one of the admission requirements, in particular that of having carried out at least one hundred and twenty days' call for voluntary service in the five-year period prior to the call. Initially excluded from the competition, the above candidates, by virtue of a precautionary decision of the Council of State, were admitted subject to selective evidence. At the outcome of the same, 11 of them, having placed themselves usefully in the ranking, were assumed albeit subject to the outcome of the judgment of merit. For a candidate, no recruitment was carried out, as called for recruitment, was found to be absent. In this regard, it should be pointed out that the recruitments with reservation, as expressly represented by the administration to the parties concerned in the letters of summons, do not determine acquiescence to the applicants' reasons, but represent only a mere execution of orders or judgments of first instance. In the present case, as a result of the rejection of the merits of the appeal by the Council of State and the favourable opinion of the General Commission of the State, the administration has ordered the cancellation of the appointment of the 11 persons concerned as firefighters. The latter brought an action against this measure, respectively, against the TAR Campania and the TAR Calabria, which, as a precautionary measure, accepted the request to suspend the effectiveness of the ministerial decree for the annulment of the appointment as firefighter. Consequently, the administration re-hired them until the outcome of the substantive judgment. The case has had further and more recent procedural developments. The position of the 7 applicants at the TAR Campania was defined by judgment of 15 February 2014, which rejected the actions in the matter, thus giving effect to the decree of annulment of the assumption of the interested parties. This decision was confirmed by the State Council on 22 December 2014. In the circumstances, the High Assembly pointed out that the employment relationships, which arose on a provisional basis in compliance with a protective order, could not lead interested parties to a legitimate expectation of the will of the administration to keep them in service, given that they did not meet the requirements to be admitted to the stabilisation procedure. As regards the position of the four applicants at the Calabria TAR, however, I represent that the same were assumed with reservation at the provincial command of the firefighters of Cosenza, in the more of the decision of merit by the administrative court, whose judgment at first instance is still pending. On the basis of the foregoing, it appears useful to point out that in the case, in part already defined and in part in the course of the judicial definition, the administration has no margin of discretion. However, it has always expressed consideration for the difficult position of the parties concerned, as demonstrated by its adherence to the requests for meetings made by them, which have been received with a view to providing them with all the clarifications and clarifications required by the circumstances.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u38	RICHIUTI (PD). Mr President, this is a very paradoxical affair, which I believe has cost more for the appeals to the TAR than if the people concerned had been employed. The joke is that four of them work and the others don't. We are in Italy: there are 11 workers of whom 7 will no longer work and 4, who participated in the same competition and followed the same iter, work. People don't understand these things. I thank the Undersecretary for his reply, but I find myself completely dissatisfied. The tragedy of the whole story is that the people concerned quit the place where they worked to participate in the contest and then found themselves practically mocked. I believe that the seven workers' affair is finally over for you. I only ask the Ministry to review the decision made.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u39	Following is the question 3-02490, on military nursing personnel deemed unfit for military service. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u40	Mr President, the Ministerial Decree of 18 April 2002, in line with the provisions of Article 930 of Legislative Decree No 66 of 2010, on the transit of military personnel deemed unfit for unconditional military service in the functional areas of civil personnel of the Ministry of Defence, expressly provides that the transferred personnel shall be included in the qualification corresponding to the degree they hold at the time of transfer, according to a special classification table for grade/functional area. The table compares the grades of marshal to the professional profiles B3 (today second area "assistant"), with the exception of the 1st marshal and the 1st marshal lieutenant, placed in C1 (today third area "official"). Therefore, military nurses who have the rank of 1st marshal or 1st lieutenant marshal pass through the corresponding third area "officials" of the role of civil servants of the Defense. The current legal system also provides that military personnel in excess of the organic equipment may, upon request, pass through the roles of the civil personnel of the Ministry of Defence and other administrations; this faculty is undoubtedly exercisable also by the military nurses. On the other hand, transit to other administrations is not covered by Article 930 of Legislative Decree no. 66 of 2010, since the same deals only with transits of military unfit for unconditional military service. In detail, with regard to the total number of military nurses judged unfit for military service and transited into civilian roles, the same are 13: 12 of them were assigned the profile of healthcare assistant and one of the administrative assistant.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u43	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I must say that I did not understand all the passages mentioned, I did not make them very clear. In fact, military nurses, compared to those working in the National Health Service, belong to a different category. I understand that if they move within the various ministries, they remain in the category to which they belonged: maybe they change Ministry, but it remains the type of contract and level they had. On the other hand, when they leave the Ministry - and I wonder if they can go to work in the National Health Service, in a hospital, in a normal hospital - at that point, if they are transferred, they acquire level D, and then the third level. It's my own level, but as a civilian nurse of a public hospital company, I didn't go through military service or the military corps of the Ministries. The point is to understand if these subjects have the possibility of having a level equal to the profession they practice, because I often seem to see that they are downgraded to the fact that they are nurses and, therefore, fall down to the level. Then I have another question to ask. It seems to me that these people work as nurses within the hospital companies that deal with giving one service only and exclusively to the military (the famous military hospitals). I wonder, then, what the meaning of today is. I understand that it is necessary to have nurses and doctors in certain areas - I am reminded of the Navy: on ships it obviously takes a hospital on board, it seems to me the least, as well as in other particular situations - but there are also territorial hospital systems, which cling to the military system, which I find are not appropriate today, in 2016. By the way, this type of hospital has a limited user and, therefore, for the famous high multiplier the service they give becomes expensive and sometimes limited. The offer they can give, even in relation to the staff they need (doctors and nurses), is minimal or, at least, the staff is used very little, when it could instead be inserted in a national hospital context, have a greater operation and give answer to a much wider user, that is not only the military one. In this way, however, I believe that the offer is limited, as well as its quality, as happens when working only on a specific sector and only on one type of user. Perhaps I was not clear, but the answer was not that comprehensive. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The questioning and questioning of the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u44	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-591.ana.u45	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 15 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.17.
