ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the 8 June afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin our work, I would like to express the solidarity of the whole Senate and my staff with the family, colleagues and friends of Helen Joanne Cox, a barbaricly murdered British Member of Parliament last Thursday. [[Applause.]] Jo Cox had been elected to the House of Commons for the Labour Party in 2015, representing the constituency of West Yorkshire, where she was born. He exercised his mandate with courage and determination. As one of his Westminster colleagues said, he considered Parliament as a means of fighting for all the people in the world who need us most. In fact, Jo Cox had at heart the fate of the weakest, the last, whose problems he had experienced closely by working with large and important international non-governmental organizations, such as Oxfam and Save the children. She was a young and determined bearer of the values of democracy and solidarity. He played his role as a Member of Parliament as a means of ensuring true social justice, both outside and within national borders. Just as she was talking to citizens about these issues, she was killed because of her political ideas and commitment. His death, at the hands of an extremist, leads us to manifest the firmest condemnation of any phenomenon of intolerance, especially when it results in acts of such dramatic violence. Jo Cox leaves a husband and two children. To them in particular I address the embrace of the entire Senate Assembly and my staff. I invite you to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u11	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I too, on behalf of the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party, wish to embrace the husband and children of Jo Cox, a Labour Member murdered in Britain last week. Scotland Yard's investigation will tell us if it was a madman, an exalted man or a common criminal who killed her, but we already know for sure that hers was a political crime. She was the victim of a political assassination, which struck her only because of her ideas and commitment and which with her affected her family, her Labour Party, her European ideal, Europe as a whole and therefore all of us who are Europeans. I believe - and I want to say this at the end of this very brief speech - that his sacrifice must push us to a better policy and make us understand the need to banish from our debates all forms of hatred, all forms of excess, any exaggerated conflict. His death must push us to always seek ways of political coexistence as civil and always respectful of one another's opinions. Even so, I think, we will honour Jo Cox's memory, memory and political action. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u14	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, what about Jo Cox? She had just been elected, but before she was elected she did, as you mentioned, Mr President, the volunteer or the activist, as they say in Britain. She had dealt with Muslim immigrants, in order to integrate them, she had dealt much with children and also with the relations between religions, the Catholic religion and the Protestant religion, which do not always get along in Great Britain and, in communities, these divisions weigh heavily. It was, as you say, a member of the college, your West Yorkshire, as you mentioned, Mr President. In his boarding school he returned very often, continuously and, when he returned, he met people. As Senator Zanda rightly said, you have to wonder what killed her. Did the political competition kill her? The position - which I naturally do not agree with - is legitimate, however, of whom does Britain want to separate from Europe? No, it's not that. Hate has killed her, which is growing enormously at this time in the world and unfortunately also in Italy; a hatred that in the Anglo-Saxon world and in the French world is growing much more than in other parts of the Western world, of our very developed world. This hatred grows because we are in a very delicate moment in our history, a moment in which extraordinary possibilities open up for humanity, but, at the same time, when the material conditions, especially of the middle class, which have always been the basis of our democracies and the reference point of democracies themselves, are threatened. And when you feel threatened, the risk of hatred is very strong. Why was Jo Cox killed? I simply say this: first of all, because she was a woman and, in times of crisis, the woman continues to be the enemy, the emblem of something that has been successful and that I hate, if I disagree with her. Let us not forget these ancient wounds. Secondly, she was killed because, daughter of a worker, she had graduated very well in one of the best English schools and had been successful. Thirdly, because she was a woman with her ideas and had been chosen by the West Yorkshire College. I insist on that. In this Senate Chamber there has sometimes been talk of British democracy as an ultra-majoritarian democracy, but British democracy is based on the direct relationship between the Member of Parliament and his college. It is Jo Cox who would have brought the majority prize to his Premier even though, in this case, it was not so because, as you know, the majority prize was then passed to the party opposed to the Labour Party, that is to say to the Cameron party. She therefore had a strong roots in her territory and in her college and was recognized by the people. The rootless man, the marginalized man, his killer, the man who fed himself on racist American texts and who participated in a club, or at least read the magazine of this Springbok Club, which is a magazine not only racist, but that also proposes racial segregation, this type of man cannot stand that a woman has been successful, that a woman has earned a social promotion, that a woman has political and social consent. That is the reality with which we have to deal. The best way to honor Jo Cox is not now simply to breathe a sigh of relief, because it seems that the numbers have changed and perhaps it seems that the danger, feared by stock exchanges and markets, of Britain's separation from Europe is averted. The best way to honor it is to remind us of the ancient plagues that accompany our extraordinary technological revolution that is underway in the world. These ancient plagues are precisely hatred and extremism, which can be Nazi or Islamist, but which often has absolutely similar roots in our land. I would like to conclude with a phrase that apparently has nothing to do with it: Barack Obama said, about another massacre in the United States that this enemy is internal, it is our home. Well, we know that the poison that killed Jo Cox is also our home. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u17	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group joins its expressions of condolence to the family of Jo Cox and colleagues in the London Parliament in the face of this murder which leaves us appalled. Murderous violence for political reasons is always deeply wrong and hateful and represents an anger that does not lead anywhere anyway. Moreover, the fact that it has been unleashed against a member of the oldest Parliament in the world, as we know, is significant of the importance of the mission of each Member of Parliament, who finds himself supporting ideas that by their very nature are not approved by all: verbal and dialectical clashes are on the agenda, but unfortunately there are not so few examples of people who have suffered much more than this, as happened in Italy even after the war. Therefore, the thought goes to the entire nation of the United Kingdom, called in these days to a very demanding choice, to all those who actively engage in politics, with sincerity and with great willingness, in the most earnest reprobation of any kind of violence or incitement to violence for political reasons. The death of this very active young Member is an incitement to all those who intend to carry out their ideals with courage and determination in an honest and transparent way, even exposing themselves more than once personally, as happened beyond the imaginable for this young colleague. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u20	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, like all of us in the 5 Star Movement, I was struck by the killing of British Member Cox, of whom I read the last public intervention a few days earlier, which was a condemnation of the United Kingdom, in your opinion, of arms trafficking with Saudi Arabia. [[Applause from Senator Pepe]] , those weapons that are used in Yemen's war also against the civilian population and children, whose denunciation we of the 5 Star Movement have taken on. The murder of Jo Cox therefore struck me particularly, because the day before I read with pleasure this attack on the arms trade, which is present in Britain as in our country, even when it should not be there. I am struck by the fact that Mrs Cox can also be included in that long list of politicians who are fighting for peace. In our history we have many other examples, unfortunately, from Gandhi to Malcom X, to Martin Luther King, to Rosa Luxemburg to many others, such as Olof Palme. They are all people who fought for the affirmation of peace and against the resolution of conflicts with the use of weapons. Alongside those who hold power, it is politicians who do not have the power to be most affected, because they are the most uncomfortable for strong powers. Mrs Cox has also been the victim of the ideology of striking those who disturb the maneuvers in all parts of the world and those who, beyond their own political egoisms, try to revive peace in the world. The 5 Star Movement joins the mourning for this tragic death. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u23	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, our group's senators also bow to the memory of Mr Cox. On the circumstances of his death and this hateful murder there is nothing to say, as everything would be exaggeratedly little or too much. It remains, if not the memory for those who have not had the opportunity to know it, the image of a young person, vital and in love with Parliament and parliamentarism. With this consideration we feel particularly close to the British nation, expected by a civil and democratic confrontation that did not deserve this painful page. But we are sure that even now, as in the past, Britain will be a shining example of democracy and that civil society which is not civil society in the anxious and confused sense of the continent, but something that implies, if not the state, the state and certainly parliamentarism and Parliament, which had so fascinated this very young Member. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u26	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask for a change in the order of business set out in the agenda for today's sitting, anticipating the ratification of the agreement establishing the Asian Investment Bank. I would remind you that this agreement has already been examined in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Emigration and that, unfortunately, it has not been possible to proceed before its examination by this House because of the necessary suspension of the work of last week. I ask for this anticipation because the Board of Directors of the Bank will meet next 25 June (therefore in a few days) and, in the absence of ratification of the agreement, the presence of our Government would not be allowed, and therefore we would miss the opportunity to participate in the founding act of this important international credit institution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u29	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we agree with the proposal to reverse the agenda. I ask only one courtesy of this House: since we have postponed the debate on the motions on bathing establishments on more than one occasion, which we wanted to address today, and this is the item on the agenda immediately following, I would like to ask all the Groups, if possible, to limit the time taken for the general debate and explanations of vote, since ratification is a basically necessary act. This is a vote that you can get fast enough so that you can be sure that you can face the motions on the bathing establishments immediately after and then this afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u30	As there are no objections to this, we are going to reverse the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u31	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2407, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pegorer, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u32	Mr President, the draft law to our attention, already approved by the House of Members, brings, as I said, the ratification and implementation of the Agreement establishing the Asian Investment Bank in infrastructure. The aforementioned Bank, which I will then indicate with the acronym AIIB, is a new financial institution, created on 29 June 2015 in Beijing by delegates from 50 participating countries, with the task of promoting the economic development of Asia, still burdened by deep infrastructure deficiencies, through investments in infrastructure, in particular through financial support operations - loans, equity and guarantees - in the fields of energy, transport, telecommunications, rural infrastructure and urban logistics. Among the founding states, besides of course many Asian countries, there are fourteen countries of the European Union (including the United Kingdom, France and Germany), other European countries such as Switzerland, Norway and Iceland and then three non-European countries, particularly important (Brazil, Egypt and South Africa). On the other hand, they have not joined the new institution, among others, the United States and Japan. The Statute of the new Asian Bank provides for cooperation with other multilateral development banks, in particular with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank and the World Bank. The AIIB, which is based in Beijing and is starting its activities in recent months, will initially have a capital of about 100 billion dollars, of which 20 percent will be paid. A 75% share of the capital is reserved for Asian countries. The participation shares of individual countries have been determined by means of a formula referring to gross domestic product, within each regional area. The largest shareholder is obviously China, followed by India and Russia. Italy is the fifth underwriter among non-regional countries, after Germany, France, Brazil and the United Kingdom. The founding agreement, consisting of a preamble, 60 articles and two annexes, governs - among others - the purpose and functions of the institution (Chapter I), aspects relating to capital (Chapter II), transactions (Chapter III), finances (Chapter IV), the structure of government (Chapter V), privileges and status of management and employees (Chapter IX). The draft law ratifying the Agreement consists of five articles, which have, respectively, the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the share of Italian participation in the Bank, the financial cover and the entry into force. To be noted, Mr President, especially Article 3, which concerns the share of our country's participation. This share is $2.57 billion, of which 20 percent must be paid. The bill then authorizes the Ministry of Economy and Finance to carry out the necessary operations for the financial coverage of the expected burdens. The economic costs for Italy are estimated at a total of 515 million euros, of which 206 for the year 2016 and 103 million euros for each of the years from 2017 to 2019. I would point out that, during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, a number of amendments, essentially technical and accounting in nature, and some important agendas were adopted. Some colleagues had in fact feared the risk that Italian participation in the Bank might pose a threat to our sovereignty or a blank delegation to the policies that the Bank will adopt for the selection of projects on which to invest. By accepting these agendas, however, the Government has undertaken to monitor the allocation of the funds that will flow to the Bank, informing Parliament of this matter, in due course. In the context of participation in decisions on the Bank's main operational and financial policies, the Government will also have to support, where possible, the financing of projects that favour the use of renewable energy sources and the reduction of the human impact, with a view to the circular economy model. In fact, our country's accession to the Institute could constitute an important strategic choice, also with reference to the new global financial framework, marked by the multiplication of the subjects and the same overcoming of the agreements of Bretton Woods, as well as a significant opportunity to enter into the new trade routes that open to the East. For Italy it is also a question of further strengthening economic relations with China, also taking into account the strong intensification of the growth rate of Chinese investments in Italy in recent years, which now affect entire strategic assets and key companies such as Terna, Saipem, ENI, ENEL, Telecom Italia and FCA, just to name a few. Among the medium and long-term objectives of Italian membership are the opportunities offered for the internationalization of Italian companies and the participation in tenders for projects financed by the Bank. The Asian Bank can be an indispensable flywheel to attract the many countries involved by the new silk route, offering them greater prospects for development and the possibility of finally acquiring fixed capital to a very large extent. In this perspective our country is therefore in a position of fundamental importance. As shareholder of the AIIB, Italy will participate in the meetings of the organs of government of the Bank, in which it will be represented by the Minister of Economy, and can have its own representative on the board of the Institution, thus having the possibility to take an active part in the decision-making processes of the new structure. It is pointed out that a rapid ratification of our participation in the Bank would allow our country to be represented, with the right to vote, already at the first meeting of the board of directors that, as has been said earlier, is scheduled for June 25, therefore in a few days. Ratification in a short time would then allow our country to take advantage of the advantages reserved to the founding members, i.e. a allocation of 600 more votes compared to those deriving from the participation of shareholders in the strict sense, in addition to the possibility to contribute to the definition of the summits of the structure of governance, in particular of the executive director and the vice directors. In conclusion, Mr President, it is proposed that the House approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u33	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u34	Mr President, the Bank we are talking about is probably born in the Chinese idea as an instrument to counter the international financial institutions that have always dominated the world stage, such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). In Asia there was another important bank, governed essentially by Japan, almost reproducing an ancient scheme, linked to the domination of the US bloc and its "allies" - so to speak - Japanese. The establishment of this Bank should therefore have served as a staple for questioning those old financial institutions. The problem facing us is that in this Bank, in which Italy wanted to enter, there is once again not only the economic domination of China, but also a strong presence of Germany. We should therefore ask ourselves what policy Italy wants to implement, because that is the real problem. Where do we want to be? Are we still the once faithful Atlantic allies or do we want to try to make a change of pace? You don't understand. The problem is that we are always - as you would say from my side - with two feet in a shoe and we cannot take a definite position that is more or less clear and transparent. In this continuous uncertainty we find ourselves having to decide the Italian participation with approximately 2.5 billion. I repeat that the problem we are facing is to decide where Italy wants to place itself. The Asian Investment Bank, among other things - as we know - will finance the Pakistani corridor, which will allow China to bypass the Malacca Strait block. What are we gonna do about it, too? We ask ourselves: what is the real position that Italy is taking? Where do we want to be? It's not clear. There was someone who in the past could always move in a strange way, when we were friends of both Israelis and Palestinians: of course we are talking about Giulio Andreotti, who in this country has dealt with foreign policy, and not only, for many years. We have always had an intermediate position, but within a clear geopolitical context, that of the two blocs. Now the two blocks are in dissolution. We read that the United States wants to increase its defence appropriations to counter the predominance of the Russian-Chinese axis. And we are once again in a limbo position. The real problem is to understand who we are and where we want to place ourselves: this is why we have deep difficulties to understand well what the position of Italy is. We cannot understand what this participation is for, and perhaps someone will explain to us what its real purpose is to be able to lift a veil and tell us if the position we want to take is that which is acceptable. However, it must be clear why we are doing things: this is the problem that we have to face. We will hear the Government what it will tell us, but the problem we are facing is to understand - I repeat - clearly what the position Italy wants to take in the global geopolitical chessboard to resume its ability to be a strong nation. We are an extraordinary nation, but we have given our weapons completely to someone who is theoretically above us, but does not have the strength, the capacity, the energy, the desire to be like us. So where are we? What are we gonna do? These are the questions that we continue to ask ourselves - later my colleague Mr Bertorotta will make an explanation of vote - and it is good that the Government should explain what we want to do. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u35	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u36	Mr President, I am speaking only to reiterate what has already been said in the report. I believe that the geopolitical and economic context in which Italy is chosen is in itself significant and important. And I think that is the answer to the questions raised by my previous colleague.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u37	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u38	Mr President, I will be very quick because the report - in my opinion - explained what had to be said also in order to address the issues raised in the speech that we have just heard. The context in which we intend to place ourselves is that of the development of international cooperation and the maximum development of trade and trade in a global dimension, in a context in which the overcoming of the old world is a fact, but to a large extent it is still necessary to build those who, in an international dimension, have to manage the new world, the one that has emerged from the overcoming of the old. Building credit cooperation banks adapted to the international dimension - I think, for example, to the Latin American countries that already have such an institution with the participation of our country - as well as building an instrument such as the one that is now proposed for Asian reality is absolutely essential because Italy, in Europe and with Europe - it has been recalled that fourteen countries, together with us, have signed this Agreement for the constitution of the Asian Bank - has the role of balance that it has to play, being one of the main world markets and one of the protagonists of the life of the global economy. There is no need to add anything else, except the choice of large countries (in particular, the United States and Japan) not to adhere to this perspective, of course we consider it a mistake. Joining this proposal does not turn us into enemies of either the United States or Japan. It is an instrument against which those countries have expressed an assessment of their national interests and of the world perspective different from what we consistently support. That's the substance. I do not think it is important to support other assumptions which cannot be accepted in a context in which - I repeat - there are no ulterior motives. This Bank is built to ensure that infrastructure investments in Asia actually take place and develop in a context that is also necessary for our economy. The Bank actually serves this purpose, and that is all.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u39	We shall now proceed to the examination of the articles in the text approved by the House of Deputies. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u42	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, the brief general discussion and the Government's reply have raised interesting points of reference after the good report by the rapporteur, who is responsible for the Commission. At the end of the day, a bank is a bank, as Deputy Minister Morando said. This is a rather special bank, because it fills, with an action and an activity that we will then evaluate over time, a vacuum in that new world that has come to create for the effect of a globalization that we Italians have not always understood in time. In fact, we did not perceive in time how that globalization would inevitably change the destiny of our economy. However, according to the will of the People's Republic of China, the basic idea is to bridge the huge investment gap in the infrastructure sector and develop a new silk route in the wake of an ancient tradition, also economic, that has united our continents, to link Asia to the Old Continent that we are. But how does Italy fit into this ambitious project? Following the example of the United Kingdom, we were among the first European countries to join the project of the new bank, at the same time in France and Germany, aspiring to be founding members and above all to be part of the governance that is the most important thing of this new bank, also taking part, as a member country, in the meetings of the Board of Governors and the first annual meeting of the Bank, scheduled for 25 and 26 June. However, as often happens, although they joined in concert last March, France and Germany were more used than we in ratification and their representatives are already members of that board, while Italy to date is represented only informally. We hope, therefore, that today's ratification will help us to recover this gap. In any case, beyond pointing out the typically Italian trend of arriving last even when we could be at the forefront, my Group, that of the Conservatives and Reformists, as an opposition thinks that on this occasion more than ever our role should be to stimulate the debate on some fundamental issues. Needless to remember, we are in a more than delicate historical moment. The creation of this new institute will inevitably have an extremely strong impact on the global economy, and will compete with the International Monetary Fund - which I consider to be very good news - and with the guidelines of the United States and Japan, which have not joined and have proved very critical from the outset. Like Deputy Minister Morando, I consider this to be a mistake, which repeats other mistakes that have been made in recent years by the foreign policy of the United States and have often confronted our continent and our European Union with very difficult choices. This is an opportunity, and I am convinced of that. The question, however, is this: will we be able to keep our interests fully in mind and maximise the benefits we can and must derive from this opportunity? Will we be able to protect the excellence that is the trademark of the modus operandi of Italian companies, especially of small and medium-sized enterprises, for which the conquest of a slice of the Asian market would be a powerful breath of oxygen? And I say this also because, on the opposite side, the danger is another: Chinese investment abroad is an exponentially growing reality. They have begun with the launch in recent years of an important program for the internationalization of Chinese enterprises. In 2014, Mr President, the volume of Chinese investment abroad had for the first time exceeded 100 billion dollars. And last year Chinese foreign direct investment reached 118 billion dollars, an increase of about 14% compared to 2014 and for the thirteenth consecutive year on the increase, at a rate of about 33 percent annually, according to estimates of the Beijing Ministry of Foreign Trade. Only in the first fifty days of 2016, Chinese industrial acquisitions abroad exceeded the value of 81 billion dollars. And this is the sign of a great vitality. In fact, Chinese experts explain to us that the program of internationalization of the enterprises will have to serve to create a kind of platform in order to increase the presence of the Chinese groups in the global economy. What do we do? In the merger and takeover race, China has a weakness for Italy, so much so that alone it represented 27 percent of all foreign investments flowing into our country in 2014, and that's not a small thing. The list of Italian companies participated by Chinese giants is very long - they are more than 300 - and the investments do not stop. In fact, the acquisition of Pirelli by ChemChina, last year, shows that the shot has been raised and that the size of the investments has become more important. Three quarters of the companies involved are located in northern Italy: 95 only in Lombardy; they follow Veneto with 32 participating companies, Lazio and Piemonte both with 20, and Emilia-Romagna with 14. The largest investment in our country was that of the Chinese energy giant State Grid, the largest electricity company in the world, which in 2014 spent over 2 billion euros to take over 35 percent of Cassa Depositi e Prestiti Reti, which in turn owns 30 percent of Terna and Snam. There is something to make your veins and wrists tremble, thinking about how good policy it takes to correctly place the internationalization of Chinese companies in our country, in such a way that it is in favor of our economy, and what remains above all to be done to best accompany Italian companies in the acquisition of those markets so important. To the extent of Chinese investments in our country is added the massive presence of Chinese goods. We did not understand in time what would happen with globalisation. Although Europe has so far denied China market economy status, it is quite possible that it will be recognized sooner or later, which will mean the removal of the duties that today protect the Old Continent from the Asian manufacturing invasion. The big question therefore remains: how will our country be able to assert itself in such a competitive context? How can you make the most of the opportunity to be a founding member of this body that will be so important for global economic development? How will we defend economic history and Italian companies? With the vote in favour I hope that not only this Government but all the institutions in charge will defend Italian companies, sending competent and capable people to that body, who have at their heart especially Italy, Italy first of all. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u45	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, this draft law leaves us with considerable doubts and concerns. Moreover, even in the colleagues of the 5 Stars Movement of the House, this measure left a certain hesitation, so much so that, in doubt, they decided to abstain in the vote. The Senate, however, abstains is equivalent to voting against and, therefore, we immediately announce our no, but explain the reasons for it. In fact, I immediately wondered why Italy should ratify an agreement establishing a bank that has already been founded in Beijing and, above all, why it should legitimise an international financial institution proposed by the People's Republic of China. According to some observers in the sector, the bank in question should oppose the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the Asian development bank, or the regional bank established in 1966 to propose the development of the Asian and Pacific nations. However, I understand that the Asian Bank, apart from working closely with the aforementioned Asian development banks and the World Bank, also intends to cooperate with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and with the European Investment Bank. But I don't know if you can say that out loud, so let's move on. Already last year someone wrote in an authoritative daily - we of the Movement appreciate it very much, perhaps because it is the only free and free from the logic of parties that even condition its contents - the following: While the weight of Chinese investments in the Peninsula is increasing, the Treasury has officially announced the participation of Rome in the capital of the Asian infrastructure investment bank, designed as an alternative to the Asian development bank and more to the system of international institutions supported by the United States. Personally, reading these few words, I realized that something is not going the right way, or at least it doesn't convince me. Just as we are not convinced by the Ministry of Economy's note, which states that the Asian infrastructure investment bank (AIIB), as a new investment bank that will work with existing multilateral development and investment banks, can play an important role in financing Asia's extensive infrastructure needs. The aim will be to promote economic and social development in the region and contribute to global growth. Now I wonder what really prompted Paris, Berlin and Rome to work closely with European and international partners to establish this bank. Perhaps we of the Movement must say that the truth lies in the fact - I would say not indifferent - that the People's Republic of China also counts significant participations in Saipem, in Assicurazioni Generali, ENI, ENEL, Prysmian, Telecom Italia and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles? Someone wrote that it is quite clear that the Italian decision is not independent of the increasing scale that Chinese economic interests are taking on in Italy. I remind everyone that the Chinese manager, Yunpeng He, entered for the first time on the board of directors of a company listed in Piazza Affari; and I am not referring only to a company with a strong strategic weight; I am referring to the participation of the Italian State Terna, which - as we have well written - has in its belly the electricity grid of our Peninsula. You may wonder why I would so much like to take back that article in the newspaper "Il Fatto Quotidiano" in 2015. The reason is to have understood how the Renzi Government wanted to sign certain agreements with China to do a favor to some participating Italian companies. I remember that the public giant of Beijing State Grid Corporation of China bought for 2 billion euros 35 percent of Cassa Depositi e Prestiti Reti, controlled by Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, which in turn holds 30% of Snam and Terna. I still remember that many other companies in the People's Republic of China have scored 13 transactions in Italy for a equivalent of 4.9 billion. Among other things, I would just like to reflect with you on one aspect that struck me, namely that the Asian infrastructure investment bank seems to have been designed as an institution between governments for regional development in Asia, which has the main aim of offering financial support for infrastructure construction in the developing countries of the region. I repeat: financial support for infrastructure construction. So, we are saying that Italy has decided to promote - among other things, by giving a share of US$2,571,800,000, made up of 80% of capital per call and 20% of capital to be paid - global and regional financial development in Asia, through investment in sectors such as energy, transport, telecommunications, rural infrastructure, development and urban logistics. Too bad that these shares are in dollars - be careful - which still leaves millions of doubts, and have been determined by a formula that refers to gross domestic product. I don't think Italy sails in gold. However, I understand that it is the fifth non-regional country, after Germany, France, Brazil and the United Kingdom to have supported this initiative, which in terms of costs also leaves doubts to budget service experts, who have made the following considerations, especially with regard to call actions. That's how it reads: Whereas the relevant payment is of a possible nature, it should be clarified how and on the basis of what possible timing this commitment can be met in the event that the payment requested as a result of the subscription is necessary. With reference - instead - to the resources used, available in the current account of Treasury 20013, elements should be acquired to verify the effects produced by the provisions under consideration in terms of needs, in relation to the uses of the same availabilities, already discounted for the purposes of the trend forecasts. In addition, it is noted that the technical report states that it is possible to cope with the effects of any deterioration in the exchange rate with the same resources. Apart from all these considerations - I would say of a technical nature - although I would like to reiterate what has been said to the House, namely that the Movement is potentially in favour of an alternative model to the Atlanticist one, we have many doubts about Italy's accession to the Asian Investment Bank. The reasons that drive us to have so many doubts are basically the following: the awareness and concrete perception of how the Renzi Government wants to stand with two feet in a shoe (the shoe is called Italy, while the laces are called China and USA); the finding that the second reading of this measure did not arouse any industrious repentance by the majority, who did not even want to take into account the strangeness of the participation quota of Italy, which - I remind the citizens - will not be paid with current currency, but in dollars, with potential negative effects for our public finance in case of tightening exchange rates. The last reason - but not for importance - is dictated by a conditional use of the day 25 May by the rapporteur Pegorer, when, in illustrating the measure under consideration, he stated that in reality the accession of our country to the Institute could constitute an important strategic choice, also with reference to the new global financial framework, marked by the multiplication of the subjects and the overcoming of the agreements of Bretton Woods, as well as a significant opportunity to enter into the new commercial routes that open to the East, on the so-called new way of silk. Well, just because it could be a strategic choice - and therefore it is not yet a safe choice - the 5 Star Movement does not feel to support a conditional, but prefers to vote no and stay on the ground. Finally, he called on the Commission not to sign any more agreements aimed at curing the interests of the Chinese today or tomorrow of the Americans. Start thinking seriously and effectively about the interests of Italians, since they are ours and your employers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u48	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to declare the vote of Forza Italia in favour of this measure. We believe that our country cannot be cut off from an operation that involves an area with which Italy has a great exchange and that is above all in great development, which is why we certainly do not want to keep us out of trade with its countries. It is good, therefore, to be within such an operation. It was right to anticipate the approval of the measure at the beginning of the sitting, so that we can arrive in time for Italy to be represented at the next meeting of this important body. I note, however, that - as has been pointed out - if it had been done before, Italy would already be represented today, like other countries. And, since Italy has signed together with the other countries - the other countries have not left before - I note that this branch of Parliament, whose legislative function is seen as the main obstacle to the speed and timeliness of the measures - we know well - is preparing the measure under consideration at two meetings of the Commission and in one of the Chamber; everything has been done in a matter of very few weeks, even if it is poor in sessions, for the known reasons. In the House, however, the measure was stopped two months, before the examination began in the Commission, and especially in the Government it was stopped eight months, from signing the protocol to when the Government was uncomfortable to present the bill in Parliament. Let us remember that if things are to be speeded up, the government must, above all, speed up. We give a helping hand, but you can't help it before you do. The government had to wake up first. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u51	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, my explanation of vote will be very brief. Our Group will vote in favour. Mr Pegorer's report, the rapporteur for this measure, has put the reasons well and in a good way. I must say that, beyond anything else, these reasons really lie in the titles on which the articles are concerned and on which our country is called to engage within the institution in question. The titles concern primarily multilateralism, which is a political custom of our country. It's not about staying here or there or choosing which pair of shoes to go into. Our country is a country that, by its very nature, must be in the world with a multilateral vision. If we become part of this bank, it does not mean that we are enemies of the United States and Japan, which are our fundamental allies. On the contrary, it means being in a bank where we are closely following investments in strategic sectors such as - as the statute states - those of energy, transport, telecommunications, rural infrastructure and urban logistics. Who are we with? We are with Europe, because the largest European countries are here. Why do we have the fifth stake in this bank? Because ours is the fifth gross domestic product among the countries that participate in this society. As bad as we can talk about this country, among all the tour company that intervenes (and there are very strong players), our country is much considered. Finally, I say that I share Senator Malan's somewhat critical remarks about the timing, which we have already seen several times for other measures. However, the timing in this case does not particularly complicate the situation, because the first meeting of the Board of Directors is scheduled for June 25 and, therefore, we are in time to be fully on the board of this bank, expressing what is up to a member such as Italy and expressing it while with the Bank the negotiation is obviously going on in the technical, legal and legal offices. I declare the Democratic Party's vote firmly in favour. [[Applause from Senator Pegorer.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u54	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u55	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u56	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00539, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators, 1-00579, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators, 1-00580 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00582, presented by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, 1-00586, presented by Senator Tomaselli and other senators, and 1-00595, presented by Senator Barani and other senators, on maritime and lacual state property concessions. I call Senator Gasparri to explain motion No 539.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of bathing concessions is the subject of a wide-ranging debate which I realise can be considered marginal by those who do not follow the subject. In fact, it covers thousands and thousands of enterprises that operate almost all over the national territory, since there are many Italian regions that have coasts on which they have seen growing activities. (17.41) (Follows GASPARRI). Moreover, also the regions with important lakes have such activities in the lake areas, which in recent days we have seen to be very trendy after the events of Lake Iseo; therefore, also the inland regions, besides the coastal ones, can be interested in the issue. The main theme is whether companies operating in these areas must continue their activities, often very ancient. There are areas of historical tourism: I quote those of Versilia, which were among the first in Italy, in the past century and perhaps even before, to develop tourist activities that then gradually extended to other parts of the country. Who for decades, some even for more than a hundred years, practicing activities, paying fees, responding to a whole series of needs and also carrying out activities of environmental protection or even of rescue of bathers, and therefore carrying out a socially appreciable function, can or not continue this activity? I would like to make it clear immediately that, as far as payments and fees are concerned, the debate can be opened. Are there cases where you pay too little? Probably. Moreover, sometimes in Italy we find that even in large metropolitan areas real estate assets and houses in valuable areas are available to people (important or common) for a few euros. It is therefore possible that there may also be cases of concessions or too little fees. Therefore, from this point of view, it is right that payments should be commensurate with the potential for economic revenue. But let's say that, for Italy, this kind of activity represents a specificity. We are discussing this issue because the famous and infamous Bolkestein directive - it has created controversy and disasters also for the activity of the local markets, which must be subject to competition, because it too must be regulated with principles of absolute competition - also applies to bathing companies. The European Union says, therefore, that we must race, probably opening up this field too, which sees small or very small companies present, many family members, who have obviously seasonal earnings, being an activity that cannot be carried out all year round, as is absolutely clear. Well, this sector could also be shocked by the tendering procedures, which could also see the participation of wider organisations. There are even those who speak of multinational companies specially equipped to propose better conditions, strong of their size, capable of spreading burdens, costs or prospects of gain on larger structures and on longer times. Therefore, the families Brambilla, Rossi or Bianchi that, in Salento, in San Benedetto del Tronto, or in Versilia, in Liguria or on the Lazio coast carry out this activity, could easily be put off the market. Our motion No 539 has triggered a debate that we are finally starting, after having been postponed for several weeks and having been patiently waiting for another issue to be discussed today. We have seen that the other groups have also presented motions which seem to converge on certain objectives, but only apparently. And I'm referring to the motion of Senator Tomaselli and other Senators of the Democratic Party. We will therefore have to clarify this point with today's debate. Senator Granaiola has also participated with me and other parliamentary colleagues in dozens of assemblies throughout Italy with operators in the sector, representing an occupational resource, an investment resource, an economic and productive reality. It is said to focus on tourism, culture and the reception of our nation, which suffers in the industrial sector many problems, from the progressive movements of FIAT, to the issues of the environmental impact and pollution of ILVA. Somewhere you will have to work in Italy, safeguarding the environment and avoiding the cementification of the coasts. Everything we are discussing is in the light of existing laws, which prevent speculative activities. If someone builds structures that don't comply with the rules, the mayors have to take them down. This is obviously obvious. There is no question of impunity for any speculation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to address you. Often it has also been played in media communication, through the information service of some news and radio. I have seen that Giovanni Minoli deals with the struggle and campaign against the beaches with great fervor, although I believe that he could do other things on Radio24. He compared these concessions to the sale of the Trevi Fountain and every time we discuss the topic the TG1 airs the famous image of Totò selling the fountain. However, nobody wants to sell the Trevi Fountain: the property of the coast remains to the State and it is a matter of regulating the activities that take place near the coast, allowing the State to obtain more revenue with extensive and long concessions. So if anyone sells the Trevi Fountain, in this case it's the State and not Totò and Nino Taranto. There may be a greater collection by the state with rules. It is objected that it is Europe that is asking for this. That is enough to say that it is Europe that is asking for it. I say this on the eve of the vote in England - and I am going to do so, Vice-Minister Zanetti. We don't know what's gonna happen. We have just commemorated the murder of a British Member of Parliament, who has rightly upset British public opinion and the whole international community. This fact can also have a reflection on the vote, of which we do not know the outcome. If I'm not mistaken, we'll vote in a couple of days. If Europe wins to stay in Europe and not Brexit, Europe has had to accept a number of conditions from the United Kingdom. If Europe wins the yes, things will not remain as they are, because Cameron and the British Government that support the stay in Europe have obtained a different regulation not on bathing concessions or on aspects not primary to the life of a state, but on welfare and social security rights and assistance of immigrants. I appeal to those who have gone to Europe and have not negotiated anything, such as undersecretary Gozi and others. I'm glad that Senator Granaiola makes signs of assent, we'll see when we vote. Vice-Minister Zanetti, Europe gives in pragmatically to Cameron saying: if you stay in Europe and commit to vote yes, we will make some concessions to you on important aspects. Why do we have to live up to the bathing concessions or the local markets? Excuse me, what the hell country are we? Let's go negotiate. I am for Europe to remain united. Do you know why? We are 500 million people, while in China there are 1.5 billion and in India 1,100 million. If Europe breaks down, we will have nothing (we are 50-60 million inhabitants and in other countries even less) and we will have a broken Europe. The Chinese have already bought Pirelli, Inter and perhaps Milan, while the Americans have bought Roma (but they are not rich enough Americans). I wouldn't want my country to be bought in small pieces. I therefore call for these motions to be approved and for the debate to continue. We call for an extension of concessions, as has already been decided years ago in the Stability Act, with an amendment tabled by myself. Europe does not agree with the extension of concessions. And then you argue and you shop. We have a specific feature in the bathing sector, unlike, for example, Norway and Ireland. Due to particular climatic, environmental and historical conditions, the bathing activity is present in the south of France, Spain, Greece and Italy and not in all the countries of Europe. So, we can and must invoke a specificity. In our motion - and I do not go into detail - we mention the fact that Portugal and Spain have legislated, giving concessions lasting seventy-five years and beyond. [[Call the president back.]] Just give me a minute, President Calderoli. I'm about to finish. Why is it that Spain - which is now a country that votes every six months and no longer knows who governs it - or Portugal, being in the European Union, gets derogations for their bathing activities, with long concessions, and we do not? Why does Britain, in order to remain in Europe, take advantage of the improved conditions on extremely sensitive issues? We can stay in Europe and say that we have specific features. After that, how is the free market guaranteed? Do the activities cover the entire Italian coast? It is true that access to the beaches must also be guaranteed to those who do not pay the ticket: this is another speech and mayors and municipal administrations must commit themselves to allowing everyone to reach the coast without having to pay anything, if they do not want to pay anything. Therefore, we do not propose privatisation. To race for new operators, however, there are many stretches of coastline without bathing activities. It is not that you have to build with cement to put the bed or umbrella; there are removable structures, which at the end of the season leave no trace. Race for new entrants in areas where there is no activity. But the activities that exist, for which investment has been made and which have created employment, must be safeguarded. So, in conclusion - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - we call on our motion to allow an extension and to commit the Government, on the basis of what Spain and Portugal have done in this field, to obtain conditions which correspond to our specific nature. In Europe someone will have to defend the cod fishing, someone else will have the Bavarian beer to protect and we have the beach businesses, which are a resource and a wealth of this country. If then someone acts against the rules, he is thrown into jail, the concessions are taken away from him, but you cannot demagogy, generalizing, in a sector such as the one under consideration. This is an important issue, which concerns the country's employment, tourism and real economy. So, we are dealing with the daily reality of the country. The tourist season is underway and even today many people have worked on all our beaches. Parliament protects this sector with clear, certain and transparent rules, and with appropriate charges for market revenue. It will also be a way of responding to that accusation of distraction that so often, rightly, is addressed to the political class. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u58	I call Senator Centinario to explain motion 579.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u59	Mr President, I will quickly explain this motion, partly because Senator Gasparri's presentation of the matter totally agrees with us and is in line with the text that we have tabled. At this moment the problem linked to the Bolkestein directive is one of those that is most afflicting the tourism sector and especially the seaside sector, with 30,000 concessional companies operating daily in Italy, to which are linked the families of workers and the many entrepreneurs, families of workers and the future of many entrepreneurs who are currently making income for our country. They are in serious difficulty and are in danger of closing from today to tomorrow. As we have said on more than one occasion, the European Union once again shows itself blind and acts as a single bloc, which fails to understand the specificities of each country that is part of it. In the case of Italy, the situation of the seaside businesses is really risking collapse and it is really in danger of bringing the tourism sector to its knees, of which all of us who make politics are often talking in the electoral campaign, but of which, when we arrive in the classrooms - from the City Council to the parliamentary assemblies - we forget. Today we have the opportunity to demonstrate to our fellow citizens, to those 30 000 citizens who are waiting for an answer from the Government and this Parliamentary Assembly, that we want to give that answer and that hope, which everyone hopes to see implemented as quickly as possible. The time at my disposal is really short: a few weeks ago, together with 48 fellow senators, who are part of the majority and opposition, we presented a bill that is currently in the senate's attention: I know that Senator Granaiola and Senator Gasparri did the same. They all go in the direction of protecting our beach businesses. We hope that something can be done with the approval of the motions before us and we hope that we can go in the direction that all those who work in this area will be able to take. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u60	I call Senator Petraglia to explain motion 580 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u61	Mr President, Directive 2006/123/EC, the so-called Services Directive, has identified the competitive regime as a system for providing services and carrying out commercial and intellectual activities, with the aim of allowing the free movement of services and guaranteeing freedom of establishment. In particular, the Directive contains provisions aimed at promoting transparent and accessible competition for the various operators, including in the bathing sector, which is considered to be subject to tendering and, therefore, to public evidence procedures. Unfortunately, the Italian legislation has proved to be immediately in conflict with the Community provisions, and the legislator in the last ten years has addressed the issue through transitional provisions based on the principle of extension, totally questionable from the point of view of legitimacy, but above all lacking a long-term vision for such a strategic sector for our country. In recent years, in order not to take responsibility for making choices, an ambiguous regime has been created for economic operators, causing repeated conflicts and judicial disputes during the automatic renewal of concessions as well as procedures of public evidence. On more than one occasion, the administrative courts, called upon to regulate disputes, found in automatic renewals a possible unjustified restriction on freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services, not allowing operators to compete in fair conditions, through impartial and transparent selection procedures. In particular, the reference is made to the TAR Sardegna and the TAR Lombardia, which have considered the automatic renewals very extensive and potentially guilty of subtracting goods of considerable economic importance from the market. The administrative courts also appealed to the Court of Justice of the European Union, raising two questions for a preliminary ruling, in order to verify the compatibility of national legislation concerning the automatic renewal of concessions with Articles 49, 56 and 106 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, with the principles, therefore, of freedom of establishment, protection of competition and equal treatment between economic operators, as well as with the principles of proportionality and reasonableness. The Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union has already commented on this question, which made the general conclusions on the case at the end of February 2016. The conclusions do not constitute a legally binding act. However, in the vast majority of cases dealt with, as many as 12 form the basis for the subsequent judgment of the Court of Justice. The Advocate General of the Court of Justice confirmed the doubts of the administrative courts regarding the compatibility of automatic renewals with Community legislation, confirming that the Directive does not allow such operations. The exploitation of public maritime and lake property is in fact included among the services covered directly by the Directive: due to the limited number of authorisations available due to the limited nature of natural resources, it must be managed through impartial and transparent selection procedures, with a limited duration. It is emphasized that the matter dealt with concerns goods and resources of particular importance in our country, such as the beaches, the seas and the lakes. In addition to the need to ensure competition, as provided for in Community legislation, other considerations should prompt the Government to intervene in order to modify the existing legislation, in order to ensure not only the greatest possible transparency in public selection procedures, but also the guarantee of full accessibility for all citizens to the maritime and lake public property and the protection of the environment and the sea. At the same time, it is necessary to provide that the arrangements for the allocation of state property do not entail risks for workers engaged in the sector, but rather represent new opportunities for job growth, that there are strict limits to the number of concessions that can be awarded to the same person and that appropriate forms of compensation for the investments made are defined and that the professionalism acquired is taken into account. For these reasons we ask the Government to engage, with normative participations, in order to modify the national norm in order to avoid a new, umpteenth, procedure of infringement for our Country, and to activate itself so that in the aforementioned contests they are introduced criteria in a position to guarantee the full accessibility from the citizens to the public property marine and lake, the protection of the environment and the sea, resources of exceptional importance for our Country, and the protection of the occupational levels. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u62	I call Senator Bruni to explain motion No 582.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u63	Mr President, I too will not go back to the arguments and premises that have been well illustrated by Senators Gasparri and Centinario with regard to the ratio of these motions. I resume, as did Senator Petraglia, the chronology of the various measures and the various regulatory events that have followed until today. In addressing the issue of state concessions, we have unfortunately started from the communication of the infringement procedure of the Bolkestein Directive in 2008, followed by a series of interventions by the legislator, I would say quite farraginous, mainly led by the various governments, initiated by Law No 217 of 2011, and especially by Article 11, which had introduced the hypothesis of delegation to the Government to rediscipline the whole issue of state concessions. That delegation to date has never been implemented and exercised by the Government. In the meantime, further interventions have simply been aimed at ensuring that, until now, in 2016, the target of the next extension, which should be the last, set for 2020. It is clear that all this uncertainty and this regulatory production, as I said, on the one hand emergent and on the other certainly farraginosa, has not created certainties towards the bathing operators and has left a very messy situation regarding which the State has not made a great figure. Let's think only of the fact that this matter has been repeatedly the subject of interventions and normative novelties, beginning with Legislative Decree no. 112 of 1998, with which they had conferred to the Regions the functions of management of the property, better codified with the reform of Title V of the Constitution of 2001, but with a whole series of ulterior uncertainties in the various passages and in the exercise of the various delegations from the Regions and Municipalities. Faced with this rather complicated regulatory framework, we must first put ourselves in the shoes of the beach entrepreneurs, who sometimes run very small, family-run businesses, and of the people who operate in the tourism sector with activities complementary and ancillary to the tourist, accommodation and hotel sectors, which are, as was said before, very important in all the European countries of the Mediterranean basin. Such activities cannot be abandoned to themselves. It is somewhat as if, in the event of having to implement other regulatory principles, which may also be descended from the European Union, at some point it was decided to close down all the catering activities, or at least to tell those who work in the tourism sector that there are no more certainties compared to the times and methods of operating their business. In our motion we say not only that we must get to implement the delegation in the best way guaranteeing those certainties and those perspectives that have generated the confidence towards bathing entrepreneurs, but also that, in addition to the extensions of small cabotage that have been realized so far by the legislator, we can think of a further extension for the activities today in existence, differentiating the same regarding the new concessions. The latter must be implemented in full implementation of the Bolkestein Directive, following the criteria and principles inspired by it and complying with public evidence tenders. At the same time, however, efforts must be made to ensure as much as possible that this phase of transition with current operators is achieved. In particular, I would point out that, with regard to operators who were to be subject to the withdrawal of State concessions, another of the principles which have not yet been implemented is that of fair compensation. This was also one of the principles to which the Government should have been held in the exercise of the delegation of December 2011. Our motion seeks to solve this problem even with the introduction of this double track or trying to emulate in the most virtuous way examples easier to follow such as that of Spanish or Portuguese legislation. The motion seeks to resolve the whole issue of state concessions and, above all, to meet the situation which has been determined over all these years on maritime property, even with these changes of competences, which we must ask ourselves a question and we must try to give an answer. The State, on the one hand, is concerned about complying with the rules that come under Community legislation; on the other hand, it must raise the question of how to manage maritime property irrespective of state concessions. If we believe that the maritime property is among the common goods to be protected as much as possible, we must address the problem of the real management of the maritime property that is not allowed. The reform of Title V on the legislative and regulatory competences entrusted to the Regions has meant that the municipalities should take care of this matter. Well, let's see what resources the municipalities have to manage the portion of ungranted maritime property, the coastal belt, the appliances and the ancillary parts behind and to manage the safeguard, the cleanliness and the protection of those stretches of coast that are not the subject of state concessions. With what resources can the municipalities cope with all this if the proceeds of those state concessions go to the State, and the Regions and the Municipalities are not guaranteed even a small part of the proceeds of these state concessions? How can offices, property and cleanliness work in the most dignified way that is not the one proper state property, but the stretches of coast behind? Several times it has been raised, not only by the seaside operators, but also by all those who have faced this issue, the legitimate doubt of the effects of these public evidence races that could bring on our coastal territories large business groups that can certainly have a greater economic strength and frustrate the tradition of these enterprises that have wagered the destinies of their families and tried to optimize the management of these stretches of coast. Well, in the face of this risk we have to ask ourselves a few more questions, and even more so, we should ask ourselves in the face of the fact that competitions with procedures that lead to the maximum increase can favour interests, sometimes even biech, which certainly cannot coexist, for example in the Central-South of Italy, with that healthy tradition of small beach managers and stretches of maritime property that have perhaps provided management as a good family father does, to use a term borrowed from the civil code, trying to bring to a better solution the concession of a public good. Please note that, as the Council of State affirmed in a judgment of 2012, maritime property is not ex if a productive good but it is the company of the concessionaire that gives the public good a productive destination or, melius, to incorporate the public good into the private company. For these reasons the motion asks the Government, in compliance with the principles of competition and freedom of establishment, to ensure the exercise, development and valorization of business activities and the protection of investments in the tourist-sea sector, to implement any useful initiative and to provide, with the first useful measure, for the renewal of that legislative delegation not exercised and descending from Article 11 of Law No 217 of 2011. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Granaiola to explain motion No 586.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u64	Mr President, the famous and super-disputed Bolkenstein directive of December 2006, all these years (almost ten) has taken away sleep and fantasy from more than 30,000 companies, those in the bathing sector, which are a fundamental reality for the national tourist system, and for two legislatures to those parliamentarians who, living on the coast, have had to deal almost daily with a problem whose solution has seemed and seems never to have come. Buffalo solutions have been found from time to time that have allowed us to close the infringement procedure opened by the European Commission, or extensions have been obtained that were basically palliative cures for the health of bathing companies, drowned in the legal uncertainty and anguish of not knowing what would happen. The last, the extension to 31 December 2020, called into question by two appeals to the TAR of Lombardy and Sardinia, for which we are waiting for the decision of the European Court of Justice and the recent opinion of the Advocate General of the Court, have thrown into total discomfort our dealers, with a summer season that moreover is unable to take off given the climate change and the disasters that the various bad weather have caused along our coasts. I mean, after ten years, we're back to square one. That strong and determined action was not made in Europe by all political forces; the necessary alliances were not found which needed to be made clear that the incriminated Article 12 of the Directive, according to which where the number of permits available for a given activity is limited due to the scarcity of natural resources or the technical capacity to be used, the competent authorities are required to apply a selection procedure ensuring transparency and equal treatment of potential candidates. Therefore, Article 12 cannot cover our state property concessions and the reasons are above all these: these are concessions of goods and not authorizations that condition access to service activities; the good is not limited, since on about 8,000 kilometers of coast, only 2,500 kilometers are allocated in concession. Other EU countries, in particular Spain and Portugal, have adopted measures which do not take account of the directive and have not yet been subject to infringement procedures. The path that this Government has begun in Europe therefore needs strong support from the whole of Parliament and an impetus that asserts the specificity of the Italian case and its uniqueness at European level. Above all, we must not wait for the decision of the Court of Justice to be frozen. It would be a renunciation attitude that would certainly not help to arrive at a positive definition of the cause. That is why we have decided to present this motion which traces the history of the affair, which is now known to all. I would like to remind you that a similar motion had also been tabled in the previous legislature, which is based on some fundamental principles: the urgency to put in place all the necessary actions for the extension to 2020, established by Law No 221 of 2012, to be confirmed and therefore the necessity for the concessions in existence of an adequate transitional period that allows first of all the Agency of State property to carry out a reconnaissance throughout the national territory of the state property and marine goods available and not yet used for tourist-recreational purposes. I'd like the Deputy Minister to listen to me. Excuse me, but it is important: an adequate transitional period, and therefore long, would allow the Agency of the State property to finally make a reconnaissance throughout the national territory of the maritime property available and not yet used for tourist-recreational purposes, otherwise you can not understand how you can say that it is limited resources if we do not even know how many concessions can be granted. Moreover, it is necessary to allow coastal and coastal municipalities to update or prepare the plans for the use of the beaches (the so-called PUAs), allowing the absence of new concessions and therefore to collect new charges and related regional taxes; to define fair and sustainable charges for all the bathing enterprises, resolving once and for all the dramatic problem of the current pertinence concessionaires, eliminating from the calculation of the latter the IMO coefficient, also through the introduction of solidarity criteria, also suggested by the trade associations; to allow the Government to act in the Community, making the European Union aware of the peculiarities that characterize the enterprises of the tourist and seaside sector in Italy and for which different solutions could be identified from those provided for in the Directive services, obtaining from the European Commission the green light for the application of the aforementioned transitional phase by virtue of the specificity of the sector, characterized by significant material and occupational investments, of its uniqueness at European level, of the reasons of general interest, safety and environmental protection provided for by the Directive itself as factors of exclusion, the existence of the freedom of establishment due to the vastness of the natural resources present along the Italian coasts and resulting from the development of the economy in order to create a major occupation; In fact, I really challenge to see what mayors will be who, in the event of a negative ruling by the European Court of Justice, will have to face the invitations to tender for the existing concessions. We cannot avoid the need for an overall reordering of all matters which take account of Community principles, but also the specific nature of our bathing system, which is very diverse throughout the national territory, and which also takes account of the measures taken in some regions. In this regard I would like to mention the regional law n. 31 of 2016 of the Tuscany Region, containing urgent provisions in the matter of maritime state property concessions, issued with the aim to enhance the landscape and the identity elements of the coastal belt through the qualification of the tourist offer - bathing with the aim to create adequate and homogeneous conditions of development for micro, small and medium-sized tourism enterprises - recreational operating in the state-owned and maritime environment, improving the quality of the structures and services for bathing, improving the accessibility to the sea and enhancing the environment of the Tuscan coasts. I would like to point out that this law has been shared by the ANCI and many other regions. In essence, with the motion submitted, the Government is asked to use the remaining period until the end of 2020 expressing in Europe a strong political position aimed at reopening a negotiation, also through alliances with other countries that have already activated on the issue, in order to protect our bathing system, defending the legitimacy of the extension to 2020, in line with the defense carried out by the same Advocate of the State. So it is not a pilgrim's request: the State Advocate himself defended this position. The Government undertakes to evaluate with the European Commission the reasons for the different treatment given to other countries of the Union (as I said before), which have had extensions of seventy-five, fifty or thirty years, depending on the typology; to verify with the European Commission the possibility of distinguishing, within the framework of its own guidelines, the concessions currently in force from the new ones, in particular in relation to the duration of the first ones and the definition of selection procedures to be applied immediately for the second ones. [[Call the president back.]] Sorry, Mr. President, I really need to finish. In essence, a commitment from the Government is asked to: verify the possibility of a double track, which sees a different path and different procedures for the existing concessions and for the new ones to be attributed; to convene a table of confrontation with the Regions and the local authorities; to adopt as soon as possible a normative intervention to reorder the matter; to provide criteria and modalities of reliance of the new marine state property concessions for tourist-recreational purposes in compliance with the principles of competition, of freedom of establishment, that take into account the professionalism acquired in the exercise of the same concessions; to preview, in relation to the aforementioned innovations, an adequate transitional period for the concessions in existence of marine state property. Of course, when reference is made to an appropriate period of time, not five or three years, but, at least, it seems to me that an appropriate period cannot be less than thirty years. It is necessary for the Government to establish the criteria for setting the minimum and maximum limits for the duration of the new concessions and to establish for the concessionaires requirements and requirements to prove compliance with the standards and requirements in the field of construction, town planning, landscape, sanitation and, above all, the possession of professional and moral requirements by the concessionaire. In fact, the danger feared by colleagues who have explained previous motions is that races could become very attractive for those who need to "wash" dirty capital. Moreover, the Government should provide that the concession is revoked or cannot be renewed if the concessionaire cannot demonstrate compliance with the requirement of morality and the absence of relations with organisations of a mafia or criminal nature; it must establish the procedural modalities for the eventual forfeiture of the concessions, as well as criteria and modalities for the sub-entry in the assumptions of sale or rent of the company. It is appropriate for the Government to identify the criteria and modalities for the allocation of the lapsed or revoked concessions and the modalities for the collection and the division of the proceeds deriving from the canons between Municipalities, Provinces and Regions; governs, without prejudice to the free access to the beating, the hypotheses of use or use of the state property areas. I would therefore like to conclude, Mr Vice-Minister, with the hope that all the motions that have been tabled can be adopted because, basically, they all contain - I say absolutely all of them - the intention to protect our equipped bathing system, which, I repeat, is unique and not repeated in any part of Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u65	I call Senator Barani to explain motion No 595.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u66	Mr President, it is obvious that for our Group, too, the effects of the so-called Bolkestein directive on services in the internal market on state property concessions for tourism and bathing purposes have, since 2006, been a cause for strong debate and also of concern to operators in the sector and represents something that is still unresolved in the legal landscape of our country. My previous colleagues - from Senator Granaiola to Senator Gasparri - are right to say that the issue has again jumped to the attention following the recent formulations of the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union, who, starting from two specific Italian cases, said that when concessions are limited due to the scarcity of natural resources, the Bolkestein Directive prevents Member States from automatically extending the expiry date of concessions for the economic exploitation of public property. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian legislator, aware that the economic activities of thousands of operators, even small ones, who do not have the characteristics of the great international giants operating in the tourism sector, but who have also made large investments over time to improve services, also carrying out a function of control and maintenance of our coasts, has foreseen an extension to 2020 of the existing concessions, not intending at all to violate the Community directive, not constituting this an automatic renewal mechanism, but simply an extension until 2020 of the duration of the existing concessions just to avoid the great earthquake that would have resulted among operators from an ex-abrupt application of Bolkestein. Colleagues, the Bolkestein directive - which owes its name to Dutch politician and economist Frits Bolkestein, who obviously did not know the thousands of state-owned coasts we had - in 2006 was rejected by the then European Parliament, and then reappeared as a form of negotiation between the political forces. Let us not forget - I regret to say this - that at that time President of the European Commission was an Italian named Romano Prodi. Therefore, we must not forget that we have hurt ourselves by listening to those who did not know our coasts, like this politician Frits Bolkestein, who, by the way, colleagues, participates in the meetings of the powerful of the Bilderberg group (we saw him in Stresa and Toronto). The big international groups, the big economies, wanted to take on the activities that gave work to hundreds of thousands of small Italian companies. Portugal and Spain have done well to say no, and we must therefore tell the Government that it is committed to giving us again a pride that we have. It is easy for me to say that an Italian statesman had said that, well that she had gone, with the European Union, listening to the countries overlooking the Baltic, it would be hell, but it is proof that Bettino Craxi was also right in the application of this directive at the time. Some may object that ten years have passed since 2006 and that this time could be considered sufficient for the cushioning of the costs incurred by the dealers, but this is not always true; indeed, for our coasts, for our entrepreneurs it is not true. On the contrary, the release or renewal of state property concessions, precisely because we realize their strategic importance for national tourism, over the years have been conditioned to the presentation of increasingly modern projects, increasingly attractive from the aesthetic point of view, more and more in tune with the rules of environmental sustainability, which has resulted - and rightly - enormous investments for whose remuneration certainly cannot suffice a decade of activity. It is therefore necessary, colleagues and representative of the Government, for the European Union to realize these circumstances and above all to realize that we cannot cooperate in the destruction of a national small business fabric, with the inevitable occupational repercussions, if the Italian dealers who have already served at the origin of the public evidence procedures, who have already competed with other operators and who have gained extensive experience in the field, will not be able to count on a reasonable period of extension that crosses the 2020 deadline that Italy has already foreseen in order to allow dealers to return from the investments made. But there is more, colleagues. Our responsibility as legislators - which is so much - must look very carefully at what could happen to our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs when they have to compete with the big giants of global tourism entrepreneurship. It's no small thing. We, as a Group, believe that we must exercise this capacity for prophetic representation of the situation and act in Europe to bring these aspects to the proper light. This is where we call on the Government to roll up its sleeves and, of course, to protest and make sure that at European level they hear us, no more and no less than they have heard France and, above all, Spain and Portugal. I would remind you that, when there was mediation to approve the Bolkestein directive, the French Socialists did not vote for it, because they thought it would harm their business and their coasts, which are also very developed in France. Therefore - and I conclude, Mr President - we are in favour of all those motions which commit the Government to taking action in any way to ensure that this important sector is not overwhelmed, that the employment levels of the operators in the sector are safeguarded and that every useful intercourse is supported with the European Union to make it clear that nobody here wants to violate the Bolkestein directive, but that, to tell the Neapolitan, nobody is a fool here and that we have a system that must travel painlessly and with the necessary time towards the new perspective indicated by the Bolkestein directive. If it takes another decade, we have to take it all. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u67	I communicate that G1 agendas have been presented by Senators Uras and Floris, and G2, by Senator Serra and other Senators, whose texts are being distributed. I call Senator Uras, to explain the agenda for the G1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u68	Mr President, I will not repeat many of the things that have already been said, because I agree with them. On the other hand, I would like to address this issue from another point of view, which we point out on our agenda, namely the quality of our coasts and, therefore, the need to protect them. They are a landscape and environmental good of the highest level and of great value; they must therefore be protected, because they are an integral part of our economic capacity in the field of tourism. We have done this in Sardinia, for example, by introducing a landscape plan that protects and enhances the coastal structure. We did this because perhaps in Sardinia there are some of the most beautiful coasts not only of Italy and Europe, but of the world. It should be remembered that, of the approximately 7,500 kilometers of Italian coasts, in Sardinia there are more than 1,800, almost 1,900, the majority of which are usable. Through country planning, we have introduced rules that require the definition of coastal plans. In making the coastal plans, we have preserved access to the sea; we have protected important parts of the coast for tourist-recreational use absolutely free from any kind of constraint, including that of the state property concession for tourist-recreational purposes, so we have an optimal condition, also from the point of view of the installation of small and very small companies - sometimes micro-enterprises - that manage these goods and guarantee services. To think that there may be such a differentiated regime in Europe that some countries, such as those of the Iberian peninsula, are also superguarded in the management of their state property and other countries, like ours, should be penalized, it seems absolutely unacceptable to me. I am therefore thinking of the possibility of managing state property in a productive way and with the time needed to amortize investment and properly organise the tourist-recreational service, especially on the coasts; well, the fact that these times must be systematically called into question, rather than being the subject of heavy sanctions by the European Union, seems absolutely unacceptable to me. Therefore, we first of all ask for uniformity, in the absence of which every country, including ours, must preserve its coasts from aggression, especially on the landscape-environmental front. I ask myself and ask the Government if it has any idea what the coasts of the North Sea are, those that belong to the Netherlands and Germany; it is therefore very simple to compete for state concessions to be exploited in Sardinia, because those sardines are of value. Therefore, they cannot be extorted without hurting the citizens of Sardinia, who already pay prices that are now unbearable even in terms of rights (I think about territorial continuity) and in return have the same duties as others, indeed more. It would therefore be desirable for State concessions to become an asset to be managed together with everyone, so also with the Germans and the citizens of the Netherlands who have few coasts and with all the citizens of continental Europe who do not even have outlets at sea. This does not work and can not work if in Sardinia we take the weight of military servitude for the whole country and we have the greater number of servitudes compared to all the Italian Regions; it cannot work if our landscape-environmental assets become a market area for Germans, French, Hungarians and so on and instead we are not even entitled to define a system of aid. To the Undersecretary and the Deputy Minister I say that the State should wage a battle in Europe to guarantee to the Sardinians the same mobility rights that the citizens of other countries have: the Hungarians, the Germans, the French and also other Italians. The thing that doesn't work is always being called to a particular duty and, at the same time, always being excluded from everyone's rights. Do we want to say that there is a right that is recognized, perhaps on equal terms, to the micro, small and medium-sized Sardinian companies that must act in the context of the tourist-recreational state property concessions that concern our coasts? Do we want to say that we have the right to safeguard - indeed, to improve - our employment levels from this point of view? Do we want to say that those who were born and live in that Region are led to manage this good with a different attention from that of the speculator? Do we want to say that these things must be put on the table at Community level so that the European Union is finally a Europe of citizens, peoples and regions? Do we want to say this or do we want to suffer discrimination every time on duty and the privilege of others? That's what the government has to say. The Government must say on which side it stands: whether from that of the Italian citizen, of the Sardinian citizen and also, in this sense, of the European citizen, addressing these issues with a balance that allows the recognition of all rights so that there is an effective equality of duties. We want to save our Region from speculative aggressions and we are one of the few Regions to have made country planning. We have protected access to the sea and free beaches and it is not good for us to be associated with the speculative aim that is being made in Europe, nor to offer our coasts to others who have nothing to do with us. Mr President, on the agenda we refer to the aspects which, in our opinion, must be accepted by the Government, which we ask to respect the spirit in which we have presented this act, namely the safeguarding of the rights of our citizens, our country and our region.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u69	I call Senator Cioffi to explain the G2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u70	Mr President, the G2 agenda starts with some data, which we should remember. The data tell us that the fundamental law in the matter of maritime state property concessions is the law 4 December 1993, n. 494, adopted under the Ciampi Government, which, among other aspects, provided for four types of areas: state property appliances, low, medium and high tourist value. This law was subsequently amended in December 1996 under the second Prodi Government, when the number of classes rose from four to two and it was decided to give priority to the identification of the value of the B-band concessions, with a low tourist value, which - it is good to remind everyone in this House, but also those who are outside - pay concessionary charges of 1.3 euro per square metre per year. Concessions granted under Law No 494 have been automatically extended by six years in six years since 1993 to date. So, we've been living with automatic extensions of concessions for exactly 23 years. It is very strange to hear in this House what Senator Gasparri and Senator Granaiola have said, which seems to me to converge completely. There is a total sharing of souls and feelings towards the supporters of the bathing dealers, which must be respected - yes - but the citizens' right to go to the beach without paying the famous gabella must be respected. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is also important to think that it is not possible that there are people who exploit maritime property and that for seventy years they have always been the same; When will you open your mind to the idea of races? When will you have the courage to say that in this country competitions are held? We are not talking about the Bolkestein directive, we are talking about races. I can tell you're allergic to competitions! Perhaps you are a little, because with the races the balance is shifted and because, at the end of the day, all this debate comes from an electoral march. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Evidently you didn't realize that the election you lost, because you're poor conservatives, you're this stuff here! We propose an agenda of sound common sense - because we must do this, Mr President: we must put healthy common sense back at the centre - in which we call for competitions to be held, for concession fees to be raised and, among other things, we also call for the protection of Italy's main interests, because Italy has so many beaches and it would not be nice to think of being colonized by someone who comes to exploit them. Perhaps we should protect the right of the citizen and not those who have been granted concessions for 70 years and we should ensure that someone does not come from outside to take our beaches. When we run the races, we must also be very careful that concentrations do not form, so that the power of the shift can not use, once again, the financialization of the system to profit on our beaches. That is what we are asking for with the agenda that we have presented. I already know that you will say that our agenda is not acceptable and that is why you will soon be going home. And when we rule, we'll show you the green rats! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u71	I declare the debate open. Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the motions before the Senate Assembly raise the question of the renewal of state property concessions for tourist-recreational purposes, which concern bathing establishments, but also hotels, campsites, marinas and moorings. We are talking about an important economic sector: for the concessions of bathing establishments we are talking about about about 30,000 companies, with 300,000 direct jobs. With the induced, consisting of small and medium-sized enterprises, today in crisis because the sector does not invest precisely because of the climate of regulatory uncertainty, we certainly approach almost one million jobs. After the European Parliament launched the Bolkestein Directive in 2006, the European Commission, in 2009 with the infringement procedure, put Italy in default, noting the incompatibility between Bolkestein and the national rules concerning the renewal of maritime and lake state property concessions. Without evaluating the consequences, in order to close the infringement procedure, with two legislative interventions Italy has has hastily repealed the legal bases constituting the certainty of the State concessionaires, that is the right of insistence, that is, the preference for the outgoing concessionaire, and the automatic renewal of the concessions of six years in six years. Since then, due to the climate of uncertainty created, dealers have been experiencing the most uncertain period of their long history, stopping investments at the expense of an improvement in the overall tourist offer of our country and the negative results are proving it. Concessions due to expire in 2009 have also been extended, with a first deadline to 2015, then moved to 2020, with the commitment for the Government - but remained inequipped - to legislate on the reorder of the matter by October 2014. Up to now there are unofficial texts, on which various ministries work, which, if unfortunately implemented, would lead to the end of the Italian bathing sector. The comparative studies of the norms of the various countries of the Union, carried out by the European Federation of bathing enterprises, show different procedures and rules. Let's see, for example, what happens in Portugal and Spain, which are today our biggest competitors in seaside tourism. In Portugal, for example, in 2007, when transposing a European directive, water law was passed, where there is the right of the outgoing concessionaire to be preferred over other competitors. The renewal provides for the duration of the existing concessions up to seventy-five years and, I stress, no infringement proceedings have been carried out so far. Let's see Spain. In 1998, after a wretched policy of urbanization of the coasts, the Government blocks all kinds of intervention with the law of the coasts, which goes to regulate and protect the coastal Iberian environment, demanializing (expropriating) everything that had been built on the coast, but granting in exchange to the owners, a concession of thirty years with expiration in 2018. In 2012 then, with the imminent expiry of the concessions, the concessionaires, operating a strong action of lobby within the EU, have obtained from the European Commission the ok for the same law, prodromic to a new law of the coasts, that previews a dry extension from thirty to seventy-five years of the concessions in existence, without procedures of public evidence imposed instead for Italy practically during the same period of time. But that's not all. The implementing regulation of the Spanish law grants preference to those who have continued to pursue their activity with an expired or on-going concession, to be exercised within six months of the entry into force of the law. It should be emphasized that the Spanish Constitutional Court has endorsed the constitutionality of the new Iberian law of 2013, also in relation to the extension of the state property concessions, well arguing that the state property concession is constituted as a title of occupation of the public property and that therefore it is a trust of a public good and not of a service. Therefore, in Portugal as well as in Spain, there is the clear will of the legislator to protect and enhance the tourist enterprises of the coast, which represent a strategic sector for the Iberian and Portuguese economy. Even for Spain, no infringement procedure has been in place since 2013 and it is not difficult to predict that it will ever be open, since the law of the coast protects the interests of many German, English and Dutch investors. A first reflection is that it is indisputable that the dealers of these Countries today have a clear advantage over the Italian ones, because of the certainty of the acquired enterprise with a substantial extension, that allows them planning, investments and improvement of the tourist offer. As demonstrated by the Portuguese legislator in 2007 and by the Spanish legislator in 2013 there are therefore technical and legal tools to find the right solution, but without the political will they remain unworkable, provoking contrary opinions of technocrats who, without a guide, take possession of this role. Never, as in this moment of economic crisis, do our companies need to be protected and defended by the Government, where there are more and more failed hoteliers who decide to convert their receptive activity to the much more convenient and profitable one of the reception of immigrants, most of them illegal, creating a devastating damage especially to the neighbouring hotel facilities. It must therefore impose the primacy of politics, a policy which, on the other hand, on more than one occasion has shown all its disruptive scope: from the undisputed overcoming of the budgetary constraints by leading nations (such as France and Germany itself) to the extension of the motorway concessions, approved by the Italian Government with the release of Italy, on the assumption of the performance by the same public functions. The European Union, also on this issue, demonstrates every day more that it is inadequate in the face of the many challenges that are ahead, compared to the pursuit of the objectives initially set for the construction of Europe by the founding fathers, whose dreams and ideals have been betrayed. Europe is incapable of managing immigration, and ahead of political union the pursuit of a monetary union that, every day more with its corollaries of economic policy focused on austerity and cuts to the public budget, has plunged an entire continent into a recession that is impoverishing entire populations and states, in a crisis of development that we cannot see the fund. The Brexit and the decision of the Swiss Parliament to cancel the application for membership of the European Union are an alarm bell not to be underestimated. Today, therefore, the Italian Government must make courageous choices, capable of defending the vital and healthier substratum of the Italian economy, that of the small and medium-sized enterprises that constitute the sap of the national productive apparatus, which must be defended by the attack of a system of codes and norms that come from an organism, the European Commission, politically not responsible because it is not elected by anyone. This body has placed at the heart of the European Union's economic policy the interests of the great financial oligarchies of the Old Continent and beyond. We believe with conviction - and that is why the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group have tabled a motion - that our beach businesses also deserve an extension of the concession and the recognition of the commercial value of the company, as provided for in the Treaty of Nice. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u73	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as is well known, in January 2009, the European Commission opened infringement proceedings against Italy concerning the rules on the custody of maritime state property concessions, as they were contrary to the Bolkestein Directive. This directive is part of an attempt to increase competitiveness and dynamism in Europe and highlights some of the economic freedoms already present in the 1957 Treaty of Rome. In fact, the Bolkestein Directive does not intend to regulate the wide range of services in detail, but leaves it to the Member States to decide how best to apply the principles set out. In short, the directive supports freedom of establishment in order to simplify the applications of those who wish to establish themselves in another country of the Union to provide services, as well as the freedom of movement of services for those who move from one country to another temporarily. However, we note that, despite the fact that the directive has been implemented in Italy by legislative decree n. 59 of 2010, still today it is not allowed full freedom of movement and complete freedom of establishment. In order to close the infringement procedure, as well as to respond to the need of market operators to take advantage of a stable regulatory framework that, in accordance with Community principles, allows the development and innovation of the tourist-seaside-recreational enterprise, thus overcoming the Commission's findings, Article 11 of Law No 217 of 15 December 2011, abolished the automatic renewal and delegated the Government to issue, by 17 April 2013, a legislative decree aimed at revising and reordering the legislation on maritime state property concessions. The deadline previously set for the enactment of the legislative decree was extended to 15 October 2014, but it is still not issued today. It is serious that the successive governments in the last three years have not yet provided to formulate a legislative solution that meets the needs of about 30,000 companies operating in Italy, that give body and life to the seaside tourism sector that represents a fundamental economic lever of the coastal zones of the Country. Italy is a tourist attraction for the extraordinary relationship with the sea, for the marine landscape of unsurpassed beauty, which is particularly extrinsic in the South and the islands, but also the North, which overlooks the Tyrrhenian Sea and the Adriatic, is of incomparable charm. The Bolkestein Directive involves consumer services, such as services in the tourism sector, including recreational services, sports centres, amusement parks and tourist-bathing establishments in our territory. The full disapplication of the Directive has led to the Court of Justice's involvement in certain initiatives by regions which have engaged in various litigations in the regional administrative courts which, in turn, have decided to raise a preliminary question to the Court in order to verify the compatibility of Italian conduct with Community law with regard to the legality of the extension of State concessions. In view of the ruling of the European Court of Justice, some regions are trying to reconcile the needs of bathing entrepreneurs with the indications of the directive. In this context, it would appear plausible to envisage a transitional period appropriate to reduce the negative impacts resulting from a sudden change in sector discipline, as in other European countries as well. As stated by Section VI of the Council of State, which expressed itself in the judgments of 2012 and 2014, the transitional discipline appears to be the result of a reasonable choice of the national legislator, aimed not at circumvention of the Community provision, but at a more effective implementation (...) of the principles it affirms, while at the same time allowing the current concessionaires also the depreciation of investments. The interpretation of this judgment of the Council of State could exclude the application of the Bolkestein Directive to the tourist-sea and recreational sector since the state property is not in itself a productive asset, but it is the concessionaire's company that incorporates the public good into the private company. It is, therefore, the company of the concessionaire and not the state property area the site physically found on which the company insists to produce services. The concession of goods of the maritime property does not take place, in fact, for the acquisition of services from the granting authority, but is granted simply the good, that is, the maritime property, for the supply of a private service, not public, since the bathing establishments are considered tourist enterprises by article 7 of the law n. 133 of 2001. With the motion tabled by the Conservatives and Reformists we would therefore like all the beach businesses, organizers and providers of tourist services on the shores and shores to breathe a long sigh of relief. It is important for the seaside tourism economies to have certainties about the investments already made to encourage them to make more of them, in order to implement the local economies which, as is well known, form the national GDP, within which the tourist segment is increasingly important in order to increase employment, especially the youth one. Illustrating the reasons for the motion, Mr Bruni explained that he wanted to safeguard the specific Italian. In short, small and medium is beautiful, a concept that in itself evokes the Italian holiday in the touristic imaginary of the global markets.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u75	Senator Rossi Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u76	Mr President, they are quite different from this House. Maybe I recognize myself more in what Senator Cioffi said earlier. To explain this, we must look at the whole system with which concessions are given in Italy. Concessions in Italy are given in the interest of dealers, not in the interest of citizens: this is the first point. Let me give you some examples, but not of the bathing establishments, because I have already made enemies in the field of ports and in that of the local broadcasters and I will now do so also in the context of the bathing concessions. The fact is that if we continue to want to give concessions as they are given in Italy the country has no future. Take for example the field of highways: the company Autostrade for Italy, which already has a concession that expires in 2035, has the courage to ask for an extension of seven years until 2042 in order to realize the Gronda of Genoa, whose costs is already charging for ten years on the entire Italian highway system. That's really crazy. As for the docks of the ports, finally the minister Delrio is working on the regulation previewed from law n. 84 of 1994, that is after twenty-one years, to say how the docks must be assigned. While this is done, as soon as it is come to know, all the harbour Authorities intervene and grant extensions of sixty years, ingressando the Italian harbour system, and the first extension is granted in a city and in a Region where the vice president of the Democratic Party, Debora Serracchiani is in charge. Meanwhile, the Minister says that he does not give concessions because the regulation is about to be issued. What's going on? These extensions of sixty years not only ingessano the Italian harbour system (and fortunately to Genoa this has not been done also for merit of the president Merlo), but they involve also that the concessionaires, which will be assigned these docks, in order to let in external subjects will be able to sell the society valorizing the decades that they have of concession. These are gifts that Italy gives to any gentlemen, to some dealers. I'll tell you about the TV frequencies: you think that the local broadcasters paid for a TV frequency of 20,000 euros and a channel was broadcast with analogue. Today, on a television frequency eight channels are broadcast and you pay 12,000 euros. It should be paid 100,000, because local broadcasters should get together, have a single frequency and part it again, and the problem of frequencies in Italy would have been solved. No, he didn't. Why did he do that? Because it was necessary to halve even more the concession fees to RAI and Mediaset, canons that have not only been halved, but it is even worse: Italy is the only country in Europe that has said no to the so-called 700 band, which Europe now wants to make available to broadband, and must go on until 2020-2022. And while France has launched a race for the 700 band and has cashed more than 3 billion euros, in Italy it is said that it would not interest anyone. Well, when the CEO of Telecom came to the Commission I asked him: is it true that if there were a tender for the 700 band you would not be interested? He replied that the following day they would participate in the race, the fact is that they do not release it. And all parties agree on that. The fact is that you don't know the sectors or pretend you don't know them. In my only parliamentary term I have learned that the concessionary system is the primary evil of this country, because it works exclusively for the benefit of dealers. Arriving at the speech of the beaches, there are well managed beach resorts, but how many are badly managed? And we want to grant an indiscriminate extension to everyone? But for what reason? By the time a deadline was set, the dealer knew when she would arrive. If he made investments, he would have had to make the calculations, knowing when the concession would expire and at that time he would have to think that a different legislation could have been reached. Is there amortization to be done? Take the balance sheets and look at what depreciation is. Or are they fictitious, in words? I tell you, for example, about the situation in my city, in Genoa: there is not a meter of free beach. It is not possible to go for a bath if you do not pay for the entrance to the bathing establishments. Then the time for the expiry of the concessions would also be the time to actually redesign the system, with balance, as laid down by law, without two rocks being given as a percentage of free beach, unequipped, dangerous, unassisted, dirty and so on. That is the situation that should be addressed. Of course some realities need to be defended. I am very pleased, for example, with what has been written in our Group's motion, the Mixed Group, that no more than a number of concessions can be added. This seems very correct and very fair. It is not possible to think that we continue to give concessions for thirty, forty or fifty years for anything in our country, among other things at very low costs, because the country loses it, which could collect a few hundred million euros more. We renew the concessions on 8,000 kilometers of coast to those who already have them, the portions of coast already entrusted, the problem is not going to see if the coasts given in concession are managed well or badly: this is not considered. Moreover, if I were an entrepreneur who runs a bathing establishment well, I would mind the idea of an indiscriminate extension; I would perhaps be in favour of five years of extension in order to understand what the systems can be to decide who is entitled to maintain the concession, under certain conditions, and what concessions cannot go on. In fact, in the concessionary system, as happens for the ports and as I say for a year and then it has been confirmed by the Council of State, we must ensure that in the races there are adequate values for the public good that is assigned and that is not owned, otherwise we speak of fake privatizations. At this point we sell the goods directly, which we do first. The fee must be adjusted and those participating in the tender must make a commitment to make certain investments and these investments must not be words, but must be guaranteed as employment must be guaranteed. Who says that if we race the bathing establishments doesn't increase the number of employees? Who says that it does not increase, for example, the number of months in which beaches could be used in places that can absolutely use bathing establishments and beaches for even winter periods? There must be precise guarantees of investment and employment, and this can be done not with an indiscriminate extension, but only through a race, perhaps - and I would agree with that - giving the right of pre-emption to those who have already done well and not indiscriminately. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Baptist]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u77	She is registered to speak Senator Saggese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u78	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate Assembly is today called upon to examine an act of direction on a seemingly second-floor subject but actually very significant for the economy of our country. Beyond what can be said in this House about the purpose of the concessions, the bathing establishments (and this is a fact) are a fundamental sector for Italy, given the geographical conformation of our peninsula and the particular attitude to tourism of our coastal towns. The economy of entire areas, especially in the Mezzogiorno, is strongly affected by the revenues of the tourist-bathing sector, all the more so given that it is often a community whose social and economic survival is based solely and exclusively on bathing tourism, given the lack of industrial development and the weak presence of other business sectors. In maritime tourism, other colleagues have said it before me, there are about 30,000 businesses, many of which are family businesses. These are families and businesses that have been facing a crossroads for a long time. They risk seeing all the efforts made over the years and losing the investments of a life, all because of responsibilities that are not in any way attributable to themselves. We are therefore at a turning point for the sector. The regulation requires a general rethink (the framework law dates back to 1993) in the light of the entry into force of the well-known Bolkestein Directive which, by preventing the automatic renewal of concessions, effectively leads to the overcoming of the so-called right of insistence, which had characterized the Italian legal order. In 2009, the European Commission opened an infringement procedure in the light of the relevant rules, contesting their compatibility with EU law, in particular with the principle of freedom of establishment. The Commission considered that the Italian rules constituted discrimination against undertakings from other Member States which were in a position to be hindered by the preference granted to the outgoing concessionaire. Despite the delegation to the Government, contained in the Community law of 2010, to issue a legislative decree concerning the revision and reordering of the legislation relating to the maritime state property concessions, there has been no firm commitment so far. A clear and clear political will to intervene in this area has probably been lacking so far. Finally, decree-law n. 179 of 2012 has arranged an extension until 31 December 2020 of the concessions, but it is to all obvious - and not by chance we are here to discuss it today - that the topic of the marine state property concessions is dragged by now for too many years and the enterprises that operate in the section are subject to a deep normative uncertainty. I think that the most difficult thing for companies is not to know what reference rules to cling to in order to plan their business. We are therefore at an historic moment. We have an important task, to be able to transform a constraint into an opportunity; we have to come to a general rethink of the regulatory framework of reference and we have to make an effort at this time to balance the different interests in the field: the interests of operators, users and the country-system, in order to allow the seaside sector to continue to be driving and strategic for our economy. Therefore, surely in compliance with the Community principles on transparency, non-discrimination (we have heard it repeated here also by our colleagues), freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services, the enhancement of business activities and the recognition and protection of investments, business goods and commercial value, our political commitment, our guiding line, must go in the direction of establishing rules that can enhance the landscape quality and all the identity elements of our coastal areas and our bathing establishments. They are not all the same: they have characteristics and peculiarities that make them unique and make our coasts unique. The effort we should make is to be able to enhance these elements of ours. It is clear, then, that the preparation of selective procedures cannot represent a way to leave the operators in the "balia of the waves" (and never comparison was more appropriate): it is necessary, therefore, to approve a transitional norm for the concessions in existence, that takes into account the investments real estate and infrastructural already carried out, the commercial value and the professionalism acquired in all these years and guarantees their recognition and refreshment at the end of the concession. It seems to me that the double track strategy can be the only one that allows the implementation of European rules on freedom of establishment and, at the same time, allows concessions to be awarded on the basis of a comparative procedure, without putting on the knees companies and families that have been operating in the sector for years and that with their work contribute, as well as to ensuring the surveillance of the coasts and the protection of the coastal natural environment, to maintain the tourist interest of the many places that the whole world envys us. The time is therefore of urgency, and, given the urgency, we urge the Government to be promoted in all national and supranational fora, of targeted, effective and timely interventions. The summer season has now begun and the seaside sector needs a regulation that regulates it permanently and stablely. Companies in the sector, already subject to the mood of the sun at least a minimum of regulatory serenity, must be returned in order to be able to make all investments, both instrumental and in human resources, adapted to company planning. My hope is that the approval of the motions before us today, which are largely shared by the whole of Parliament, will soon lead to a Government's commitment to the definition - together with Parliament - of a secure regulatory framework for our operators. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u79	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to give an opinion on the motions and agendas that have been presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u80	Mr President, before I give my opinions on the motions and agendas, I would like to sum up a number of important aspects, which have also been addressed in the previous speeches. First of all, it is clear that the reorganisation of the entire issue of maritime state property concessions with tourist-recreational purposes, as also pointed out by the senators who have intervened, presents Community-wide profiles concerning the procedures for allocating these concessions, in the light of Directive 2006/123/EC of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market. The internal legislation on maritime state property concessions for tourist-recreational purposes was contested by the European Commission, which initiated infringement proceedings against the State No 2008/4908 on the ground that it did not comply with Article 12 of that Directive. In the light of the observations of incompatibility with the Community dictation, article 11, paragraph 1, letter a) of the law of 15 December 2011, n. 217, has repealed the provision that provided for the automatic renewal of the concessions in expiration and has also delegated the Government to adopt a legislative decree with regard to the revision and the reorganization of the legislation relative to the marine state property concessions. As a result of that legislative intervention, the above-mentioned infringement procedure was closed on 27 February 2012. For the sake of completeness, it should also be noted that the 15-month deadline for issuing delegated legislation has been repeatedly extended. Finally, Article 34- duodecies of Decree-Law of 18 October 2012, n. 179, converted by Law No 221 of 2012, provided for the extension until 31 December 2020 of the state property concessions outstanding at the date of 30 December 2009 and due to expire by 31 December 2015. This concerns the reconstruction of the regulatory framework. Having said that, it must be pointed out that Minister Costa has recently highlighted how the guidelines bearing the criteria for the enactment of a delegated law for the general reorganization of the maritime property, which are the result of an in-depth confrontation and a close negotiation with the European Commission, and that they have developed as a result of the so-called Bolkestein Directive, in order to avoid the perpetuation of legal-legislative mismatches that may result in further infringement procedures. The internal work is being carried out within a technical-political table, in the State-Regions Conference, in which all the authorities involved participate, open to the contributions of the local territorial authorities, hearing also representatives of the associations of category of dealers. In detail, the main points mentioned for the time being in the guidelines are those that we go here below to summarize and that, in my opinion, coincide with many of the observations that have been placed here and transfused into the motions. Firstly, on the subject of the criteria and methods of relying on concessions, they are closely linked to the public interest, the enhancement of business activities and the recognition and protection of investments, business assets and commercial value, ensuring impartiality and transparency, as well as landscape quality and environmental sustainability. In these guidelines will also take into account the professionalism acquired in the exercise of concessions for tourist-recreational purposes. Secondly, the plurality and differentiation of supply in the territorial areas of reference will be guaranteed. Thirdly, there is provision for an appropriate transitional period for the application of the reordering rules, including in relation to the innovations to be introduced, including a refreshment, in the case of sub-contracting, inversely proportional to the duration of the transitional period. These are all issues that have been raised in the course of the debate. Finally, the revision of the grantor's fees is being considered, with the application of direct estimate table values according to the peculiarity of the grantor's licences, which allow to overcome in particular the criticalities related to the identification of works of easy or difficult removal and the application of the IMO values to so-called pertinential dealers. This is also a point that was raised during the debate. Moreover, as is well known, the State property appliances, i.e. those built over time by private individuals in concession areas, which are forfeited by the State at the natural expiry of the concessions, for which it was therefore planned to pay, from the date of renewal of the concessions themselves, a specific fee, initially fixing it to 300 percent of the unit measures for its calculation. Law No 296 of 27 December 2006 provided that the State Property Agency would re-determine the annual fee for the concessions hosting such structures, introducing a calculation system commensurate with market values. So it has been produced in fact, as evidenced also from the Agency of the State property, a remarkable increase of the canons, not related to the context of the other marine state property concessions, causing situations of insolvency difficult to heal. All this said, with regard first of all to the motions submitted, with regard to motion No. 539 at the first signature of Senator Gasparri, the Government proposes, on the first commitment, the following rewording: "to verify with the European Commission the implications of the specifics of the regime of maritime state property concessions in Italy, in relation to what happens in other European countries". With regard to the second commitment, the Government proposes the following rewording: "to provide for an appropriate transitional period that accompanies the state-owned tourism-recreational concessions in place towards the full application of the new discipline, in order to the protection of own companies and the relative occupational, economic, social and cultural effects. As for the third and fourth commitments, the Government welcomes them in the proposed wording. With these rewordings, the opinion is in favour of motion 539; otherwise, the opinion is against it. With regard to motion 579 at the first signature of Senator Centinario, the first point of the device is asked to expunge it. The second point is proposed as follows: "to provide for an appropriate transitional period that accompanies the state-owned tourism-recreational concessions in place towards the full application of the new discipline, in order to protect their own companies and their employment, economic, social and cultural consequences." The third and fourth commitments are accepted in the proposed wording. With these amendments, the opinion is in favour; otherwise, the opinion is against it. With regard to motion 580 (text 2) at the first signature of Senator De Petris, the opinion was in favour of the first undertaking. As far as the second commitment is concerned, we would like to amend the expression 'to set a short time limit' by setting an appropriate time limit. As regards the third commitment, the opinion was in favour. With this single rewording of the second commitment, the opinion is in favour of motion 580 (text 2); otherwise, the opinion is against it. As far as motion 582 was concerned, first signed by Senator Bonfrisco, the opinion was in favour. With regard to Senator Tomaselli's first motion No 586, the opinion is in favour of the first commitment. On the second commitment the following rewording is proposed: "to verify with the European Commission the implications of the specifics of the regime of the maritime state property concessions in Italy, in relation to what happens in the other European countries". The favourable opinion on all the following commitments: Therefore, with this only rewording on the second point, the opinion is in favour of Amendment No 586; otherwise, the opinion is against it. With regard to motion 595 signed by Senator Barani, on the first commitment the Government proposes the following rewording: "to continue to pursue a negotiation path with the European Union in order to verify the applicability to the topic of the state-owned bathing concessions of the double track criterion (i.e. to distinguish the concessions currently in force from the new concessions), in order to effectively protect our bathing system, characterized by wide specificity of the sector and by significant material and occupational investments, which make it a uniform at European level." With regard to the second commitment, the Government proposes the following rewording: "to verify with the European Commission the implications of the specificities of the regime of maritime state property concessions in Italy in relation to what happens in other European countries". I am in favour of the third and fourth commitments. With these rewordings, the opinion on motion 595, at the first signature of Senator Barani, is in favour; without these rewordings the opinion is opposed. As regards Senator Uras' first-signed agenda, the following rewording is proposed on point 1 of the proposal: It will report to the Senate on all initiatives it intends to take to support the legitimate demands of the operators in the sectors mentioned in the Treaty. On point 2, the opinion is in favour of the proposed wording; on point 3 it is proposed to amend the wording: "to extend the current concessions" by the following: "to provide for appropriate transitional arrangements." On point 4, the opinion was in favour of the proposed wording. With these rewordings, Senator Uras' opinion on the agenda at first signature is in favour; without it, the opinion is against it. With regard to the first-signed agenda of Senator Serra, the opinion was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u81	Since the rewordings proposed by the Deputy Minister are rather complex, in order to allow verification with a written text, I refer the continuation of the discussion of motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u84	Mr Ruvolo (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of this House a well-known news, that is, what happened in Sicily about a week ago. Around 5,500 hectares were fired due to fires: 3,748 hectares of forest and 1,878 hectares of Mediterranean scrub. After what happened in Pantelleria, devastated by fires, a moment of great difficulty was created on the island: for those who live in that reality is an apocalyptic landscape, an extremely dramatic fact. The president of the Region, Crocetta, has made accusations saying that there are certainly speculations and has evidenced that behind those facts there is the so-called mafia of the pastures. It is possible, but it is not possible to reduce everything to these general statements, without making an honest reflection on what happened. He announced that he will buy drones, tanks and all that is needed to put out the fires; however, knowing very closely the Sicilian regional bureaucracy, so that all this can be achieved will take at least five years. We are at the beginning of the summer and two very serious fires have already occurred, as I said in the preamble. The structure of the Sicilian Region is organized in a regional forestry body that has at disposal means dated at least twenty, twenty-five years. These are tanks that do not work and means of any kind, now dated, that are absolutely not enough to be able to cope with normal fires, imagine in the presence of sciroccal winds, as happened. What do you have to do? I would like to explain a proposal, Mr President: a national coordination must be created immediately and the Forest Corps of the Sicilian Region must immediately move to the State Forestry Corps in order to better coordinate. Enough, then, with the regional bodies. I'm talking about Sicily. Perhaps there will be very virtuous regions from this point of view, but as far as I know in Sicily there have been truly majestic errors, which I would call horrors. There are no minimal factors to set up a fire-fighting system. The only thing I can say is that in the Sicilian Region there are disorganization and corruption. I repeat: corruption. This is where we have to go to set up tomorrow morning's emergency. Other than drones and tanks. In five years' time, maybe there won't be a tree in Sicily. Only seasonal forestry will remain, Mr President, because now there is one for each tree - I make a self-criticism, which I think is very appropriate - and when there are no trees, only forestry will remain. That's what we have to do. It is also necessary to organize a perpetual control of the forest system, including with the secret services, because Sicily has been devastated and destroyed. It's not a fire, period. I don't know if it's gonna happen again that there's a self-combustion, but the fire happens because there are arsonists. It may well be that there are side activities of those who do this job, but it is up to the judiciary to do this work, which must be accompanied by a profound restructuring of the Regional Forestry Corps. These are the considerations I wanted to make, because Sicily - believe me - has experienced a drama in some areas. Thanks to the images projected on television you may have seen the spectral picture, but lived closely it was a human tragedy. Mr President, I trust in your sensitivity that this issue will be brought to the attention of the appropriate offices (unfortunately no one from the Government is present) and that we can resume a path of hope for this territory, which cannot live a perpetual emergency because under current conditions, the Region of Sicily can absolutely not cope with what happened a few days ago. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u85	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-641.ana.u86	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 22 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.40 p.m.
