ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Di Giorgi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 7 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, this morning there was a very serious accident between two convoys travelling in the opposite direction on a single track on the Corato-Andria route. The first news coming from the site of the disaster gives the picture of a tragedy of terrible proportions. According to a first budget, which is still temporary, there would be at least 20 deaths and dozens of injuries, many of them in very serious condition. The images show cars crumbled in impact, pieces of sheet metal flown for tens of meters in the countryside on the sides of the tracks on a railway line used mainly by students and commuters. Once the rescue work has been completed, it will be necessary to clarify the dynamics and causes of the accident so as to prevent tragedies like this from happening again. To the victims of this disaster goes the emotional thought of the Senate, united with the mourning for families, the wounded the wish of a prompt restoration, to all those who are giving themselves in the rescue work our sincere thanks. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u11	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, since 11.30 a.m. this morning, the press releases have followed with incessant pace, to the point of becoming real war bulletins, which have transformed the territory of my region between Andria and Corato into a center of attention all over the world. Even international newspapers have dedicated special spaces to comment on what happened and bring back the aspects of a real tragedy, a tragedy of incredible proportions that has been delivered to us with images of a real apocalypse: two trains that have collided along a single track at a high speed. Colleagues and colleagues, this is not the time to extend your index finger by accusing anyone. This is the time to express our profound closeness to all the families who have lost their relatives, to all the families who, in these hours, have the heart tribulant for the conditions of the wounded and I believe that, alongside this thought, must also be added a note of appreciation for the generous mobilization of all the volunteer forces and for the timely and timely organization of the health services of the territory, which have arrived on the site of the tragedy to lend relief with efficiency and timeliness. However, we must necessarily postpone to a very short time a deepening on the motivations that have caused this tragedy, in a region that remains absolutely marginalized because of the infrastructural gap that penalizes it. While talking about the Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP), in the Regions of the Mezzogiorno they continue to maintain in function unique tracks, on which runs the life of commuters who chase spaces of their future, unaware to go instead to face death. Mr President, thank you for giving a moment of attention to this human tragedy which commits our consciences. The disturbing case requires in-depth analysis and evaluation even after listening to the words of the Government that - I am convinced - very quickly will want to be present in the Chamber to provide details of what is too simple to define a human error and that deserves to be deepened, so that immanent tragedies of this kind no longer have to be repeated. [[Applause from Senator Bruni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u14	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, the Senators of the Lega Nord and Autonomy Group join in their condolences for the victims of this immense tragedy that has struck our country in the transport sector. Honestly, we professionals thought we had already seen enough accidents in our country, accidents that we no longer wanted to see, such as that of Viareggio and that of Murazze di Vado, which are the two biggest accidents to which, due to the number of victims and wounded, we unfortunately have to add that of today. This is the moment of mourning and closeness to the families and in particular to the wounded, whose number, alas, we believe is unfortunately destined to grow. As my colleague has just said, we must, however, make a thought with judgment and criterion, especially those who, like us members of the Commission, have always dealt with the transport system. Our country is certainly among the most performing ones, in Europe, with regard to high speed; we have invested in high speed almost all the resources we had available and today Italy is competing with other countries. However, Mr President, a reflection must be made on local transport and the transport system for commuters, whose services - we know very well - do not possess the quality they should have. I do not say this in polemical terms, because it is absolutely not the time to make controversy and we too have shared, over the years, the investments made, but we must make a reflection on the quality of the service that we must offer. As has been mentioned, there are sections, especially in the Mezzogiorno, with unique tracks and also Liguria is connected to France via a single track, which is international and this is absolutely not good. We should commit politics wisely so that we do not, as today, count dozens of victims. We hope that the bill will stop at the 20 victims reported from the news, because we would not like to reach the 32 victims of the accident in Viareggio or, even, the more than 40 victims of the accident in Murazze di Vado. We express our solidarity with those involved in the accident. We know that at these times the Government is also engaged, as we have heard from the President of the Commission, that it is in constant contact with the members of the Commission. We hope that this issue will cool down as soon as possible, but the situation is very worrying. In conclusion, I repeat our full solidarity with the people of Apulia and the people who, unfortunately, today have to count victims within their families. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and CoR groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u17	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, this is the time of mourning and we are close to the families of the victims and to those who are grieving over the fate of the wounded. Let's say a thank you to those on the spot who are doing their work, as servants of the state or as volunteers. There is a biblical figure in what has happened, because those are the lands of suffering and strength, that suffering and that strength that a great Apulian painter, Domenico Santatore, has caught in the faces of the inhabitants of that Province and of those municipalities, faces dug like the trees of the olive trees that shore that landscape and that report a life that is based on a peasant civilization whose trait has never failed and that modernity has never managed to eliminate. It comes to mind, seeing the scenes we have seen on television, to quote Thomas Flower and his people of ants, that people of hardworking people, that people of people never tame and never tired, that people that can be crushed by something greater that dominates it. Well, that bigger thing we can represent with the antithesis between the one track on which the two trains were travelling and the computer that didn't work. Something that brings us back to the backwardness of those lands and something incredibly modern. This opposition, Mr President, is the distinctive sign of the region which I perhaps love more than any other and which is the hallmark of the whole of the Mezzogiorno. I repeat that it is not the moment of the controversy and therefore these words do not even want in a veiled way to recall it, but of unique track and the need to overcome it, we who come from there have heard all our lives, since we were children and it is still a tragic reality today. I believe, Mr President, that, if this tragedy makes sense, it is also to draw our attention to a part of Italy, the South, which cannot become what Corsica is for France: a ball in the foot without a chance of redemption. The gap between the different parts of the country, on the other hand, makes us imagine. But if the South doesn't grow, Italy doesn't grow. That is why, Mr President, this is a tragedy that hits the whole country even more, its contradictions and its delays. Finally, by renewing our sentiments of condolence and closeness, I ask the Government, as soon as technically possible, to report, so that next to this moment there may be a necessary moment of political confrontation. [[Applause from the PD, LAG (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), FI-PdL XVII and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u20	Mr Iurlaro (AL-A). Mr President, it is not possible, it is not conceivable, it is not fair. It's not fair to die like this. It's not fair to say goodbye to a son, a father, a mother, a friend. It is not acceptable to witness unarmed tragedy of this size, which today has shaken my Apulia, has shaken Italy and has shaken the whole world. It is not possible, no, it is not even possible that in the next few days, weeks and months you should attend the usual discharge of the responsibilities that, in the morning of today, have caused one of the most serious tragedies lived by my Puglia in modern times. It is right that we now think of the wounded, that we think of the victims; it will be right in the near future to guarantee adequate assistance to those suffering; it will also be right to guarantee certain times, clear responsibilities: names and surnames. It will be necessary to understand what has happened and to promise - this is a commitment that I make to all the institutions, to the government, to the entire political class - that what happened today will no longer happen. To the wounded goes my embrace, mine and that of the entire Assembly of the Senate, even today a little 'distracted and noisy, at such a difficult time for many families and for the whole of Italy. To the families of the victims goes our deepest condolences and our commitment not to leave this tragedy unpunished. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u23	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of such tragedies, the mere participation and expression of condolence for the victims and their families seem to me to be totally inadequate and inadequate. Parliament and those who bear the responsibility for the country's general policies cannot get away with it, even in the face of human error or technological failure, only with the mourning and perhaps with the request for severe investigations, that they can verify the responsibility of those who are in charge of these companies or the leadership of the means involved. I believe that we should reflect on one point: in a modern and advanced country like ours, in the face of a technology that allows us to put in place security systems that guarantee, if not 100%, 99% of what is necessary to give safe accessibility to the means of transport, in particular the railway ones, how is it possible that on routes it is also not of primary importance, but nevertheless important and that affect thousands of citizens every day, can events and events of this kind happen? I think we should reflect on the need to focus more attention on the characteristics of companies performing this function, which are local companies, on the fact that very often the professionalism put in place is inadequate or very improvised, and also on the workloads, which can probably also be high in situations at the limit, which often occur within these companies. Then there may also be the unexpected technology, but today the security systems can be double, you can get to particular refinements and you can make sure that the human error is reduced to the minimum terms. I want to express my condolences for this tragedy, which is added to other tragedies that we have had to witness in these days, but which were not dependent on us because they have happened in other parts of the world and have probably been the result of initiatives by people who are distracting and who no longer have anything human. With regard to tragedies like that which has happened today, the responsibility of all of us is great, so we must ensure that the future is no longer characterised by such events. The investigation will tell us who is responsible for it, but we need to reflect on the substance of the risk, which is not adequately covered by the technological systems put in the field, and this substance must be highlighted and not seen as a speculation of the moment, but as a need to resolve the problem for the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u26	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, we do not yet know everything about the scale of the disaster that took place this morning in the railway section between Andria and Corato. We know, however, that so many victims have so far been found (perhaps 20, perhaps more) and so many injured, who tell of a terrible and intolerable human tragedy. That is why we want to express at the moment the condolences of Parliament, the part of this Parliament that we represent, the pain and closeness to the families of the victims and the wounded. We would like to thank all those who work in the rescue and who have spoken very quickly, avoiding that the account of this disaster was even more tragic. But if it is true, as it seems, that that railway route has been affected in the last fifteen years by 120 accidents, and that there are 70 victims and many injured who have accompanied the existence of that railway segment, I think we must seriously address the problem and not settle the causes of this accident as a result of a possible human error. Evidently, the characteristics of that railway section are such that the service is insecure. The other reflection to do is on quality. Many students, many workers, many commuters; travellers who mainly use that stretch of rail (70 kilometres on a single track) tell, as has been said, of a condition of the railways, especially the regional railways, the local railways, the local public transport of the Mezzogiorno, which is now unbearable. Not only does that condition constitute a difficulty in the development of those lands and an additional discomfort for those populations, but it constitutes a significant risk element, which endangers the lives of those who work in that service and of those who use that service. In the next few hours, in the next few days, as soon as possible, we would like Mr Delrio to come to Parliament, in this House, to report in detail on the tragedy, its proportions, but also on its reasons: the immediate and the ancient ones. That is why, by proposing the most sincere closeness to the families of the victims and the wounded, we, Mr President, demand that the Government, as soon as possible, be present in the Senate. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u29	Mr Azzollini (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, of course, this is the time for the pain of the victims, the mourning of their families, the wish for all the wounded to be able to recover as soon as possible and the fraternal solidarity with all those who survived the very serious accident. I too would like to thank the many - state servants, voluntary organisations, doctors and health workers - who are working to contain, as far as possible, the already enormous damage caused by this accident. This is the feeling that prevails in those who, like me, know that line very well, because it crosses practically all the countries close to mine and knows perfectly how many young people and commuters every day frequent it, since it serves a fairly populous area. In fact, it does not cross small countries, but very large countries, and therefore it is a line that deserves much greater attention than the one that is being given to it. I know how slow the work went in the first section and at the stations on a second track and I know perfectly well that that part is still one track. In addition to expressing the pain, the hope for the restoration of the wounded, the mourning for the family and the solidarity for the survivors, we will now have to deal with this matter soon. The responsibilities must be determined quickly by the competent bodies and the follow-up measures must be taken as quickly as possible, but we, the politicians and the institutions, must immediately ensure that that and the other Italian railway lines are equipped with the technological services that can prevent the repetition of what has happened. That's how I say it, because I know that line: there are still dozens of steps at a virtually unattended level and everyone crosses that line. That line still has unique tracks and therefore needs all the necessary investments. I hope that the institutions will take the necessary measures for that and for other lines. The only way to honor all those who, unfortunately, have died or are injured at this time is to make sure that this does not happen again and this will be our task. I hope that, in this case, the institutions and political forces will cooperate intensively and that, above all, no bureaucratic harp will stand in the way of rapid progress. I hope that the bureaucratic torpor, which in Italy today is a devastating feature, with the passage of time does not make us forget what is necessary and urgent. For this reason I agree with the request that the Government report quickly on what has happened and that, in times that may not be immediate, but urgent, report on what it intends to prepare in concrete terms, together with the Region and other institutions, to remedy accidents such as today and to communicate what investments, especially in technology but also in infrastructure, will be prepared and with what times, in order to avoid what happened again. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u32	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, we naturally support the mourning. There are no words to express what happened this morning and to describe this tragedy. Of course, our first thought goes to the victims and to the families of the victims. We are talking about more than twenty dead and more than thirty wounded. It is at this moment that it is necessary to ask the Government, in particular, to ensure and carry out any activity to demonstrate closeness and comfort, even material, to families. A due thank you goes to the health care workers who are currently giving help to the wounded and the Apulian donors who are going to make blood donations for the emergency that has been created. In 2016 it happens that on a single track two trains at more than a hundred kilometers per hour receive: this cannot happen. Today mourning can no longer be enough. This is yet another tragedy, Mr President, which has struck the Mezzogiorno of Italy. Ours, my beloved Puglia, the protagonist of a shameful case of inefficiency and insecurity of the local public transport system. While in the North money is wasted for the TAV, the South is forced to live with railway networks entrusted to now outdated safety instruments, with unique tracks, where the traffic of trains is often regulated by staff and not always by technologically adequate automatic services. It would appear, in fact, that, on that very line, until recently, the alternation between trains coming from opposite directions was regulated through telephone communications: a scandal. Today we are here to mourn the unjust death of our citizens who have trusted the State. We must reflect on the real priorities of our Italy, particularly the Mezzogiorno: it is not possible for our young people, commuters and workers to live in such insecure and inefficient places. Before we undo our mountains for superfluous works, let us think about guaranteeing the essential services for our citizens: it is our duty, it is the duty of a political class to people who do not deserve to lose their lives because of the inefficiency of the State and the Regions. It is time to end this shame: Italy and the Italians deserve more. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u35	BOCCARDI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have heard this morning about the tragic incident on the Corato-Andria route of the North Bari Railways. I, too, would like to express in this House my feelings of closeness and solidarity with the families of the victims of this immense tragedy, which as a Puglia affects me very closely. We know that rescuers are operating under difficult conditions and we urge them to do everything possible to save the wounded. Twenty is the current number of victims, but from certain news that I get the number unfortunately is set to rise. The images of the confrontation we have seen are devastating and leave us speechless. I know the sensitivity of Minister Delrio and I am sure, therefore, that he will work with the utmost speed and the maximum commitment to ascertain the facts to the full and to increase the safety of the railway transport in my Region, because what has happened leaves really dismayed. One question I ask myself: two trains on the same track running against each other. How was that possible? And bureaucracy for years has stopped the electrification and remote control of that trait. That's not possible. Today is the moment of silence and prayer, solidarity and closeness to the wounded and the family, who cannot be left alone. I have heard colleagues who have spoken before me, senators from other parties, but today we must all be on the same side, on the side of those who have taken a train - which, I assure you, I also take - to go to work, to study or maybe on vacation and unfortunately has found death. I thank you for wanting to begin today's sitting precisely with the railway disaster that took place in Puglia and I urge you, President, and all my colleagues to ensure that this commemoration is not an end in itself, because the closeness of the institutions to the citizens cannot be exhausted by words alone. The Apulian families that have lost their loved ones today need concrete and effective support. I repeat: we cannot leave them alone, because too many times the noise of the tragedy has followed the silence of abandonment. The cameras are off, unfortunately everything has been forgotten. If politics makes sense, it is precisely to be close to people in difficulty. We need to understand what happened so that such incidents no longer occur, but we will do this tomorrow. Today we mourn the innocent victims, to whose families I renew my closeness and that of the whole Group of Forza Italia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u38	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with deep sorrow that I wish to express on behalf of all the Senators of the Democratic Party the most heartfelt condolences for the victims of the immense tragedy that has lasted for the past hours in Puglia between the cities of Andria and Corato, where - as many colleagues have mentioned - following the frontal clash between two trains of the Northern Railways of Bari, more than 20 people have lost their lives at the moment and many are the injured, including some serious ones. In these moments our first sad thought goes to them, to the victims, to their families and to the wounded, in what still appears a tragically provisional budget and that sees the extraordinary and generous commitment of the rescuers (from the firemen to the Civil Protection to the many volunteers, to the sanitary workers) who tirelessly work for hours to extract the passengers still stuck in the plates of the convoys destroyed by such a violent impact, and we have before us the image of that child saved from this so tragic accident. The accident occurred on a railway section on which hundreds of commuters, university students, students travel every day, as well as many families who go, for reasons of work, health, spending or to reunite with their families, to the Apulian capital. This is a very serious incident whose causes at the moment seem to be still largely inexplicable: the most accredited refers to a human error, but probably there is another. In these hours the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure, Graziano Delrio, has gone to the place to coordinate the relief and start the necessary investigation activities, which I believe the technicians of the various authorities will have to put in place as soon as possible to give the whole country (to all Italy and not only to our Apulia wounded in these hours from this immense tragedy) the answers that the many questions raised in these hours deserve urgently and that, we are sure, as soon as possible, the Government will come to report in these parliamentary classrooms. Our wish and our pressing invitation to the Government and the institutions involved is that clarity be made as soon as possible and that all the responsibilities of the case be established. In this sense, we are encouraged by the persistence with which the President-in-Office of the Council, before going to the place of such a serious incident, has undertaken to encourage the establishment of responsibilities. The time will come to question us about the adequacy of the Italian railway network in some parts of our peninsula and how it is possible that even today, with all the available technologies, this type of tragedy can happen, and no doubt it will be escaped in the face of what has happened. The time will come for all together to take as a priority the objective of the qualification, the strengthening and the modernization of the networks and the lines that daily millions of Italians use as commuters, like the extraordinary effort that the country has made in recent decades around the High Speed. This time will come. Meanwhile, in these minutes, in these hours, it is time for all of us to gather our strength in a feeling of sorrow and mourning for the victims, of solidarity with their families, of apprehension and closeness to the many wounded. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Alicata and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u41	Matteoli (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as soon as I was informed of the incident, I immediately told the Commission that we would try to acclaim what had happened, of course also so that we could discuss it with our colleagues in the Commission. Of course, I also express deep condolences towards the families who have been so severely affected. We are not used to our culture, when such a huge tragedy takes place, to immediately identify who is guilty, but we are more inclined to think about how to assist and try to find a solution that can save as many human lives as possible. Of course - as other Members have already said - it is an incredible fact that with the new technologies we cannot identify two trains that go on the same line against each other. But that's what we're gonna acclaim in the next few days. I very much appreciated the fact that Minister Delrio immediately went to the place, because this is what a government must do and I want to acknowledge this. Certainly, given your sensitivity, you will be reporting to Parliament and I hope you will also report to the Commission, because we should try to find some solutions. We have a railway line that reaches to Salerno that is among the first in the world - perhaps even the first in the world - and then for some regions we still have railway lines for which to say that they are of series B certainly does not correspond to the truth. They are private railway lines, as in this case, but they are connected to the network that RFI manages throughout the national territory. A few more controls must certainly be arranged, all of them together, and it is not necessary for a political part to do so; I believe that in the face of these events we must all do so together, because there is no political colour when such an accident occurs. In addition to the condolences that my colleague from the Forza Italia Group has expressed - and I thank him - I have asked for the floor because I have the honour of chairing the Committee on Infrastructure and Transport and I could not help but ask to speak after a matter like this. In the next few days we will know more and I hope that Parliament will find a way of trying to prevent such serious events from happening in the future. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u42	He asked the State Secretary to speak to the Presidency of the Pizzetti Council of Ministers. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u43	Mr President, I very much appreciated and shared the words of the President of the Commission, Mr Matteoli. I also agree with your statements, President, and on behalf of the President of the Council and the Government, I express great condolences for the victims, solidarity with families and closeness to the many injured. The accident is due to characteristics and proportions of considerable impact. The causes are being investigated, as colleagues have said; I think that every conclusion now, in the state of the art, is absolutely inappropriate. The technicians of the Ministry and the railway society are already on site to understand the dynamics and, as has been said just now, Minister Delrio is on site to personally ascertain the situation (the President of the Council will come later). It is absolutely necessary, first and foremost, to ascertain the causes of this. I also welcome the request from several quarters that the Government should report to the House on the facts, which is most likely to happen on tomorrow's day, with agreement with the presidency of the Senate. In conclusion, I would particularly like to thank the rescuers who are working these hours, the fire department, the law enforcement agencies, health workers, volunteers, civil protection and blood donors who are, as always, the best expression of Italy. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, we will define the timing and modalities of the government's intervention as soon as there are useful elements to resume this painful but necessary debate. The Conference of the Leaders has approved - except for this affair that we will certainly face - changes and additions to the current calendar and the new schedule of the intense activities until 5 August. Today's sitting will begin the discussion of the draft law on the modification of the budgets of the regions and local authorities. For this measure the final vote is provided by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate. Explanations of vote will take place tomorrow at 4.30 p.m. Therefore, the Presidency has been allowed to harmonise the timetable. At the request of two parliamentary groups, tomorrow's single sitting will be suspended at 12 noon and will resume at 3 p.m. without closing hours, in order to allow the secret balloting of the resignations submitted by Senator Vacciano and the examination of the draft law at fourth reading on international missions. Thursday will continue the examination of the bill on the crime of torture and then follow the arguments already foreseen in the current calendar, anticipating the bill on publishing compared to the measure on competition. At Thursday afternoon's Question Time sitting, the Minister of Justice will answer questions about the organisation of judicial offices and the situation of administrative staff, as well as the conditions of prisons. The calendar can be supplemented with the resolution of the Assembly for the constitution in court of the Senate in a conflict of powers, as well as with the examination of the accounts and the internal budget of the Senate. Without prejudice to the other topics already foreseen, the schedule of the week from 26 to 28 July is supplemented by an examination of the bill for the reform of the criminal trial, as well as two decree-laws submitted to the Chamber of Deputies in the field of finance of local authorities and telematic administrative process. The week from 2 to 5 August provides for the possible follow-up of the decrees-laws and other arguments not concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u45	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted, pursuant to Article 53 of the Regulation, the following programme for the months of July, August and September 2016: - Drawing of law n. 2344 - Amendments to the law n. 24 December 2012, n. 243, in the matter of balance of the budgets of the regions and local authorities (final vote by absolute majority of the members of the Senate) - Drawing of law n. 1917-B - Provisions concerning the participation of Italy in the international missions (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies, modified by the Senate and again amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2345 - Delegation to the Government for the transposition of European directives and the implementation of other acts of the European Union - Law of European delegation 2015 (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - The presence of the law n. 2067 and related - Amendments to the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure for the strengthening of defensive guarantees and the reasonable duration of trials as well as to the penitentiary order for the re-educational effectiveness of the sentence (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No 1881 and related - Establishment of a Parliamentary Committee for the investigation of public procurement and the phenomena of corruption and collusion related to them - Document XXII, No 5 - Establishment of a Parliamentary Committee for the investigation of issues related to the reconstruction of the territories affected by the seismic events of 6 April 2009 - Drawing of Law No 2092 and related - Amendments to Law No 91 of 5 February 1992, and other provisions on citizenship (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No 951 and related - Detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from the Veneto region and related to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region - Drawings of law for the conversion of decrees-laws - Ratifications of international agreements - Documents defined by the junta of parliamentary elections and immunities - Moments - Questions - Interpezia Giulia
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u46	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work from 12 July to 5 August 2016: [[Tuesday, July 12 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2344 - Changes in the balance sheets Regions and local authorities (final vote by absolute majority of the members of the Senate) - Voting on the resignation submitted by Senator Vacciano (Vote by secret ballot by electronic procedure) - Drawing of law n. 1917-B - Framework law on international missions (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies, modified by the Senate and again amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Follow-up to the bill n. 10-362-388-395-849-874-B - Crime of torture (Approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) - Documents defined by the Board of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys - Drawing of law n. 2345 - Law of European Delegation (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) Wednesday 13 " d. h. 9,30 Thursday 14 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 14 July pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister of Justice on: - organisation of judicial offices and the situation of administrative staff; - prison conditions]] Amendments to draft law No 1917-B (Fundamental Law on International Missions) should be tabled no later than 10 a.m. on Wednesday 13 July. The calendar may be supplemented by a resolution on the constitution in court of the Senate in a conflict of powers. [[Tuesday, July 19 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Eventually followed unconcluded arguments - Drawing of law n. 2271 and related - Publishing (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2085 - Annual Market and Competition Law (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2451 and related - Provisions concerning the content of the budget law (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2290 and connected - Food waste (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2287 and related - Discipline of the cinema, the audiovisual and the show (Collegato to the maneuvering of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2233 and related - Disegno. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 21 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 21 July pom. H. 16 Questions and questions]] The time limits for tabling amendments to Bill No. 2271 and related (Editorial), No. 2085 (annual market law and competition), No. 2451 and related (Provisions concerning the content of the Budget Act), No. 2290 and related (Food Laws), No. 2287 and related (Cinema, Audiovisual and Entertainment Discipline), No. 2233 and connected (Autonomous Work) and No. 2217 and linked (Contrast to the "Caporalate") will be fixed in relation to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, July 26 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n..... - Decree-Law n. 98, cession ILVA (Ove transmitted in good time from the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 8 August) - Drawing of law n. 2067 and related - Changes to the penal code, to the code of criminal procedure and to the penitentiary order (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n....... - Decree-Law n. 113, financial measures territorial authorities (Ove transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 23 August) - Drawing of law n....... - Decree-Law n. 117, administrative telematic process (Ove transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 29 August) - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n. 1881 and connected - Institution Commission of inquiry on public procurement - Doc. XXII, n. 5 - Institution Commission of inquiry into seismic events in Abruzzo - Drawing of law n. 2092 and related - Provisions on citizenship (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 27 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 28 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 28 July pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law No...... (Decree-Law No. 98, ILVA cession), No...... (Decree-Law No. 113, financial measures for territorial authorities) and No..... (Law No 117, electronic administrative process) will be established in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. Amendments to draft law No 1881 and related (Institute for the Commission of Inquiry into Public Procurement) and to Doc. XXII, No 5 (Institute Commission of Inquiry into Seismic Events in Abruzzo) must be submitted by 1 p.m. on Thursday 21 July. The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 2092 and related (Citizenship provisions) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday, August 2nd pom. h. 16,30-20 - Eventually followed unfinished decrees-laws - Eventually followed unfinished arguments Wednesday 3 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 4 " ant. h. 9,30 Friday 5 " ant. h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] The schedule of proceedings may be supplemented by an examination of the Senate's accounts and internal balance sheets. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2345 (Law of European Delegation) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 23' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2085 (annual market law and competition) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 44' AP (NCD-UDC) 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 34' AL-A 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']] Breakdown of times for discussion of draft laws No 2287 and related (Cinema, audiovisual and entertainment) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 44' AP (NCD-UDC) 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 34' AL-A 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2233 and related (Autonomous work) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 44' AP (NCD-UDC) 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 34' AL-A 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 98, ILVA transfer) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 23' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 113, financial measures for local and regional authorities) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 23' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 117, electronic administrative process) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 23' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u49	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we absolutely do not agree, as we have already pointed out at the meeting of the Leaders, with regard to the reversal that has taken place, and it was voted by a majority by the Leaders, in today's calendar of the House. In fact, we believe at this point absolutely unbearable that for the umpteenth time the draft law on torture which, I would like to remind you, has been buried in the Commission justice for a long time, has been postponed, if necessary, to the resumption of Thursday's work. Now, in view of the timetable that you have read, we have to anticipate today the debate on the draft law on the modification of the budgets of the regions and local authorities, and frankly it has not seemed to us so much as to approve this draft law, which is planned for tomorrow anyway, but, once again, an attempt - we regret to say so - to have the adoption of the bill on the torture crime shipwrecked. I would like to remind everyone that we are in a frightening delay. I believe that other group leaders have also received the letter from Amnesty International, which once again urges the Senate to proceed and to do so correctly. Let me say, Mr President-in-Office, that with the move to Thursday, unfortunately - alas - we are in danger of not concluding and approving, of course, with the necessary amendments, the draft law on torture. I therefore call for the restoration of the previous timetable according to which the draft law on the murder of torture should be dealt with today and, secondly, for the week from 25 July onwards to be included in the timetable for the discussion of document XXII No 33 for the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the case of the Regeni.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u52	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I confirm what has already been said at the Conference of Leaders. We have contested the request to reverse the timetable for two fundamental reasons. First of all, we want to point out that the delay requested on the discussion and vote on the draft law on the introduction of the torture crime into our system is simply dictated by a problem that has a majority political debate on this issue. We therefore ask that we continue, from now on, with the timetable that had already been adopted and then continue with the debate on the torture crime. We have also contested this reversal for another reason, namely that the qualified majority required for the next measure, in fact, can only guarantee it on Wednesday and so we would like to propose that we hang outside the Chamber a working time where we say that the Senate is only open on Wednesday, because it is the only day you are able to maintain and guarantee a qualified majority. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A majority qualified mainly by your elements and not disqualified by others who come to the rescue. This is a hard criticism I make of you. You are only able to maintain a qualified majority on Wednesdays and you do not dare to assume your responsibilities by rejecting what you may think is a disqualified majority. Given that the timetable for the next few weeks, until the summer recess, does not provide for the examination of motions, I would ask that the debate on motion No 374 on school construction and motion No 463 on asbestos be scheduled. I repeat: I am in favour of this proposal precisely because there is no provision for the examination of motions in the coming weeks. Finally, I would ask once again - and we will repeat this until the end of this parliamentary term and, if necessary, in the next one, we will do so - that the draft laws on citizenship income and class action be brought to the attention of the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u55	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, since the reading of the new timetable we have understood that a number of deadlines are before us. The final vote on the international missions scheduled for tomorrow's sitting, probably between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m., was introduced almost en passant. It doesn't have to be me who remembers... president. Divine Senator, it has been said that tomorrow's session has no closing hours. Therefore, the voting time will depend on the progress of the work. DIVINE (LN-Aut). That's right. At 8 p.m. this evening the deadline for tabling amendments expires and we do not know how many amendments will be tabled at the moment. I would remind you that we have focused on ineciencies and not on issues of substance, such as donations and other things, which perhaps had little to do with missions in the strict sense. The proposal I intend to make is as follows: since 15 July is due to expire and, since there is no room for examination, the decree-law is bound to lapse...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u56	Excuse me, Senator Divina, but perhaps you are confusing because it is the bill on international missions, which is being examined in the fourth reading. As you will recall (we are both part of the Defence Commission), the measure has already been examined several times in the Commission and there is no deadline. It would be good if his examination were completed, as was requested at the Conference of the Leaders, in particular by an opposition group. DIVINE (LN-Aut). In my opinion it is a decree-law that is about to expire and the deadline is even scheduled for July 15 or 16 next. You do the proper checks. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Divine Senator, I've already checked. The decree-law has its own specific path, but what we're talking about here is a bill. Trust the presidency. He then put forward the proposals he felt.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u59	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I wish to make a very short proposal. The new timetable provides that tomorrow's sitting will not have closing hours and that the final vote will take place around 6 p.m. My proposal is to provide for today's sitting to be without closing hours and for the vote on the draft law on the budget of the municipalities to take place this evening, no matter what time it is.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u62	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we know that the majority has also tabled a bill on the caregiver, on which we have repeatedly called for the attention of this House. At this point, I believe that there is no longer even the obstacle of the fact that there was only one draft law of the opposition, because - I repeat - one was also presented by the majority. I therefore ask that the draft law be examined immediately at the first signature of Senator Bignami and the other caregiver measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u63	If there are no other proposals, I shall put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senators De Petris and Lucidi, aimed at restoring the agenda for today's sitting, which provided for the examination of the bill on the murder of torture. It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u66	Viceconte (AP) (NCD-UDC). Mr President, I should like to point out that I was unable to take part in the counter-test vote for a malfunction of the voting mechanism.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u67	We take note of that. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Calderoli, to proceed with today's sitting without closing hours, in order to arrive at the final vote, whatever the time, of the draft law on the balance of the budgets of the regions and local authorities. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposed amendment, tabled by Senator De Petris, aimed at including in the calendar of the proceedings of the Assembly the discussion of document XXII n. 33 for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on the death of Giulio Regeni. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposed modification, made by Senators De Petris, Lucidi and Candiani, for the inclusion in the calendar of the proceedings of the Assembly of the handling of other documents and draft laws not provided for in it. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for the work which I have communicated to the House remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u68	I communicate to the Assembly that, with three separate letters, Senator Luis Alberto Orellana has asked to promote, pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 352 of 25 May 1970, the following requests for referendums, referred to in the second paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution: 1) "Do you adopt the text, divided by separate and homogeneous parts, of the constitutional law concerning "Provisions for the overcoming of bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the containment of the operating costs of the institutions, the abolition of the CNELs and the revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution," approved by the Senate of the Republic, in second resolution at the sitting of 20 January 2016 and by the Chamber of Deputies, in second resolution at the sitting of 12 April 2016, the text of which was published in the Official Journal of the Italian Republic - General Series No 88 of 15 April 2016? 2) "Do you approve the text of the Constitutional Law concerning "Provisions for the overcoming of equal bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the reduction of the costs of operation of the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution," approved by the Senate of the Republic, in the second resolution at the sitting of 20 January 2016 and by the Chamber of Deputies, in the second resolution at the sitting of 12 April 2016, the text of which was published in the Official Journal of the Italian Republic - General Series No 88 of 15 April 2016, in the part where, in Article 15, amends Article 75 of the Constitution relating to the repealing referendum? 3) "Approve you the text of the constitutional law concerning "Provisions for the overcoming of the bicameralism paritarian, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the containment of the operating costs of the institutions, the abolition of the CNELs and the revision of the Title V of Part II of the Constitution," approved by the Senate of the Republic, in the second resolution at the sitting of 20 January 2016 and by the Chamber of Deputies, in the second resolution at the sitting of 12 April 2016, whose text was published in the Official Journal of the Italian Republic - general series No 88 of 15 April 2016, in the part in which, in Article 2, 4, 5, 7, 21 paragraph 1, letter a), 22, 23, 24, 38 paragraph 1, 38 paragraph 3, 38 paragraph 7 letter a), 38 paragraph 11, 39 paragraphs 1 to 6, amends Article 57 of the Constitution, relating to the composition and election of the Senate, and the related provisions? In all three letters, Senators Lorenzo Battista, Serenella Fucksia and Luis Alberto Orellana are indicated, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 6 of Law 352 of 1970, as delegates to lodge requests for referendums at the Registry of the Court of Cassation. The quorum for the submission of requests for referendums is 65 signatures. Requests must be received at the Registry of the Court of Cassation by 15 April 2016. For the purposes of the obligations provided for in the first paragraph of Article 6 of Law No 352 of 25 May 1970, senators who wish to sign the above-mentioned requests for referendums may go to the Senate Assembly Service from 6 p.m. today until 8.30 p.m. From tomorrow, requests can be signed from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m. The officials delegated by the Secretary General will authenticate the signatures of the honorable senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u71	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to point out that, when you read the possibility of signing the referendum, you indicated the date of expiry, by material error, on 15 April. In fact, the date is July 15th, that is next Friday. Another consideration I wanted to make is the following. Tomorrow the senators will be given the opportunity to sign, from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m. Given that the House does not have closing hours, I would ask for the possibility of signing as long as the sitting is taking place in this House. Otherwise, the possibility of doing so would be restricted. Finally, it does not seem very clear where you can sign. In previous cases it has signed in Pannini room, but in this case there is a vague indication of the offices of the Assembly Service, which I do not think is a very clear indication for colleagues who will want, starting from 6 p.m. today, to start signing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u72	Senator Orellana, being these obligations of constitutional importance, I followed the reading of the text, because we are not talking about banality. I think the dates have been correctly indicated. Perhaps the mention of 15 April took place because that was one of the deadlines mentioned, even if not that of the end of the submission of requests, which we stress, for the use of this House. We have made it clear that the requests must be sent to the Registry of the Court of Cassation by 15 July. Probably, there is confusion with the fact that 15 April was the day of publication in the Official Journal of some of these acts. The date of 15 April was therefore mentioned, but in other parts of my speech. 15 July is obviously the expiry date of the requests, also because today is 12 July and it is clear that we are on the way. In any case, we have specified this in case someone wants to make decisions. As for the place where the signatures are affixed, these are the offices of the Senate Assembly Service, which the senators concerned can easily reach. As regards the request to keep the offices open tomorrow, on which the sitting does not have closing hours, we shall submit it to the offices and inform the House. I think it is reasonable to imagine that, if the House comes to an end later, because the officials and officers here are, as we know, creating this parallel between the time for the signature and the closing time of the House, which we do not know because it will depend on the speeches and other issues. The expiry date is therefore 15 July. That is what we have already said, and that is what we have said further.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u75	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I must have missed it or perhaps I did not quite understand it, but is the deadline for tabling amendments to the framework law on international missions at 8 p.m. today? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, it's at 8:00 today. MARTON (M5S). Forgive me, but has it not even been scheduled in the Commission and we already set a deadline for tabling amendments? That sounds crazy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u76	He goes to the Chamber tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u77	MARTON (M5S). All the more reason. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll assess your observation. MARTON (M5S). She goes to the House tomorrow and has not even been scheduled in the Commission. You have to explain to me the mechanism that leads us to a vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u78	Senator Marton, your observation has a foundation, in the sense that the Conference of Leaders, which took place earlier, has decided to make this inclusion. The timetable has just been discussed and voted and the Defence Commission has been informed. Your comment, which I do not find unfounded in relation to the progress of the work, must, in my view, be considered. A reasonable scan of the facts, in fact, cannot affect the progress of the work that, for the House, will probably include this debate in the advanced afternoon. Since the draft law is at the fourth reading and, as you know very well, it has been adopted in a manner consistent with the 95% Chamber and Senate, the Presidency can probably reserve a few minutes' reflection on an observation which, I repeat, I find reasonable and which can also allow respect for the timetable. For the Foreign Commissions and Defense gathered there is a call tomorrow at noon, which had not been included in the weekly schedule of the Commissions and was inserted later. In a few minutes, therefore, we will be able to give a more complete communication, precisely because your comment does not seem unfounded, even in the light of the summons of the Defence Commission - together with the Foreign Commission - at 12 o'clock, which had not yet been the subject of communication to the individual members of the Commission. As part of the Commission myself, I, like you, receive communications through a message on my mobile phone. However, by participating in the Conference of Leaders, I was able to receive some more news, but I think it is right that the procedure should be transparent for this House. I believe that this can be achieved both in order to go to the Chamber tomorrow and in order to allow a few more moments of reflection.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u81	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to make one point. With regard to the International Missions Act, the terms are not so transparent and normal. I should like to explain, first of all, the deadline for tabling amendments to the Commission and then the deadline for the House. It wasn't like that. I understand at this very moment that the deadline for this House has been moved, perhaps from 20 to tomorrow morning, but that the deadline has not yet been set in the Commission. At this point, I say, to be precise and precise, that this is not an acceptable modus operandi, because some changes that may occur in the Commission may not be recorded for what is happening in this House. So, in this passage, I think there are some minor flaws for which I ask the President of the Commission to take charge of this, because this is not the first time that we have accepted abnormal passages like this. I therefore ask the President of the Senate to put in writing that there is not even material time to set deadlines, as it would be right. In fact, the deadline for tabling amendments to the Commission should be set first and then the deadline for tabling amendments to the House and not vice versa.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u82	Senator Santangelo, presiding over the work of this House, I cannot follow the flow of news, but I have seen that, as a member of the Commission, I have received a message updating the Commission's convocations, which will have come to you as well, as part of it. That is why a call from the Commission was made tomorrow at 12.00 a.m., which we did not know earlier. We shall then have to make timetables coincide so that, instead of the end of this evening at 8 p.m., we can allow for an amendment in the Commission and then in the House. As I said earlier, your point seemed sensible to me. We will therefore give a new deadline, considering that the Commission was convened tomorrow at 12 noon. I repeat, however, that the convocation has just been arranged, because the Conference of the Leaders ended a short while ago and the timetable has just been confirmed: therefore the Commission could not precede these acts. I therefore think it is reasonable to make the timing coincide and we will be even more precise shortly when we communicate a different term, obviously on tomorrow's day; otherwise the deadline for the Commission would not be there and that for the House would be earlier. The logic comes even before the regulations, on the contrary, the regulations are based on logic.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u83	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2344. I note that, pursuant to Article 81, sixth paragraph, of the Constitution, the bill is approved if in the final vote it obtains the favorable vote of the absolute majority of the members of the Senate. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u84	Mr President, Senators, Senators, the draft law "local bodies," as many are briefly called, provides for amendments to Law No 243 of 2012, implementing the principle of balance of the budget referred to in Article 81 of the Constitution. I remember, however, that this law was enacted in a very different historical, political and economic context from the present, even if it has been a few years. The application of Article 81 of the Constitution, which provides for the constraint of budgetary balance, must not, however, become an excessive bureaucratic administrative constraint and, above all, must not become an obstacle for local self-government, in their discretion and planning capacity, especially as regards investment. The important role of engine of development and investments throughout the national territory of the local authorities must not be mortified, especially in these years in which the maximum commitment must be directed to the growth and overcoming of the crisis. These are changes, so to speak, "systemic" changes. First of all, there is the final overcoming of the Stability Pact. These are structural changes, which I think are very important and which need to be more widely shared, because they will have to be applied and supported independently of the majority in government and in this direction I have played my role as rapporteur. The draft law provides for important innovations, much awaited by the local authorities. Among these, it aims to simplify the regulatory framework as a whole by bringing together the rules adopted in recent years; to simplify the specific provisions on the definition of levels of budgetary balance; to ensure and simplify the possibility for local authorities to plan and predict territorial public expenditure, and also to allow for an expansionary policy. It is also proposed to simplify, on the one hand, the modalities of the State's participation in the financing of essential levels and key functions in the adverse phases of the cycle or the occurrence of exceptional events and, on the other hand, the modalities of the territorial authorities' participation in the sustainability of public debt, always taking into account the recent judgment of the Constitutional Court. In a single word, the biggest message is: to simplify life for local authorities and, above all, to allow investment. With regard to the precise content of the four articles, I refer to the explanatory report printed in the Assembly's file, so as not to burden the evening. I would merely like to point out that Article 1 replaces the four reference balances of the budgets of the Regions and local authorities introduced by Law No 243 of 2012 with a single non-negative balance in terms of competence between final revenue and final expenditure, both in the forecast and in the reporting phase. This means greatly reducing the constraints. Article 2 provides for changes to the rules, mostly procedural, which allow territorial authorities to use debt to finance investment costs and to adopt depreciation plans of no longer than the useful life of the investment. Finally, Articles 3 and 4 simplify the provisions in force concerning the participation of local authorities in the financing of essential levels and key functions in the light of developments in the economic cycle or the occurrence of exceptional events, as well as in the context of their participation in the sustainability of public debt. They sound like complicated words, but they really mean simplifications for municipalities and territorial authorities. The importance of the innovations and simplifications contained in the draft law has been appreciated by both audit and majority and opposition groups. As always, however, any measure can be improved in Parliament. Following the hearings, which took place jointly between the Chamber and the Senate, a number of amendments were tabled, which also denotes the non-obstructionist will of the oppositions with regard to certain issues highlighted by the audit territorial authorities; amendments which have been tabled identical or similar by almost all parliamentary groups. The work in the Commission, with the support of the majority groups, the opposition groups and the government, has led to the drafting of two amendments by the rapporteur, who have been unanimously adopted, and I would like to stress this; In fact, when it comes to territorial authorities, sensitivity is cross-cutting and the search for the best solutions always finds us willing to reach an agreement. Unfortunately, some instances (e.g. those on the use of the surplus), although strongly shared by the undersigned, could not be accepted because they required financial cover impossible to find in the current state or because inadmissible on the subject. But I am confident that they will be able to be accepted, in whole or in part, in the next steps. The amendments adopted unanimously concern a transitional phase for the years 2017-2019, during which the multi-annual fund bound in the years 2017-2019 will be introduced between revenue and final expenditure in accordance with the next three-year budget law. The transitional phase is indispensable as the tied multiannual funds of the territorial authorities are full as a result of the extraordinary re-assessment of the residues and their application requires a gradual inclusion on the revenue side. At the end of the 2017-2019 three-year budget, there will be a phase in which the tied multi-annual fund is permanently introduced between the final revenue and final expenditure of the territorial authorities. This means a great deal for the local authorities: it means the possibility of making investments. Investments at local level have resumed this last year and this is a further breath of oxygen. There will then be an agreement between the ANCI and the Government also regarding the figures that can be included in the next budget, but will certainly help to increase investment. Another amendment adopted unanimously stems from the rewording of an amendment requested by the Commission, which provides that debt and investment operations, carried out by local authorities through the use of the administrative results of previous years and not satisfied by regional arrangements, are carried out on the basis of appropriate national solidarity pacts. The rule introduces a national level of remodulation of the public finance balances allocated to the territorial authorities, obviously without prejudice to the effects of this national instrument compared to the invariance of the final fund of the whole of the territorial authorities. This too, in a nutshell and simplification, means freeing up resources for local authorities and, in particular, for investment. Finally, a third amendment, proposed by the Commission in agreement with the Government, was unanimously adopted, which provides that the outline of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers concerning the criteria and technical implementation of the provisions referred to in Article 2 of the draft law must be forwarded to the Chambers, so that the relevant Commissions can express themselves on financial aspects. The amendments made by these three amendments will not be included in the texts to be voted on, because they are already contained in the dossier with the text that you have available. Starting with the conclusion, the measure under consideration is a draft system law that fits into the wider framework of structural innovations, such as the harmonisation of public budgets, and short-term economics, such as the law of stability 2016 and the decree-laws of local authorities (the one of last year and that at the moment under consideration by the Chamber), which are progressively outlining a path of normalization of the activity of territorial authorities. We are therefore gradually returning to a normal system, at least in the procedures: the knowledge of the rules for drawing up forecast budgets allows their approval in the correct times, i.e. by December or at the latest February, progressively coming back from the abnormal deadlines that we saw in the three years 2013-2015, in which we had even come to approve the budgets by November of the current year. Welcome, then, to a return to procedural normality. I should like to end by thanking you, which - I assure you - is not just a ritual this time. I thank the majority and opposition members of the Budget Commission for their willingness to discuss the substance and find shared solutions, and the Government for their willingness to change the initial text and for their contribution to the search for possible technical solutions. I thank the offices of the Commission, the Ministry, the legislative office of the Democratic Party, which must be recognized as the usual valuable and irreplaceable support for our work. Finally, I would like to appeal to all my colleagues: I would like to appeal to all the senators to assess the measure on the substance, the result of a work which has been attended by the whole Commission and which is strongly awaited by the recipients. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] 18.06 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u85	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Del Barba is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u86	Madam President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this bill contains a series of amendments to the provisions of Chapter IV of Law No 243 of 2012 (balance of the budgets of the Regions and local authorities and the same bodies contribute to the sustainability of public debt), dictated by the need to make consistent the discipline of the public finance constraints that territorial authorities must respect under the aforementioned law with the new framework of accounting rules provided for by Legislative Decree No 118 of 2011, as amended by Legislative Decree No 126 of 2014, which regulates the harmonisation of regional and local budgets. At other times, with such a title, the bill would have announced yet another stalemate for local authorities; a series of bureaucratic-accounting rules and mechanisms aimed at harnessing their capacities and programming possibilities, limiting their spending and, above all, in the last period, also remaining a surplus destined for the reduction of debts. Today the provision has a very opposite sign and color. This measure puts an end, if anything, to the long season during which local authorities, in agreement with central governments, had to contribute - and at a heavy price - to the consolidation of public finances through the mechanisms of the Internal Stability Pact. Local authorities that have often been sacrificed in this relationship with the central state and this has essentially caused the impossibility of planning on the territories and the drastic decrease, not to say the block, of investment expenditures: aspects that can be found, along the roads of our municipalities, in a poor maintenance especially of local infrastructures. Today this provision, which is accompanied by the last law of stability, puts an end in a definitive way - although with a transition, as Senator Zanoni explained, that will see the last technical consequences in the course of the next three years - to this state of affairs. It gives local administrators and budget advisors full planning capacity and frees up investment money. Therefore, it is good news for local governments and the economy, because we know that the recovery of public investment is crucial to the recovery of national GDP. To these measures largely of positive sign also is added, through the strengthening of regionalised pacts, the objective of favoring investments in the territory, both through the use of debt through the use of administrative surpluses, and strengthening the role of the Regions as direction cabin in the context of the territory of reference. We close an era and do so quietly, while for many years, in a much less subdued way, it has taken action against the Stability Pact and against the financial rules and indeed the damage has been detected. It would be nice for the media today to highlight this historic milestone, which until last year was unthinkable and not announced. However, we do not deceive ourselves, but at least we hope that Parliament will highlight the largely positive aspects of the manoeuvre. I would like to focus on something that I am also very concerned about as a former Budget Councillor in a municipality, showing special attention to this category of administrators. Let us put an end to the management of the cumbersome balances: the four reference balances of the budgets of regions and local authorities are replaced by a single balance, not negative, but only in terms of competence between the final revenue and final expenditure, both in the forecast and in the reporting phase. As a result, balance requirements for cash and current expenditure are abolished: this means simplification. But above all - this has a much more substantial value - by letter b) we have the introduction, with the law of the State and compatible with the objectives of public finance, of the bound multi-year fund: an important fund to which our administrators will gladly get used, because it means overcoming the previous limits of the Stability Pact. This fund, which covers revenue and expenditure, is a financial balance consisting of established resources intended for the financing of passive bonds (typically the public works of the institution already committed) but payable in years after the one in which the entry is established. The purpose of the fund, from the accounting point of view, is to ensure that the expenditure charged to the years following the current one is covered and to make clear the temporal distance between the acquisition of the funds and the actual use of those resources. In other words, the effect that everyone had learned about the mortgage but the expenses are incurred in the following years creating an imbalance is, from the accounting point of view, fully remedied by the fund. However, the resources of the multiannual fund are allocated mainly to capital expenditure, but also to cover current expenditure, for example for those committed against revenue arising from tied current transfers due in years prior to those in which the corresponding expenditure is due. The multi-annual fund shall be immediately usable, following the establishment of the revenue for which it is financed. Commitments may be made for expenditure due in the current financial year and for expenditure due in the following financial years. In other words, the bound multi-annual fund is an instrument for programming and forecasting territorial public expenditure, both current and investment, which shows with transparency and reliability the process of using the resources acquired by the institution that require an ultra-annual period of time for their actual use and use. In this way resources are released and you can go back to doing sound programming. Finally, I would point out that the use of the bound multi-annual fund has an impact on the determination of the overall balance between final revenue and final expenditure in terms of competence, determining, as anticipated, an expansionary policy for the territorial authorities that make use of it, with charges in terms of net indebtedness. In this decree we also modify the rule regarding the possible return in case a territorial entity records a negative value of the balance. The return was previously expected in three years without any kind of constraint. It seemed appropriate to us here to point out that in the next three years there should be constant quotas. Of course the reason is quite clear: we are faced with the traditional trade off between leaving complete freedom to the local administrations without giving any principle and, therefore, leaving to the responsibility of the individual directors also the punctual choices or introduce principles of common sense, aimed at avoiding imbalances between the annual, particularly early and annoying, when, in this period, there was a change of administration. In other words, in this case the choice is to impose equity within the three-year period rather than to see the discharge of the barrel on the future. Perhaps, in this case, the State shows common sense rather than a imposition of time limits. Madam President, I think it is right to stress that this measure marks the end of a period of great difficulty in the financial administration of local authorities, it restores the programming capacity and it also affects the possibility of recovery of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u87	Colleagues and colleagues, the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport will inform the Senate of the serious railway accident tomorrow, at 6.30 p.m., after the final vote on the bill on the budgets of local authorities. Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes each. The Presidency will assess the continuation of work in the light of the progress of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u88	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u89	Madam President, this measure amends the law on the budgetary balance of local and regional authorities. As the rapporteur has said, it is certainly an innovative measure which allows a significant simplification of public accounting. It makes the transition from the Stability Pact to budgetary balance more manageable and removes certain constraints that made spending and investment planning more rigid and complicated. Now, this is a technical adjustment measure, this is clear, but it has a high political value not only for the symbolic complement it represents to the conclusion of the existence of the Stability Pact which in recent years has bound the municipalities so much, even beyond the real constraints of their function, but also because it has given, in some way, the idea of an oppressive Europe because it was a budget step that we described in some way as related to the European will. It has a high political value also because, in spite of some criticisms, it shifts the themes and the operation of local finance towards a more evident function of coordination of the Regions. The objective of the measure is concretely concentrated in two facts: firstly, to allow territorial authorities, including the Regions, through the allocation of public finance elements consistent with the new accounting system, more effective management of resources, taking into account the specificities of each institution and respecting the budgetary balances. Moreover, through a strengthening of regionalised pacts, the bill seeks to achieve the objective of promoting the increase of investments in the territory, as other colleagues had already said, both through the use of debt and through the use of administrative surpluses and, in some way, also through the role of the Regions as direction cabins in the context of its own territory. In essence, the text ultimately simplifies the overall regulatory framework on the balance of the budgets of the regions and local authorities and also redefines how they contribute to the sustainability of public debt. The amendments contained in this draft law are based on a number of guidelines for action. I will focus mainly on the first, which concerns the balance of the budgets of the regions and local authorities. In this context, first of all, it is expected that the four reference balances provided for in Law No 243 of 2012 will be replaced by a single non-negative balance in terms of competence between final revenue and final expenditure, both in the forecast and in the statement phase. Thus, all cash-balance requirements and current expenditure are abolished. This greatly simplifies the lives of local authorities and simplifies it because it is complex, in passing, to think of having the four reference balances ready and, above all, much less scare the small local authorities that, until the other day, were not even subject to the constraints of the Stability Pact. The second major amendment, mentioned by the rapporteur and which I would like to stress in other respects, is certainly the introduction, by state law and compatible with public finance objectives, of the multi-annual income and expenditure-bound fund between final revenue and final expenditure. With the introduction of this fund we finally have an instrument of undoubted effectiveness and competitiveness that allows to revive the investments from the municipalities and the regions, eliminating definitively that distorted management that has been formed over time with the active and passive residues that finally allows the local authorities to have a programming tool. In the discussion of last year's stability law, the regions that had already started the budget balance in advance had been asked to think of a form of flexibility for the use of these resources in the three-year period. The government, however, had not found the resources to be able to do so, also because it was an element centered on the regions that experimentally, I speak of some Regions with special statutes, had begun to balance the budget. Today, finally, the issue of flexibility in the three-year period, important in the investment phase but also in the recovery of possible passive phases and negative balances, is finally introduced. Of course, this flexibility has the limit of being introduced for a three-year period, even in the experimental phase, and in the future, perhaps, it will have to be constantly covered by a state law. Perhaps we are a little behind the forecast budgets, but it must be said that at the moment, under the conditions given, this is certainly an important step forward for all the municipalities. The resources of the fund are mainly allocated to capital expenditure, but through the rule under consideration it is also possible to ensure that current expenditure is covered with certain constraints. The three-year fund has the advantage of being immediately usable as a result of the establishment of the revenue which finances it and it is possible to commit the expenditure due already in the current year and also in subsequent years. Therefore, with this fund we finally have an instrument for planning and forecasting territorial public expenditure, both current and investment, which shows with transparency and reliability the process of using the resources acquired by the institution that require an ultra-annual period of time for their actual use and use. Before concluding, I would like to mention some elements of greater flexibility concerning the flexible recovery not in constant shares of a negative value of the balance, the abolition of the allocation constraint of any positive balances to the extinction of a debt accrued by the institution to the financing in investment expenses and, finally, the change of the sanctioning system in a system that is now no longer sanctioned in the strict sense, but rewarding for the local authorities, established by law of the State that provides not only sanctions, but also the possibility of rewarding the virtuous local authorities that make available part of the flexibility margin. In the same way, it should be stressed that the intervention on the methods of recourse to debt by the regions and local authorities must be flexible, with changes to the way in which these operations are carried out, which in any case go in the direction of simplifying them. This is certainly due to the difficulties of the smaller municipalities which do not have human resources so that they can spend too much time on the complexity of operations which, through this work, are simplified. In particular - I mentioned it at the beginning and I stress it again - the instrument of the understanding in the regional within for the operations of indebtedness and of investment, realized through the use of the results of administration of previous years. These arrangements must ensure, for the reference year, respect for the non-negative balance of all the territorial authorities of the Region concerned, including the Region itself. In essence, the amendment also makes the use of the surplus of previous years for investment operations conditional on the acquisition of a regional arrangement and, in this sense, is also a further element of flexibility. These are all the positive elements. Of course, we could find some negative elements, which would all concern the need to deal with a public finance that until one or two years ago basically demanded sacrifices from local authorities and which, instead, today, opens the way to a new model, in some respects diversified and which also incorporates previous models, but which certainly, with these elements of flexibility, allows local authorities to plan their own spending, but above all to make investments that are certainly an essential contribution to the recovery of the economy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u90	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that we are preparing to adopt amends Law No 243 of 24 December 2012 on balance of the budgets of the regions and local authorities. I hope, for my experience as a local administrator even more than as a senator, that the amendment we are debating today will constitute an intervention that will put a firm point to the discipline of the budgets of local authorities which, in recent years, since the 2009 delegation, has been affected by stages of experimentation and continuous regulatory changes with a view to overcoming the Internal Stability Pact. Certainly, a general criticism of the draft law under consideration must be allowed to me. As the Court of Auditors itself has noted during the hearings in the Budget Committee, this draft law, rather than trying to adapt the contents of the accounting reform dictated by Legislative Decree No 118 of 2011 to the fundamental principles and criteria adopted by Law No 243 of 2012, in implementation of the principle of balance of the budget, pursuant to Article 81, sixth paragraph, of the Constitution, pursues the coordination between the two regulations, adapting to the opposite the constraints of public finance to the new accounting principles. But there is more. The idea of the self-sufficient and sovereign state is denied by the reality of the facts. The State, like any other debtor, must demonstrate that it is able to repay its debt, especially when investors are largely foreign. It is precisely the submission to a system of international relations, based on mutual acceptance of behaviour in international markets, that has led to the need to introduce mechanisms of structural constraints on public expenditure, so as to allow the sustainability and repayment of debt in the long term. For these reasons, the EU member states signed in 2011 an international treaty known to most as the fiscal compact, implemented in Italy under Constitutional Law No. 1 of 2012, followed by the aforementioned implementing law No. 243 of 2012, which we are about to amend today. Law 243 introduces - as it is known - in the Italian legislation, in a constitutionally "strengthened" way, obligations of balance of the budget deriving from the situation of serious instability of the public finance that the Country has faced since the end of 2011. The wordings adopted then, with particular reference to territorial authorities, have outlined an excessively restrictive, markedly centralistic scenario, even of the autonomy of income and expenditure enjoyed by the municipalities by virtue of the constitutional dictation, and unable to incorporate the novelties that would shortly have been introduced by the reform of public accounting. It is certainly appropriate to amend Law No 243 to date, precisely in order to overcome the limitations of the initial design and to ensure greater flexibility in the management capacity of contributions to consolidation and growth. At the same time, however, it must be stressed that continuous regulatory changes inevitably reduce the planning capacity of our municipalities, which on the contrary should be enabled to operate in a context of certain and stable rules over time. Please, let us reposition our attention to the local authorities after lustre of indifference. They are the soul of the nation, the front office of the State towards the citizens, and embody the entire Italian idea of the community. We should have the courage to ask ourselves, and I ask the government to do the same, whether the blame for the lack of planning is for the bureaucrats, who merely implement the provisions of the law, or rather of the legislator, that those rules continually change. I would like to stress another point here. Government slogans indicate precisely in the local authorities the source of public expenditure and waste. The planned and not yet implemented abolition of the Provinces would also be justified by this requirement. The reality is quite different. According to a study carried out in June this year by the Research and Studies Centre One enterprise, the debt of local authorities has decreased by 14%, while that of central government has risen by 5%. To get into detail, from April 2014 to March 2016 the debt of local government rose from 107 billion to 92 billion, with a general reduction that affected mainly the municipalities (which reduced their debt by as much as 3 billion) compared to the Provinces (for which the debt reduction was 643 million). On the other hand, the debt of the State rose, in the same period, from EUR 2,039 billion to EUR 2,136 billion. According to the firm's study, the costs of the state apparatus, which remain in permanent growth, would weigh on the state budget. I should like to remind this House that the Conservative and Reformist Group has tabled three amendments. We welcome the simplifying intention of the draft law in comment that replaces the constraints of competence and cash currently foreseen with a single balance of non-negative competence between the final revenues and the final expenses, we have proposed to insert, from the financial statements of 2017, in a structural way, the multi-annual fund bound among the aggregates relevant for the purposes of the new final balance of competence, especially in order to give continuity to the process of relaunching local investments laboriously started with the law of stability 2016. Secondly, we have proposed the introduction of an instrument allowing the redistribution of public finance constraints on a national scale, also providing for a mechanism of national solidarity that allows the full use of available resources and reduces the risk of seeing geographical and dimensional distances increased within local self-governments. This could give rise to a boost to local investment without additional burdens on public finance. We need to free up resources for investment, especially in public works, especially in the tribulated infrastructure sector, which, where implemented, will improve mobility and connections, avoiding - for example - that trains continue to travel on a single track, as happened this morning in my Puglia, causing the immense railway tragedy that has caused mourning to many families. It is often the black news, paradoxically, that comes to the rescue of the thesis that we have been supporting for a long time: we free resources to ensure security for citizens, users, people. [[Applause from the CoR Group and the Council Senator]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u92	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u93	Madam President, Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under consideration reform of Law No 243 of 2012, which is a reinforced law implementing Article 81 of the Constitution as revised by Constitutional Law No 1 of 2012. Law 243, made by the Monti Government at the end of 2012, had introduced the principle of balanced budget for Regions and local authorities and their support for the sustainability of public debt as of 2016. Law 243 also introduced the obligation of financial cover for any law introducing new expenses or additional charges into the system. I remember that, with the law of stability 2015, the Renzi Government had instead anticipated a year, that is to say to 2015, the obligation of balance of the budget for the Regions with ordinary statutes, as a new mode of containment of the public expenditure in place of the pact of stupidity, indeed of the Internal Stability Pact, centered on the observance of a limit placed on the final expenses. The measure under consideration is very technical and aims to ease the budgetary constraints of local and regional authorities by amending four articles (from 9 to 12) of Law 243, corresponding to Chapter IV. Article 1 amends Article 9 of Law No 243 of 2012, entitled: "Balance of the budgets of regions and local authorities'. This article replaces the four reference balances of the budgets of the regions and local authorities with a single non-negative balance in terms of competence between final revenue and final expenditure, both in the forecast and in the reporting phase. The balance of payments obligations for cash and current expenditure are therefore abolished. Article 2 of the measure amends Article 10 of Law No 243 of 2012 (Recourse to debt by regions and local authorities). With the new discipline it is expected that the debt operations will be carried out on the basis of special agreements concluded in the regional context that guarantee, for the reference year, the balance of the final cash management of the whole of the territorial authorities of the Region concerned, including the same Region. There will also be a regional agreement for the use of the surplus of previous years for investment operations. Article 3 amends Article 11 of Law No 243 of 2012 (State competition for the financing of essential levels and key functions in the adverse phases of the cycle or the occurrence of exceptional events). In amending paragraph 1, it is entrusted to the law of the State to contribute to the financing of the essential levels of benefits and fundamental functions inherent in civil and social rights by the State, due to the evolution of the economic cycle or to the occurrence of exceptional events. Finally, there is Article 4, which amends Article 12 of Law No 243 (Competition of regions and local authorities to the sustainability of public debt). It is, therefore, a measure with positive rules, which introduces - as mentioned earlier by the rapporteur, Mrs Zanoni - system changes, but which could make more positive contributions, as pointed out by the Parliamentary Bureau and the Court of Auditors, audits by the Commissions. Too many references and the fact that they are passed on to the law of the state risk, in fact, to compromise the ability to programming of the institutions regarding the expenditure on investments, that instead should be encouraged [[Applause from Senator Candiani),]] as many newspapers have pointed out these days, given the many bellyaches within the shaky majority. Law No 243 can be amended, waived or repealed only by a bill such as the one under consideration, for which the absolute majority of the members of each Chamber is required; threshold of 161 senators, which here in the Senate brings more than one fibrillation. I do not know whether the measure will bring back from the agony in which regions, provinces and municipalities have fallen, which for too long have been struggling with a very difficult and dramatic financial and organizational situation. Especially since the end of 2011, thanks to the choices made by the governments of the appointed Monti, Letta and Renzi with successive laws of stability, various measures linked to the emergency and with electoral operations of typical Renzi style, that irresponsibly have splashed the public debt, the territorial authorities have suffered devastating institutional attacks, as well as heavy and irresponsible operations to cover maneuvers of public finance made by linear cuts. This is, therefore, a measure that seeks to repair the damage created by the Europe of bureaucrats, concentrated on imposing only stupid austerity with the parameters of Maastricht and the fiscal compact, to which - I remember - only the North League voted against; parameters that the local governments have undergone, endorsing and imposing them on the system of local autonomy. And we come to the Regions, which overall were in balance of budget, and which in a few years were imposed a reduction in their primary expenditure by almost 40%, compared with 13% of the reduction in primary expenditure of the central government of the state. And all these Regions, with the exception of Lombardy, had to resort to the increase of the regional addition IRPEF. Then we spread a pitiful veil on the Provinces following the demential Delrio reform. Pending the outcome of the referendum on constitutional reform, which Renzi and Boschi will lose due to the arrogance and failure of government action, there is a total failure on simplification, since different models are being created in each Region (see Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Sicily, Lombardy). There is a marasm on the reordering of functions and on the staff and, above all, a real emergency on the side of resources. Only cuts in transfers to the Provinces rose from 300 million euros in 2011, the last year of the Berlusconi Government, to 3.7 billion euros in 2015. They have only crumbs with which they have to cope with the salaries of the staff and, above all, the maintenance of thousands of kilometers of provincial roads and hundreds of high schools, for which there are also management charges. So let's imagine how they will be able to deal with emergencies related to hydrogeological failure! In short, chaos reigns for the provinces that go into disarray, because the link between fundamental functions, transferred functions, resources and guarantees of financial coverage has completely disappeared. Let us now come to the cries of sorrow of the Municipalities. In these years of fiscal consolidation the municipalities have played the lion's part. Among the objectives of the Stability Pact, the cuts in transfers and the municipal solidarity fund, the municipalities contributed EUR 17 billion, of which only EUR 12.3 billion over the last five years. Only savings in transfers rose from 1.5 billion euros in 2011 - the last year of the Berlusconi Government: I stress - to 8.3 billion euros in 2015, then confirmed in 2016. The increase in local taxation was inevitable, with the mayors called upon to make the tax collectors on behalf of the State. On the taxation of buildings I remember the increase from 9.2 billion euros of ICI revenues of 2011 to 25 billion euros between IMU and TASI of 2014, then confirmed in 2015, of which 4 billion euros of revenues on industrial properties, that - I remember - went and go directly to the greedy coffers of the central state. Dear Premier Renzi, this year's elimination of the TASI, introduced and applied by you and the Democratic Party, reports the revenue on real estate to 21.5 billion euros, but the value is still too high. We are now at the paradox that several municipalities (many of them in Lombardy) no longer receive transfers from the State and there is a sort of decentralized finance on the contrary, so the local taxes collected by the mayor are then transferred to the State. I shall start with the conclusions: with regard to this serious situation affecting local and regional authorities, it is also necessary to stress the consequence of the drastic drop in investment, with a cut of more than 40%, both for the municipalities and the provinces. This is an irresponsible renunciation of some point of GDP and, therefore, a renunciation of many jobs for our companies, increasingly crushed by the economic crisis and which continue to die, creating new unemployed, also - and I would like to remind you - for excess credit boasted against the public administration, which is anything but zeroed, as Renzi had promised for 15 September 2014. The serious thing is that in recent years we have proceeded only and only with the usual linear cuts and has turned out almost nothing the praised fight against the waste, of which for a long time it has been babbling Renzi, while ineffective commissioners happened to the spending review: Cooking them first, Perotti then and now the economic councilman Gutgeld. We really hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this measure will simplify the lives of local authorities and, above all, that investment can be relaunched. The constraints are certainly eased with the measure under consideration, but they have not disappeared and, in the face of Mr Del Barba's optimism, I recommend that we use greater caution. The Maastricht parameters show that they would have to contain the public debt and restore the budgets of the States and, instead, in Italy we found ourselves with a public debt of approximately €2,230 billion in April and a debt-to-GDP ratio of more than 132%. In a few months' time, I would not like to be able to find ourselves in a situation that is further deteriorated: this risk, which is very high with the current Renzi Government. It is for this reason that this Government, with its group, must be sent home by voting no to the next referendum on the reform of the Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u94	She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u95	Madam President, this draft law amends, in some parts of it, Law No 243 of 2012, so-called "reinforced law," which contains provisions for the implementation of the principle of balance-of-balance-sheet within the meaning of the sixth paragraph of Article 81 of the Constitution. In particular, the proposed amendment to the provisions of Chapter IV (balance of the budgets of regions and local authorities and their contribution to the sustainability of public debt) is the subject of the proposal. The purpose of the bill is to adapt the public finance constraints of the local authorities to the reform of the accounts of the local authorities, including through processes of simplification of procedures. Specifically, the measure replaces the four reference balances of the budgets of the regions and local authorities, providing for a single non-negative balance in terms of competence between final revenue and final expenditure, both in the forecast and in the reporting phase. In addition, debt operations and the use of the surplus from previous years for investment operations are regulated. Finally, it is entrusted to a state law to assist the self-employed in the sustainability of debt through payments to the fund for the depreciation of government bonds, taking into account the evolution of the economic cycle. But let's make order. The aforementioned Law No 243 was passed, at the time of the "Governissimo" Monti, by a Parliament almost chorusfully prone to the European Union, which had imposed it in the name of financial rigour. Among the demands of Brussels, there was also that of strengthening the principles of sustainability of public budgets by introducing them into the Constitution. To this end, Constitutional Law No. 1 of 2012, of which Law No. 243 dictates the implementing provisions, was enacted. The horror of debt was translated into a discipline that not only stiffened the Constitution, but reduced - beyond all reasonableness - the margins of manoeuvre of governments, with the obvious consequence of imposing even more restrictive economic policies. In particular, it has seriously questioned the possibility of implementing social policies, which nevertheless find a reference in our constitutional principles. They de facto turned the Constitution against itself! The initiative was accompanied by a punitive atmosphere, overturning on the citizen the responsibilities of an entire leadership, entrepreneurial, political and administrative class. And the changes that inspired the dominant doctrines of European policy led by the ECB clerks reduced to absolute nothing the future possibilities of choosing our country's economic policies and progress. And in fact, the complex constraints imposed by this discipline turned out to be a cage capable of stifling any signal of recovery. In this context, the draft law laid down by the Commission seems to be included, which would aim to lighten this complex of conditions before they become binding. Reinforced Law No. 243 of 2012 constitutes the implementation of the constitutional amendment for the introduction of the principle of balanced budget into the Italian Constitution, a rule against which the 5 Star Movement has always been strongly opposed. Therefore, although we persist in our opposition to the inclusion in the Constitution of the principle of balanced budget, we agree, however, that there is a need for reform of Law No 243 of 2012. But at the same time, we are convinced that in some cases, as usual, the remedy that we would like to place on some anomalies of this law is worse than evil. That is why we should have limited ourselves to voting against this measure. However, we have tabled a number of amendments with a view to improving some of its parts, particularly in favour of simplifying the budgetary rules imposed on local authorities and stimulating investment by local authorities. In our opinion, the amendments contained in Articles 3 and 4 of the measure appear particularly critical. In fact, the changes made to Articles 11 and 12 of Law No 243 of 2012 operate a simplification of the mechanism of civic equalization envisaged, eliminating all automatism and abolishing the obligation both to foresee in the Document of economy and finance the amount of resources to be handled in the different phases of the cycle, and to submit to the opinion of the Chamber the criteria of division adopted. On the other hand, neither in the current text of Law No 243 of 2012 nor in that resulting from the revision, is it envisaged that the State should transfer to the local authorities a greater proportion of expenditure capacity possibly resulting from the application of the flexibility clauses provided for in the European rules, in case they relate to phenomena likely to affect local finance. We do not believe that this draft law is in the desired direction of simplifying and defining a flexible speedy procedure for implementing investment. In any event, it should be borne in mind that the level of State funding at the essential levels of assistance and services, as well as the basic functions, the standards of which are defined centrally, must also be calculated on the basis of actual needs, although defined by specific rules. The limits of public expenditure are strict and cannot be ignored when defining the level of benefits to be paid. However, we also need to be aware that it is unthinkable to define the essential levels of assistance without ensuring its financing at the same time. Otherwise, spending would only fall to other levels of government, without having a benefit in the field of public finance. The proposed procedural simplification increases the margin of discretion of the Government on the measure of intervention to mitigate the effects of the local public finance cycle, which is faced with greater uncertainty about the resources available to local administrations and, therefore, a reduction of their programming capacity. Finally, it should be noted that the introduction of numerous references to the ordinary law of the State, without particular boundaries of the areas of matter, does not help to draw up that framework of certain rules, stable relationships and shared objectives that the discipline on budgetary balance and on debt sustainability should ensure. The Constitution, Madam President, has been wisely envisaged as a solidarity programme: home, work, health, education, environment, justice. Everything needs public intervention and little remains to the Italians if they subordinate their rights to the budget accounts. Social rights must always be guaranteed and not degraded to mere limits. We are aware that strict controls are needed and that wrong spending robs the citizen. But through a mortally rigorist trap you can also commit the same ignoble theft, preventing public spending solidarity. The dimension of rights is founded and very fragile. It is a dimension that always needs to be argued and defended, all the more so in a period of serious economic and political crisis such as what we are experiencing. We of the Movement constantly remember that rights could represent an extraordinary opportunity to relaunch politics; an opportunity to regain legitimacy and incisiveness, returning to the lives of people, their bodies, their daily needs and aspirations; opportunities that, however, so far, your politics has not grasped. Finally, I would like to remind you of the heartfelt appeal of the Nobel laureates in the economy against balanced budgets in the Constitution, which strongly stated that no important country hinders its economy with the constraint of balanced budgets. For this reason there was no and there is still no need to make our country wear a shirt of economic strength like the one that was wanted by Monti, and not only by him. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u96	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u97	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us concerns the accounting of the budgetary positions of the regions and territorial authorities; it provides for the correction of the reinforced law implementing the constitutional rule on budgetary balance, adopted after the amendment - which took place in 2012 - of Article 81 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and sets itself as the primary objective to make more appropriate use of the resources available to each individual body in charge of the government of the territory. The reinforced law is subjected, as it were, to a "cutting." In fact, this review will see us engaged both on this measure, which concerns the territorial authorities, and on the bill approved by the House and now under consideration by the Budget Committee, which is also updating the law of accounting and public finance. Basically, the rules that we are going to amend now are intended to allow the regions and municipalities, including through a strengthening of regionalised pacts, to use the budgetary surpluses, but also to resort to debt, freeing up important resources for investment. The European obligations, the constitutional law and then the reinforced law, which - as colleagues have already pointed out - is a very particular ordinary law, by virtue of the absolute majority necessary for its approval, have put precise constraints on the balance of the budget. It is now expected that the budgets of the territorial authorities (regions, autonomous provinces, provinces, metropolitan cities and municipalities) will be balanced when a non-negative balance is obtained, in terms of competence, between final revenue and final expenditure, both in the forecast and in the reporting phase. This reduces the constraints on budgets, but it remains, however, a prior and final check on the final balance of competence. It is expected that the tied multi-annual fund, intended for capital expenditure, will facilitate the planning of expenditure on the territory, encouraging its integration, leading to a higher level of investment. For the local authorities, it is possible to reclassify any debt into constant shares, divided in three years. There is also an attempt to change the mindset in this draft law in the way of tackling the problems of the levels of government of the territory, because, finally, with regard to the local authorities, rewards are also introduced and not only sanctions, as has been so far, among other things with an appreciable mechanism such as the one inserted during the work of the Budget Commission. It has probably been noted that the levels of government closest to the people have suffered too many penalties and are those that in recent years have paid the highest price to balance public finances. Too many sacrifices were sacrificed in the name of budget balances and too many financial cover obtained through cuts in transfers to Municipalities, Provinces and Regions, used in spending laws, whether they were financial laws or one of the many law decrees born with the intent to "save" Italy. Wrong was also the idea of using the municipal tax instrument to allocate it - for more than 40% of the total resources - to the horizontal equalisation of other local authorities. It should also be stressed that the only rules relating to the Internal Stability Pact and new accounting have resulted in municipal budget cuts of more than EUR 3 billion over the last five years. The reality is that citizens really cannot do without the services provided on the territory to the community, because they are the ones materially closest to their needs. The sacrifice - let me remind you - has been heavy, managing to reduce the total resources available to the Municipalities (climbed in the last five years of 3.8 billion, in the 8,000 Municipalities) and to reduce the volume of investments in their territories (climbed by 25% in the same period). The Provinces, with the few resources left, can not even cope with the essential functions identified by the Delrio law, which, basically, has emptied them of competences. But there are, for example, two of these competences on which cutting has an important impact. The first example I would like to make is the maintenance of roads: we see every day, in our former Provinces, how the mantle of controlled roads is reduced (130,000 kilometers of competence). The second example concerns the high schools: 5,000 throughout Italy, more and more dilapidated, where the alarm for the collapses of plasters or false ceilings is recurrent. And it is really sad to think that even the solidity of a school building has become one of the parameters to consider for the choice of the school to be attended by our children. Just as sad to think that parents need to self - tax themselves to buy goods of primary benefit. Well, because of the cuts, this year the Provinces will have a structural deficit of over EUR 1 billion. Even regions, whose fundamental function should be to guarantee standards of quality services that are homogeneous, such as - for example - in the primary health sector, continue to have poor budgets. We all know that, unfortunately, they too have paid an important price in the name of public finance maneuvers. The same Regions now live in limbo until the celebration of the constitutional referendum that, if approved, would relegate them to marginal competences, having been reduced - as we know - their power as a result of the rewriting of Title V of the Constitution. On the contrary, economic resources are needed and, above all, multiannual planning of expenditure is needed to share investment. It is now essential to create a new framework of local public finance that fully involves and empowers all levels of government in the territory. It is essential to return to a framework of own resources that can guarantee a level of revenue that ensures the essential levels of services and services rendered on each territory. In return, however, the State must reduce the weight of the central tax levy. On the contrary, we read that the only positive data that arrive on the work of this Government are those relative to the performance of the revenues, which record the taxes charged to the Italians in continuous increase, despite the substantial stalemate of the GDP. Unfortunately, the new articulation of accounting laws affecting local and regional authorities also makes that uncertainty persist due to an annual planning framework (i.e. based on a too short period), which depends on annual budgetary laws and the consequent choices of derived finance. Moreover, at this time, it is also affected by the mistakes made in the economic policy choices made in recent years and by the too many bills of exchange. I am referring to the safeguard clauses on VAT and excise duties, which the Government has decided to impose on the public accounts for the next few years. [[Applause from Senator Floris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u98	Senator Lucherini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u99	Madam President, the draft law of government initiative, which amends the law of 24 December 2012, n. 243, aims to achieve a plurality of purpose. Firstly, it seeks to make an important contribution which local authorities and the regions very much need. I am referring to the simplification of the regulatory framework on budgetary balance. With regard to the areas that concern decentralised bodies such as regions and local authorities, the measure aims to guarantee and simplify the possibility for the same bodies to plan and predict local public expenditure thus favouring an expansionary policy. We all know that we need this very much and that public investment at both national and local level is needed to support recovery. We are all aware that in Europe, but in particular in our country, we have a system of laws, constraints and charges that has often prevented investment from being made even where there was the necessary resources. For too many years we have had a system that has given the municipalities, and in the past also the Provinces, a theoretical possibility of investment, but that could not be done because the constraints and the rules prevented it. The Governor of the Bank of Italy himself, in his recent final considerations, among other things, has emphasized, in order to support a recovery that is in place but that must be corroborated, the necessity of a revival of the public investments in infrastructures both immaterial and material. The draft law that we are called to examine is aimed at promoting investments in the territory both through the use of debt and through the use of administrative surpluses, strengthening the role of the Regions as direction cabins in the context of the territory of reference. In particular, with regard to Article 2, significant changes are made to Article 10 of Law No 243 of 2012, not affecting the provisions allowing territorial authorities to use debt to finance investment costs and the adoption of depreciation plans of a duration not exceeding the useful life of the investment. The amendments relate to three specific aspects and take account of paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 and Article 10 of Law No 243. In particular, the first amendment stipulates that debt transactions and investment transactions carried out through the use of the administrative results of previous years shall be carried out on the basis of appropriate regional arrangements and that they shall ensure, for the reference year, that the non-negative balance of all the territorial authorities of the region concerned, including the same regional administration, is respected. The amendment introduced, therefore, also makes the use of the surplus of previous years for investment transactions conditional on the acquisition of a regional agreement. Therefore, in line with the changes introduced, the reference to the final cash balance disappears. The second amendment repeals paragraph 4 of Article 10 of Law No 243, with which it is foreseen in the accounts, in the presence of the failure to respect the balance of the final cash management, the contribution of the negative balance to the determination of the balance of the final cash management of the following year in all the entities of the Region concerned, broken down among the entities that have not respected the expected balance. This repeal is justified by the changes introduced which no longer provide for the achievement of the balance of final cash management. Finally, the amendment to paragraph 5 of Article 10 redefines, specifying it, the rules relating to the criteria and the procedures for implementing the aforementioned Article. Such discipline is entrusted to a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers and provides that the modalities of the implementation of the substitution power of the State in case of inertia or delay by the Regions and autonomous Provinces are also included. Therefore, on the whole, it is a measure that intends, while respecting the balance of the budget, to favour the ability to invest in the territory through both the use of debt and the use of the administrative surpluses, as well as strengthening the role of the Regions as a direction cabin in the context of the territory of reference of each individual Region. It is an important measure, which simplifies and facilitates the fundamental work of the system of local authorities and the thousands of mayors and hundreds of regional councillors and administrators who are often too bound up in their work. It determines the conditions for a more sustained intervention on the investment front to support a recovery that the measures of the Government in our country and the relationship that we have now established in Europe with the flexibility that we have recently managed to obtain have already begun to produce in our country. This recovery must be sustained and the measure under consideration is also useful for this purpose. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u100	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u101	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u102	Madam President, I have listened carefully to the speeches made by my colleagues from all the groups, who have produced a number of requests to which I am trying to respond in a synthetic way, partly because many speeches have retraced a bit the history of the content of the document and, above all, the history of local authorities since 2010-2011. The story is before everyone's eyes, but there's one last piece of history that I don't think has been highlighted. I am referring to the fact that since 2014, but particularly in 2015, many things have changed for local authorities. It is clear that there is still a long way to go, but much has changed. There has certainly been a reversal of the trend, both in Decree-Law No. 78 of 2015, and in the law of stability 2016 which, for the first time, instead of having the transfers cut to local authorities, has seen a change of sign. Added to this is the new decree-law, which is being examined by the House of Deputies, and the measure under consideration, which changes the systematic rules of budgetary governance. I believe that we must take these elements into account. It seems to me that the comments on the substance of the measure are quite contained. A few observations by the Court of Auditors are even more careful: if we really wanted to look at the document produced during the hearings, the Court of Auditors invited us to be more cautious, while we went in the opposite direction, increasing the opportunities for the municipalities to work independently. I believe that this measure is balanced. The next budget law (also reformed, because there will no longer be the old stability law, but indeed the new budget law) will take account of the new regulations on the harmonisation of public budgets and will be the first place where we will begin to talk again about funding. In fact, I repeat, this is a system law that unlocks the possibilities of the municipalities in the management of budgets and it seems to me that in recent years a great result has been achieved. It would seem to me a great step forward if we could have all the rules by August to be able to define the budgets of the local authorities, without forgetting that in recent years the spending review has been heavily punitive, even if the spending review is due, and there have been some cuts in transfers linked to an inevitable consolidation of our budget. I always remember that in the management of their budgets, families cannot be indebted for life: if you bought the car, the house and also the house by the sea, sooner or later someone asks for it and you have to start paying the debts, even giving back the house to the sea. In the management of the budget of a Member State, too, we cannot avoid this kind of prudential behaviour. We have spent very difficult years of crisis, and I believe that the last two years, 2015 and 2016, have really been characterized by a different relationship with local authorities, which is ripening from the point of view of both the rules and the financing. So much so that the results are there, because, after having had the least sign ahead for a long time, investments in the territorial authorities have resumed to grow since last year. Measures like the one under consideration, together with the law of stability 2016 and the next budget law, but also minor interventions, such as the possibility, even for the smaller municipalities, to spend up to 40,000 euros in small local investments without the respect of regulations so compelling and limiting especially in the speed of time, certainly help in terms of flexibility. I share some concerns about the difficulty in managing the Provinces; there has certainly been a period of great transition, which has seen an institutional change and a process of relocation of staff that has certainly been the largest since the post-war period, because the number of people to be relocated was really high. As regards the municipalities and the municipal solidarity fund, I must say that I often hear the opinion of the municipal bodies, and not only those of my Province, since I often go around because they ask me to talk about the budgetary policies of the local authorities. Not later than last week I attended a meeting at which representatives of some municipalities were present who complained a lot; but I had before me a audience of many municipalities, especially small municipalities, who did not complain at all, because from the solidarity fund had had a large entrance. So those who saw themselves reduced the entrance were screaming a lot, but the others were silent, nice covered, so as not to get into too much discussion. This means that surely there is still a path to take; but there are already laws in itinere, such as the decree-law in conversion to the House, which addresses some of the problems, and however the process that has been activated is definitely a virtuous process, which will help to start writing budgets for 2017 in useful times. The piece we make today is definitely a piece of this puzzle and is a very important piece. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u103	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u104	Madam President, in my opinion it is very important politically to stress that, as happened in the House for the reform of the accounting law (which has now come to the Senate), the comparison in the Budget Committee on the reform of Law No 243 of 2012 took place in a climate of genuine cooperation between the Groups. Beyond the final vote, which was one abstention vote for the opposition groups, the amendments tabled to the Commission by the various parliamentary groups, apart from whether or not they were accepted, were in some cases tabled by a single majority or opposition group. However, on fundamental issues (e.g. the presence or absence of the multi-annual fund bound in the balance, as defined by Law No 243) the same amendments were tabled with the signatures of the majority senators and the opposition senators, demonstrating, beyond the Government's bill, a common feeling that there is among the political forces on the issue of the budgetary decision and the budgetary holding of the local authorities and regions. In my opinion, this common feeling is also to be linked - if I am mistaken, reality will be asked to demonstrate it - with the fact that by now all the main political forces of the country, in this rather than in that other municipality, are called to carry out functions of government and therefore raise the problem of the budgetary decision and the proper management of the budget of the local authorities as a problem of a cross-cutting type to the political forces. Now, it is good that it is so because these two norms, the one contained in the law of accounting, reached the Senate by the House, and the one that we are now preparing to examine in the Chamber here in the Senate, relating to Law 243, are, as is said in the jargon, rules of system, that is, norms that have constitutional importance (even if they are not constitutional law), because the law of accounting and the so-called reinforced law n. 243 are both essential to make possible the implementation of Article 81 of the Constitution and, as long as it is in force, the Constitution is not of the Government and of the pro-temporaneous majorities: the Constitution is the Constitution. On the other hand - history has taught us - the parliaments, as we know them today, are born on the budgetary decision; they are born when Giovanni Senzaterra, at the beginning of 1200, is forced to grant to the English barons, who were marching on London because they had got tired of paying wars that had not helped to decide, the Magna Charta Libertatum, in which essentially the sovereign is forced to attribute a form of codecision on the budget and the choice to wage war, that is on the war and the way to finance it, to be shared with an assembly of representatives. I am not saying that this was a Parliament as we know it today, but it is significant that the fundamental principle, namely no taxation without representation and no representation without some form of participation in contributing to the expenditure of the State through taxation, has centuries of history behind it. So the budget is a constitutional decision for the parliaments, and it is good that it is carried out in accordance with shared procedures. It seems to me that I can say, having represented the Government, in the debate in the Chamber first and in the Senate then, respectively, on these two laws, that this climate exists, beyond the fact that now in the Chamber there is always recourse to some polemical element, which is fully justified by the fact that we turn from these benches also directly to the country. I assure you that none of this has happened in the Commission and there has been a debate on the substance. Coming to the merits, why is the reform of Law n. 243 of 2012 necessary for the part of that law that concerns the budget of the Regions and local self-governments? In order to respond correctly, we need to go back to Article 81 of the Constitution, which I stop defining as new, because it has been in force for a long time and we better take note of it. Here too we continue to support, and it was also done this evening, in this debate, that Article 81 of the Constitution "stupidly" would introduce in Italy the obligation to balance the budget, thereby jeopardising - it is claimed - the possibility of developing anti-cyclical policies. [[Comments of the Senator Council]] This is because, as is well known, if I balance both in particularly strong growth conditions and in recession conditions, I am denying fiscal policy the possibility of intervening, when there is particularly strong growth, through the surplus to "put in the farm" the resources necessary to intervene when the recession will suggest to implement deficit policies. Now, the question is very simple: is it based on the judgment given on Article 81 as it is written in the Constitution? It is clear that this judgment is not well founded, because Article 81 of the Constitution affirms the principle of budgetary balance, taking into account the adverse phases and the favourable phases of the economic cycle. It is the translation of the principle into constitutional language, language that could never have used the notion of structural balance (or at least until now we have not arrived, then who knows). [[Senator Buccarella's comments.]] Never in the Constitution could have used a technical concept such as that of structural balance, so the constituent wrote that the State ensures the balance of the budget by taking into account the adverse phases and the favorable phases of the economic cycle. What does that mean? That the constraint is not the nominal balance of the budget. The nominal balance of the budget is: revenue minus expenditure equals zero; the balance of which the Constitution speaks is that which allows a, even significant, fluctuation around zero of the balance of the budget. When the country is in recession it will be a downward swing, that is, towards debt, in order to allow anti-cyclical fiscal policies, to the condition - and this is the novelty - that when there is no recession, indeed when there is barely significant growth, of course the budget goes in surplus, in order to swing around zero financing the phases in which, instead, you have to make deficit. That is the principle set out in the Constitution. One may be in favour of this, or against it, may propose, programmatically, to amend this article of the Constitution and, of course, in political confrontation, this is absolutely legitimate; it is not legitimate, however, in my opinion, to continue to claim to discuss Article 81 by saying that there is in it the constraint of nominal balance of budget, which is clearly not true. So much so, Article 81 of the Constitution says that "The use of debt is allowed only in order to consider the effects of the economic cycle". Why would it be written in the Constitution that recourse to debt is allowed when the economic cycle requires to consider its negative character, if the objective was nominal balance? This rule in the Constitution would not make sense if things were not exactly as I tried to recall. The nominal balance is therefore not the objective of the public administration as a whole. And here we come to Law No. 243 of 2012. The nominal balance is instead the objective that concerns the keeping of the budget of the Regions and local self-governments, where, of course, it is set, today, by Law No 243 (exactly the law we are discussing, exactly in the part we are dealing with with with with a proposed modification), with the forecast of the famous four balances: budget estimates, balance accounts, balance of budget on the competence and cash side, on the revenue and current expenditure side. A target set in such strict terms that, in my view, corrective action is needed. The reason why we are here is this: to introduce a corrective in the balance sheet of bodies, regions and municipalities, so as to overcome the excessive rigidity that was determined, at the time of the adoption of Law 243, with the determination of the objectives around the famous so-called four balances. And what do we do with this law? With this law we say that there is only one objective: the balance of competence between final revenue and final expenditure must be in balance. Of course, we take action accordingly on that part of Law No 243, which, precisely to address the problem that has been raised here, further complicates matters in the presence of those four balances to be respected. What, in fact, does the next article of Law No 243 that we are going to amend today say? The legislator raised the problem that respect for the four balances could mean that at the level of local authorities an anti-cyclical budgetary policy would not have been possible, which instead had to be allowed. In Law 243, then, the aim is to introduce the principle of anti-cyclical fiscal policy with regard to local authorities, with a true climbing on the mirrors, which naturally leads to a set of rules that, when they crossed each other, appeared excessively rigid. In the Budget Committee we have further developed the modification already proposed by the Government on this part to introduce, around the Solidarity Fund, the principle that, through fiscal policies decided nationally, the State can allow the system of local autonomy, with greater ease and on the basis of the principle of co-responsibility of the local authorities of each Region (including the Region), the development of anticyclical policies when the cycle is negative. The reason why, therefore, there was a need to amend Law No 243 of 2012 is precisely that of having a law, with regard to the budgetary decision and the characteristics of the local government's budgetary policy, which responded to the need for greater flexibility in a context in which the principle of budget balance was established and the principle of nominal and non-structural local government balance was reaffirmed, using, for the characterization of the structural balance of the local government's budget, the mechanism of central State aid. This context is widely shared - I repeat: beyond the expression of the vote - and the fact that it is widely shared is a reference value and I do not understand why you scare someone: if it is widely shared it is so, one makes a reason for it and brings it forward), in this context, there has been a problem on which, instead, the solutions, at least in part, differed: a very important problem. You know that, as far as the 2016 budget is concerned, with the law of stability, the Government has proposed - and Parliament has further expanded - the spaces for the finance of local authorities, in particular on the side of the use, through the creation of the multi-year bound fund, of surplus administrative shares that the character - yes, stupid - of the Internal Stability Pact, of the last almost twenty years, had ended up swelling. It is obvious, in fact, that if an internal stability pact is established which imposes the surplus on the budgets of local authorities, over time, in surplus, a huge surplus of local authorities will be built. And in fact, when a mayor meets a Member or a Senator, no matter if he is a majority or a minority, he just has to deal with the national budget decision, he always tells him the same thing: But how? I have the money at my disposal, I'm virtuous and you don't let me spend it? He was and is right, so much so that on this there is the turning point 2016: at least in part, with the multi-year bound fund, shares of the surplus enter the possibility of being used, in particular for capital expenditure. What was the solution originally proposed by the Government in Law No 243 of 2012? It was a solution which, of course, did not find the satisfaction of the Groups, of any Group, either by majority or by minority, since everyone tabled amendments to a text that said that the multi-annual bound fund was not in the balance but would enter the balance with the annual budget law. The original text stated that the annual budget law decides how much and how much of the tied multi-year fund enters the balance. The solution proposed by the rapporteur and then approved by the Commission reverses this principle and says exactly the opposite, thus responding to a call from the system of self-government, governed by whoever it is, by all: it says that the tied multi-annual fund is part of the balance. That's how it is, point-to-point. This has been happening since 2020 and be careful to think that 2020 is particularly far away on such issues. The rule goes on to state that between 2017 and 2019, not the annual law - as the Government originally said - but the three-year budget law sets the rules through the almost multi-year bound fund enters the balance. Of course, the immediate decision will be taken with the 2017-2019 budget law that we would approve in a few months' time, but in a system rule the essential thing is to have established that the multi-year bound fund is within the balance and it has been since 2020. This is a real leap in quality and amendments to achieve this result had been tabled by all. As you have achieved this, I would tend to underline the positive fact rather than the difference on the solution in the transition between 2017 and 2019. Of course, when we look at the budget law, we will have to deal with the issue of what the size is. We will have the data at the end of July and, if we have evidence that that rule does not result in negative effects of public finance, it may be possible that almost total inclusion is possible even before 2020. I would remind you that this is not a last-minute invention: when we inserted the multi-annual fund bound in the 2016 balance targets, we covered the rule with EUR 660 million and the inclusion of the fund is not total but partial. Therefore, if a few months ago we "spent" EUR 660 million to introduce the multi-annual fund into the balance, it is quite clear that if today in the system rule we set a rule for which that fund is within the balance and we do not add further details, we should identify a coverage of more than EUR 2 billion. It is clear, however, that this does not make sense today, because now we have to discuss a rule under the regime (the one under discussion), except to see how to regulate the transition phase towards achieving that regime solution. I have finished my speech; I thank the rapporteur and all the parliamentary groups for the reason I have already said, because there is no doubt that the measure that is being brought to the House for approval is quite different, on a fundamental point, from the one originally proposed by the Government and in my opinion it is a diversity - as the Government says so I think everyone can share it - positive and not negative. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u105	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u108	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to speak on the question 3-2908, which I tabled a few months ago, regarding the assessment of the situation of the prison in Monza. I had submitted this question after a series of events involving the staff in some absolutely unpleasant and dangerous episode, both for prisoners and for prison police guards. As a result of my question, I have personally come to the conclusion that there is a situation in the prison in Monza, and I have taken a number of considerations which I would like to share with the House when I ask the answer to that question. The first point is that this is a very large prison facility with few staff resources: this is a condition that must be taken into account, as I have already asked in my question. I would like to assess the situation from two angles: the first concerns the need to equip these prisons, in particular Monza, with the possibility of really involving the prisoners in a rehabilitation process that also sees them as protagonists of some sporting activity. In this sense, I have been informed of a major deficiency in the prison in Monza. The second profile, on the other hand, concerns the need to help those who live every day inside the prison - I am referring to the prison police - a situation of great stress and tension, both as far as it can happen to them personally, but also for what is their own life within these structures. I would therefore like to ask, in particular, the Minister's answer to this question, but more generally on all the measures that we want to take, because this is an issue that we often forget when it should be brought to our attention once and for all.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u111	DIRINDIN (PD). Madam President, unfortunately, yet another murder has taken place in the home. This time it happened in an apartment on the outskirts of Turin, where a woman was found at home without life. The woman, Diana Gogoroia, thirty-six-year-old Moldovan, long resident in Italy, was found in the bed with her throat cut, while her partner Antonio Missud, an Italian fifty-one-year-old with a history of threat and violence to people, was found in a nearby room, hanged. The investigators believe that it could be a murder-suicide with the jealousy factor at the center. The woman had just returned from a journey she had made alone for a few weeks. Since the start of the relay that we decided to conduct here in the Senate, twelve days ago, there are already four women killed at the hands of a man to whom they were bound by sentimental relationship. With this intervention continues today the relay with which, together with other senators, we will remember every woman who will be killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. ISTAT informs us that in Italy a woman is killed every 2.2 days, and 46 percent of these women die at the hands of their partner. The severity of sexual and physical violence has increased and cases of assisted violence are also growing. In the media, violence against women is almost always described as the result of passionate motives. The stereotype of betrayed honor, which justified the crime of honor, is transformed into that of jealousy, betrayal, abandonment that man has not been able to accept. The man is therefore to be pitied: his was an extreme gesture. An explanation, in short, that, giving a mitigating effect to the culprit, places on the woman a part of responsibility, as guilty of having provoked jealousy. It is a false representation of reality. Femicide is almost always the ultimate result of a series of long-standing violent behaviors. With Law No 119 of 2013 against gender violence, which this Parliament approved in implementation of the Istanbul Convention, our country has recognised violence against women as a violation of human rights and gender discrimination. He acknowledged that violence against women is a social phenomenon that has its roots in the relationship of asymmetrical power between men and women. This is why a plan against violence against women has been proposed and approved and, in the meantime, instruments of protection have been strengthened to ensure greater safety for women under threat. However, it is necessary to monitor that these measures work and that the plan is implemented. On Diana Gogoroia's case, what didn't work? His partner had a history of threats and violence against people. We wonder, then, if it could be prevented. We want to repeat three appeals. An appeal to the Minister for Equal Opportunities and to the Government to monitor the application, the merits and the limits of Law No 119 of 2013 and, above all, to give full and accurate implementation to the Extraordinary Action Plan against sexual and gender violence. An appeal to the media to stop justifying murderers and to blame women and to contribute to the growth of the culture of respect for all women and all people. Finally, an appeal to the country, to men and women: there are 160 women killed every year; we can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u114	Mr Albano (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you may not have heard the news through the national press, because it is not very loud, but I take this opportunity to update you that in the city of Ventimiglia the pressure of the migratory flow of people from sub-Saharan Africa, in particular Nigeria, Eritrea and Sudan, is seriously jeopardising the scarce resources of charitable associations, in particular Caritas, which are currently supplementing the state's intervention, pending the opening of a reception camp - to provide information on the possibility of asylum or international protection and the first aid - which will take place in the next few days in the Roja Park area. Today's presences have been quantified in about 1,200 people, many of whom have arrived in our country through the notorious voyages of death on boats, often through the Egyptian route. Many of them have probably already been identified at different structures in South Italy and this is not the first time they have tried to cross our national borders in order to reach other European countries. Last summer, with the intensification of controls at the French border, it reached a peak of 800 people standing on the territory of Ventimigliese, about a hundred in the immediate vicinity of the state border, stopped on the rocks in protest for the impossibility to cross the borders, and the others welcomed in the temporary field set up in the spaces of Italian Railway Network (RFI) in the railway station, managed by Italian Red Cross and Caritas, supported by many voluntary associations, even French, and the great solidarity demonstrated by the citizens of Ventimigliese, who immediately gathered to help, bringing clothes, blankets and necessities. This year, as the summer approached, the migratory flow is resumed and, in May, about two hundred migrants camped at the mouth of the river Roja, later received hospitality in the churches of the diocese of Ventimiglia, but in June, between the re-immissions on Italian soil by the French authorities, who proceeded at a rate of about 50 people per day on average, and arrivals from South Italy, the number of people hosted in the church of Saint Anthony, in the district of the Gianchette, continued to grow, despite the strong mobility of the migrants themselves, until reaching the current number of 1,200 people. The Ministry of the Interior has provided with controls in the stations of Genoa and Savona to constitute "filters" that prevented the arrival of migrants in the border city and, through the Prefecture, in concert with the municipal administration twenty-miles, is proceeding to set up a new camp - as I said - that however was conceived when the presences of migrants in the city were between 200 and 300 people and such will be its capacity. For more than a month migrants can no longer be welcomed in the church spaces, for reasons of capacity, and have created shelters of fortune in the in front of the parking lot and again on the banks of the river Roja, with only two toilets available. You understand that the water and sewage system is in danger of collapse, with serious health consequences. Another issue that deserves attention is the growing social tension. The city of Ventimiglia and voluntary associations are doing everything possible, but alone they cannot give effective answers to migrants and the inhabitants of the neighborhood. I would also like to highlight the incidents of xenophobic political exploitation, which tend to foment such tensions, particularly of the North League, although several organizations of the extra-parliamentary right are no less. The twenty thousand situation deserves attention, to protect citizens and migrants. You will also be aware of the sad phenomenon of passeurs, jackals who, upon payment, promise the border crossing to migrants by footpaths or by means of their transport on vehicles such as vans or trucks. Fortunately there were no tragedies like the Austrian one last summer, when 71 migrants were found asphyxiated in an abandoned truck, but the risk is that. Not to mention that organized crime could also find fertile ground in the trafficking - because we are talking about this - of migrants, since the presence of the 'ndrangheta in the Ligurian West is reiterated by the judgments of the La Svolta trial. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support in the institutional fora any possible help that can ease this tension on the city of Ventimiglia and I ask the Government to agree with the municipal administration, the local police and humanitarian organizations more resources and greater spaces for the reception of migrants, as well as more information tools at the same. Finally, I would like to conclude with a wish for the protection of unaccompanied minors. The Government's willingness to double the dedicated fund and increase the relief from the host municipalities is recent news. Please do so as soon as possible. It is not possible that many children still fall into the hands of those who intend to exploit them and that many of them lose track of them. Italy is a country that welcomes, is a country that respects and implements international and European legislation regarding respect for human rights. Italy must not allow this to happen in Ventimiglia. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u117	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, Facebook is an American multinational that has become a universal arena of 1,550 million people worldwide, with 26 million users active in Italy. 21 million Italians practically use it every day! A social network service - so they define themselves - suddenly decides, in a completely arbitrary way, that a documentary of Italian nationality with a normal visa of censorship and prohibition at the age of fourteen - that represented our country at international festivals such as the Rotterdam, Buenos Aires, Warsaw, São Paulo, and Moscow festivals, projected a couple of weeks ago in one of the symbolic places of French cinema in Paris, at the Forum des images in Les Halles - must be obscured, censored and removed from circulation. Why, you ask yourself? Because the manifesto of this documentary, uploaded on the official page of Facebook, shows a nipple (which also appears in a scene taken from a 1970 movie used as a poster). A woman's nipple according to Facebook standards is hardly "respectable." But the most serious thing is that Facebook this time didn't just censor an image, just as it had already done for the famous painting of Courbet, "L'origine du monde". In this case, in fact, the social network, without any official explanation, without notice and without having ever responded to requests for explanations from the authors of the documentary, obscures and makes disappear the same page that promoted the film, the result of a work built in a year and a half with thousands of users. Facebook obscures reflections, contributions, images, photos, interviews - there was also one of the last interviews released by Pannella - and even comes to block for a month the personal page of the same director of the documentary, Carmine Amoroso - incredible - by removing him from the community and preventing him from communicating with anyone who wants to get in touch with him. Facebook not only becomes a censor, but also imposes sanctions without the possibility of replying, as in a summary process where there is no possibility of defending itself. It is a real violation of freedom of expression, a grave injustice for an independent film born also thanks to the support of the network. It should also be emphasized that the most paradoxical element of this story consists in the fact that the documentary in question tells the story of a group of people who fifty years ago, in a hyper-religious, demo-Christian and bigoted Italy and with an even more moralist Communist Party, with great courage and stubbornness, suffering all sorts of lynching, have struggled precisely against censorship, for civil rights and sexual freedom. They are people who have been sentenced and who have also been arrested so that a woman's breasts can be seen in the sunlight and photographed without being censored. Alas, a movie against censorship is censored. Finally, let me complain loudly about the absolute institutional silence on this matter (today I am informed). With regard to intellectual works entirely conceived in Italy, it does not seem fair that the censor authority is entirely the responsibility of foreign subjects. It is not acceptable that any voice should be raised from the State governments concerned, governments of countries that - it was said - have overcome with severe struggle the narrow links of censorship and that should be in the front line to defend those civil rights so hard conquered even against foreign entrepreneurs who seem to be historically far behind on these issues. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u120	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, can you ask the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Renzi, and the Ministers for Labour and Economic Development, if they know what it feels like when people are fired and there is no work? President, 40 workers from the NCA shipyard in Marina di Carrara are appealing these days and asking for help from honest politicians and citizens, adding that if the company believes that money is medicine for all of them they answer that work is not bought and not sold. Mr President, I fully marry their appeal and not only: I would add that, if we are still in a rule of law and not in a state of regime, I have the right to have answers to my many questions about - let me pass the term - the crap that is being done in the hands of workers at the NCA shipyard in Marina di Carrara. It's time to stop being a merchant's ear. President, the first act I filed for the attention of Minister Poletti on 17 February 2015, the second one I addressed to former Minister Guidi on 22 April 2015, the speeches in the Chamber on the topic NCA I no longer count them. Another question I filed on November 30, 2015, with abbreviated procedure in the hope of having an answer: all useless. Now on the case NCA and the Port of Carrara is also investigating the proxy, I remember, on the case of the reintegration of workers and employees in exchange for many concessions, including the state property for thirty years with expiration on 31 December 2042. The prosecutor, as always, arrives before the politicians and before the government? A lot of protagonists are involved in this. I would not have to think that someone is considered, in this shameful case, an untouchable. President, the anger of the workers who are risking dismissal is my own anger. The indignation at the total abandonment of the parties, as they say, institutional, trade union and territorial, is my own indignation. Today I have a fourth question which will come back to the drawers of various ministers. What should I do, as a Member of Parliament and as a representative of the people, to make myself consider myself, Mr President, do I have to set myself on fire? What is happening in Marina di Carrara is very serious and could be avoided. For more than two years, the 5 Star Movement has been fighting for clarity on the NCA case. In my questions I also ask for access to data and documents which form an integral part of the agreement which allowed the transfer of the subsidiary company from Invitalia to a private individual, the entrepreneur Giovanni Costantino, with a pact for the reintegration of workers. So, as I was saying, are we still waiting for the comfort of the various ministries or are we beginning to think that the proxy should provide us with the data we need? Mr President, a few days ago I met the workers of the NCA company again and I tend to reiterate the concept that dignity is priceless and that not everyone is yet on sale. As long as the work is our right, enshrined in the Constitution and even included in its first article, we of the 5 Star Movement will be at their side and we will fight with them for answers and justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u121	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-658.ana.u122	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 13 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.01 p.m.
