ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1738, 548, 630, 1056, 1202, 1292 and 1798. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 3 March the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate and the rapporteur's reply took place. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u9	Madam President, my reply will be very brief, first of all to express my appreciation for the considerable contribution that the Senate has made to the improvement of this measure, thanks to the patient work not only of the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, but of the whole Commission, without distinction between majority and opposition. The debate in this House also shows a substantial sharing of the general arrangement of this important measure, which deals with the overall reorganization of the honorary judiciary, which is an important part of the justice system, and puts an end to the system of repeated extensions to which the Government has been forced to overcome the emergency. During the debate some critical elements were highlighted, which concern not so much the general layout of the measure as the transitional discipline. Some of these points may be overcome by the Government's acceptance of some of the proposed amendments. For the time being, I will stop here and reserve the right to speak for further clarification during the examination of the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u10	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u11	Madam President, the Group of the North Legacy has proposed a number of amendments to Article 1, which I do not intend to explain in detail, but to explain its overall intention. The aim is to make a useful contribution to a reform that is certainly not easy and very technical. We believe that we have tabled amendments aimed at at at least improving the text. Among all, I highlight in particular amendment 1.12, which suggests extending the competence of the honorary judiciary in some cases, especially in the civil sector, by subject matter and by value. This proposal is intended to increase its competence reasonably in the sense of exploiting (this term is given to me) the honorary judiciary which, born as a transitional, was finally consolidated, as is often the case in Italy. Given the existence of the honorary judiciary, it is in our view useful to take advantage of the expertise, professionalism and experience it has developed, giving it additional powers, so as to lighten the burden of justice incumbent on the togata judiciary, as is also evident from the data provided by Minister Orlando in the latest Report on the Administration of Justice. In our view, this could be a useful contribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u12	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u13	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u14	Madam President, I would ask you to withdraw Amendments 1.4, 1.5, 1.8 and 1.9, otherwise the opinion will be against it. With regard to amendment 1.12, about which Senator Stefani has just spoken, the opinion is in favour but with the following rewording: "In paragraph 1, replace letter p) with the following: " (p) extend in the criminal field the jurisdiction of the court of peace and extend in the civil sector the competence of the same office for matter and value, and extend for cases whose value does not exceed 2,500 euros the cases of decision according to equity." The text of the proposal for a rewording follows the amendment to Article 2, paragraph 15, after point (g).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u15	Senator Cucca, I would ask you to deliver the written text of the reformulation proposal, since, if I understand correctly, it must be submitted to the Budget Committee for consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u16	Of course, Madam President. The only difference is the forecast of the limit of 2,500 euros, as established by the standard. Finally, I call for Amendments Nos 1,18 and 1,300 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion will be against them. It seems to me, however, that the Budget Committee has also expressed its opposition to Amendment No 1,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u17	The opinion was in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u20	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Article 1 - I would like the rapporteur to listen to me - is a sort of index, because there is no discipline, nor are there any prerequisites or criteria for a discipline to be found. Now, the Stefani amendment - which I would simply have voted to support my colleague - talks about extending the jurisdiction of the peace judge's office in the criminal field; I ask the rapporteur: how can such a thing be done if we do not know what this criminal jurisdiction is and what the limits are? We discussed civil matters in the Commission and the limit of EUR 2,500 was accepted when the magistrate judges on a fair basis. Now, it is not possible to determine a value other than EUR 2,500, which is no longer touched on by the amendments either. So we will find ourselves writing a statement that is not consistent with what is voted on later. Did you follow me, President? We don't have anything in the penalty to determine the value limit. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I followed her, and knowing what she was talking about, I would only give her the floor when we arrived at the amendment. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). We have already set a limit in the civilian sector and there are no amendments. What would be the point of this letter as amended as the rapporteur has said? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u23	CUCCA, rapporteur. As has already been said and as has already been said, it is a general rule which precisely provides for the extension of the powers of the peace judge and, in relation to the content of the existing letter (p), attaches it to the value of decisions according to fairness. That's it. There is absolutely no inconsistency with the original text.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u26	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). The problem we pose is not to oppose the extension of the jurisdiction of the peace court in criminal matters; it is to try to understand by what criteria the delegated legislator must implement this type of enlargement. Madam President, if we are in criminal matters, I think that, in the rewording put forward by the rapporteur, Mr Cucca, there must be a minimum of guiding principle regarding the extension of the criminal jurisdiction of the judge of peace, otherwise we leave the delegated legislator completely free to extend this competence to his own liking, from which - take good care - sentences arise with possible restrictions in prison if, hypothetically, enlargement has been of an excessive nature. Nothing to the contrary, however, provided that there is a guiding criterion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u27	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pending the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 16.49 a.m. and resumed at 16.58 a.m.) The session is resumed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 1.5. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.8 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u30	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, you, perhaps mistakenly, put the Rule to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The amendment. Mr Barani (AL-A). Someone understood the article and our Group found itself in difficulty; the Group's vote is against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u33	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I apologize, what did we vote for? PRESIDENT. - The debate is We voted first on Amendment 1.4, which was rejected, and then on Amendment 1.5, which was rejected. Then the amendment... SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, should it not be put back to the vote, since you said 'Article'? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We still have to get to the article. SANTANGELO (M5S). We thought there had been some change; you said "Article" and we voted on the article.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u34	Let's cancel the previous vote, then. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.8 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 1.12 we are awaiting the opinion of the 5th Commission on the new wording.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u37	CUCCA, rapporteur. Madam President, regardless of the opinion of the Budget Commission, I would ask you to put aside Amendment 1.12 because we are doing some checks. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u38	Amendment 1.12 is therefore set aside. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1,300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,300, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Pending the opinion of the Budget Commission on the rewording of amendment 1.12, Article 1 is set aside. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u39	Madam President, I should like briefly to point out that in Amendments Nos 2.28 and 2.29 we have proposed a form of compensation for trainees. In this respect, we have made a proposal to replace the assumption that no allowance is due to the trainees in the traineeship by the payment of a sum, which we have variously measured in the various amendments. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u40	Madam President, I am speaking as a second signatory on the amendments to Article 2 to Mr Cappelletti's first signature and the amendments to my first signature. I wanted to draw the attention of this House to Amendment 2,105, which we call "exodus avoids" in relation to the area of the honorary judiciary. This amendment proposes, beyond the various articulations of the renewal times proposed in the draft law, in the various amendments of the rapporteur and in the last formulations, to ensure to those who today are in office, perhaps for many years, in the roles of the honorary judiciary and the judges of peace - and we know what is the importance at the numerical and also qualitative level of the impact on civil and criminal litigation of the work carried out by our honorary magistrates - the possibility that until the age of seventy years can be provided for the renewal of the assignment in order to avoid that, while providing the text of law for the approval of the four-year-olds in a number of three or four for the new recruitments or transitional disciplines, we can arrive - as is possible - in cases where, after glory of honored service, the minimum requirements are not met to mature the right to pension with the social security funds to which the "poor" honorary magistrates are obliged to provide with their own resources. Therefore, to set at seventy years, and not later, the age limit for the activity of this staff of the world of justice, we believe that it is a guarantee formula aimed at preventing the risk that we can create exodus figures, that is, of those who perhaps after eight, twelve or more years of service in the roles of the honorary judiciary find themselves unable to continue to carry out that activity, carried out mostly exclusively, without being able to reach the age requirements aimed at obtaining a pension treatment. In addition, Mr President, I would also like to introduce a sub-amendment on Article 2, which deals with a similar subject, aimed at ensuring, once again, the roles of the honorary judiciary. The sub-amendment to which I refer is 2,311 (text 2)/6. With this amendment, which appears on page 3 of the annex II of the file of amendments, we propose to protect so that we believe that the staff of the honorary judiciary are reasonable and not exasperated, not only by setting a ceiling at the age of seventy, but also by trying to fill, at least to a large extent, the various situations of suffering to which the honorary judiciary is subject. We are well aware that these are basically precarious workers who do not enjoy the benefits normally enjoyed by all other employees, i.e. they do not enjoy maternity or pay treatment for the State because they have to provide at pension level with their pockets. With this sub-amendment, at my first signature, we propose to facilitate those who will opt for exclusive service to the honorary judiciary, thus giving up either the free profession of lawyer as often happens, or any other public employment. So, in our opinion, it is right that those who opt for exclusive work in the honorary judiciary should be at least partially compensated for with a decent remuneration treatment and that they can make it possible to fill the various vulnus of the work treatment suffered by the honorary magistrates. In particular, it is a question of comparing the situation of the judges of the highest level with that of the judges of the highest level with that of the judges of the highest level. I repeat, this would compensate at least partially for various situations of suffering, which sometimes also becomes existential, remembering that these are workers without all the safeguards that workers - at least civil servants - normally enjoy. The qualification, more precisely, is that of ordinary magistrate prior to the first qualification of professionalism, however, attention, without possibility of career within the ordinary judiciary. It is a benefit, let us say, that we would like to extend to those who have at least six years of service. In short, after six years of honorary judiciary, with the exception of disciplinary proceedings or adverse assessments, the ability to access this remuneration treatment until the age of seventy, placing that treatment as a maximum limit, we believe that it would certainly be appreciated by the thousands of honorary judges, GOTs, VPOs and peace judges, who keep up the machine of justice. Let us remember that, given the lack of the possibility or will of the State or of the last governments, to provide for a plan of recruitment, of filling the staff of the togata judiciary, these people, men and above all women - even without the rights that motherhood grants to other civil servants - good or bad, as are the structures that the State grants them, keep the hut standing. Therefore, it would be dignified and worthy of a gesture, which Parliament wanted to give, of the recognition of rights in this case too. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u43	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to add my signature to the amendments that have just been tabled. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please remind the Presidency when we arrive at the voting stage.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u44	Madam President, I would like to ask you a minimum of attention because we are considering a reform that concerns people who make a strong contribution to the administration of justice, and they do so, many times, with sacrifice and without even being well paid. I would like to ask you for a moment's attention to understand the system. Otherwise, the way in which we are moving forward, not even myself, who drafted the text and followed the work of the Commission and the amendments, I can understand what we are discussing. The rapporteur should inform us that he has tabled amendments amending the first period of entry into the honorary judiciary. According to what we voted in the Commission, the Government, with a bill of delegation that many times makes water having no criteria, introduced the idea that the professional path, after the appointment as honorary magistrate, was composed of three four-year-olds, of which the first carried out inside the office for the trial. The amendments now reworded by the rapporteur state, however, that there are two four-year-olds in total. The first four years are divided into two, so only in the first two years is the office required for the trial. The presence in the office for the trial means that the honorary magistrate will be with an ordinary career magistrate, who will delegate some tasks to him while, in other periods, he will perform a judicial function. Therefore, one chooses to favour young people - otherwise the choice is not explained - so that a person can give eight years to the State to administer justice, but not creating those expectations that can derive from periods of ten or twelve years. From this point of view, I have tabled Amendment 2301, which states that a commitment must be made to cease all work, as this is an already valid rule for other profiles. In so doing, if a young man, at twenty-four or twenty-five years old, holds that post for eight years, he acquires a specific preparation, which then allows him to do the competition in ordinary judiciary or the lawyer with a preparation and a way of managing the assignment different from what other professionals can have. The logic of the amendments referred to by Maurizio Buccarella agrees with me, but for the magistrates who are in service. In essence, those who have had annual extensions, for years, it is right that they can carry out the assignment until the seventieth year - as I say and as Senator Buccarella says - rather than until the sixty-eighth, as provided by the Government's text, on the basis of a check every four years of their ability. With regard to the second aspect, for the first appointment there is a particularity concerning the Trentino South Tyrol and Valle d'Aosta Regions, according to which the Presidents of those Regions indicate the persons to be appointed. For this reason, with amendment 2.24, I propose a special rule for those regions. Amendment 2.27 is based on the fact that the delegation to Article 2 (f) refers to regulating the duration and the way in which the traineeship is carried out, without adding anything else. Mr President, at least I have proposed replacing the original wording with the following words: 'discipline the way in which the six-monthly traineeship is carried out', because I do not think we want to do a few days' traineeship. If you consider - for example - a six-monthly period, please indicate this, otherwise there will be nothing written about it in the delegation. It is not enough to write: "discipline the duration and the way in which the internship is carried out". Will the Ministry's legislative offices establish, or should Parliament give an indication? I'm not telling you how to do the internship, but the proxy has to tell you how long the internship has to last. As far as the Office for the Process is concerned, it is clear that it must be activated for those who are in the first period of activity, and I have tabled amendment 2.63. Since there are several dark passages in the delegation, it must be made clear that those who have completed the first four years can, by reason of service needs, still be applied for a period at the office for the process, period which, according to objective criteria of turn, can not, however, exceed six months. Also keep in mind that when you return to the office for the trial, the allowance you receive decreases. It is necessary to establish an objective turnaround criterion and a maximum period for those who have now acquired judicial functions after the time of the trial office. Mr President, on the principle that the Government has no jurisdiction, we cannot fail to include in the delegation as long as those who have passed the first four years of activity can remain at the trial office. If this is not done, I will be forced to vote against this measure, because the constitutional rules of the jurisdiction would be violated. Parliament states that those who have acquired judicial functions can go to the trial office, but we do not know how long they are being diverted from judicial functions, but we do not know how long. Although we agree that, for service needs, this can be justified, we must, however, identify the period in the delegation. Let us move on to the amendment proposed by the rapporteur, to which I have tabled a number of sub-amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, excuse me, but you have to explain your amendments. It will take place after the explanations of vote. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I am talking about my amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Not the rapporteur's? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). No. The rapporteur's amendment 2,311, which was then corrected and retabled as text 2, in this respect completely replaced the text voted by the Commission, and I spoke with a few sub-amendments on it. I would ask you to read it, because it says in this amendment that those who are going to be in the trial office (to whom I referred earlier) will have a lower allowance than those who receive in judicial activity. But it is not written anywhere how the allowance is determined for those who carry out judicial activity. So, there is no criterion. It is also said that, for those who carry out judicial activities or duties pertaining to the trial office, account should be taken of the fixed part and the variable part, a bit like today's for tax judges. When Parliament approved the delegation on the basis of which tax justice was regulated - let me look at it, rapporteur - it gave an indication of the minimum and maximum of the fixed part. If nothing is said about the fixed part and it is said that the variable part may vary from 15% to 50% of the fixed part - with my amendment I have raised these limits to 30% and 80% - this means nothing, because a precise indication must be given. Since the whole article is generic, I have tabled an amendment that cannot be determined, Madam Representative of the Government... (The Undersecretary Chiavaroli converses with Senator D'Ascola). Madam Representative of the Government, if we can't discuss these things, then tell us that you just want us to vote, without any reflection. We go away and there is no need to argue. I am telling you, since we are thinking about compensation, that you cannot, through generic phrases, reserve the possibility of doing what you want; Parliament must establish precise criteria in the delegation. Since you do not give these criteria, I propose to introduce a limit: the amount that will be determined by the sum of the variable part and the fixed part will in no case be below what they currently receive (and already receive little) the Deputy Honorary Prosecutors, the Honorary Judges of the Court and the Judges of Peace. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator Caliendo. You will then be able to speak in an explanation of vote. He has already gone beyond the time available to him. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, let us agree. Article 2 concerns three quarters of the delegation and that is what we are discussing. Mr President, I know that, but it has already gone beyond the ten minutes that - as you know - you have available to explain the whole of the amendments. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, if the Government and the rapporteur had to draw up four texts on certain parts of the measure, which we cannot even discuss, I take note of. What do I tell you? I have proposed a general criterion, which is what I referred to. In 2013, after a long debate in this House, we eliminated the absolute priority for those who did an internship in court with regard to the ordinary magistrate contest and we introduced, just two years ago, the preference for appointment as honorary magistrate. And we still agree on that. Now, suddenly, an absolute preference is introduced again, and this contradicts what we have finally voted, in agreement, in this House. Madam President, if I have forgotten anything, be patient. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Keep in mind that you will always be able to speak in an explanation of vote on the amendments, Senator Caliendo. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I realize that there is neither attention nor desire to debate. Then be patient.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u45	Madam President, in fact, Senator Caliendo's speech is justified, in his articulation, also because Article 2 leads us to a passage in this measure. I would like to draw everyone's attention to the most contradictory aspect of the Government's proposal. In fact, what we want to do is introduce, because of the necessity of the administration of justice, the figures that compensate for the deficiencies found and now endemic in the staff. And, at the same time, you want to pilately wash your hands with respect to the future work of the subjects in question. And this is so true that the opinion will certainly be opposed to the amendments which provide for the cessation of any work by the honorary magistrates. The will is in fact exactly opposite, so much so that the preferential titles for the appointment as an honorary magistrate are more or less all related to the functions exercised within the court, since they are subjects that must guarantee to have a principal profession and to exercise the function of honorary judge as second job. Beyond the fact that I find it totally reprehensible that we should ask ourselves to do as a second job such a delicate profession as that of the judge, I also wonder how we can thus ensure that there is no conflict of interest. I therefore call on the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, to consider the amendment 2,302 in my own name, which at least excludes preferential titles for those who carry out or have carried out the profession of notary, because it really seems to me to be a demonstration of how little is relevant for the purposes of competence, participation and even the acquisition of experience. Moreover, we find this testified by the rapporteur's amendment, which was subsequently tabled, in which the position of Honorary Magistrate is considered a preferential title to enter the administration of the State. I believe that what is provided for in the measure is really a hoe at the feet of those who carry out or have carried out the profession of notary, also considering that it is notoriously a very well-paid job and, basically, the exercise of functions of a much more administrative nature than of study. I think it is very ungenerous towards young people who want to draw into the experience of the honorary judiciary to make them believe, or at least to promise that this will be for their training and will become a preferential title. In conclusion, I reiterate my request to remove the provision of preferential titles for the appointment of an honorary magistrate in favour of those who carry out or have carried out the profession of notary.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u46	Madam President, I announce the withdrawal of my signature from Amendments 2.24 and 2.27. I take this opportunity to remind the fiery Senator Caliendo that preventing the honorary magistrates from doing other work means distorting his function. In fact, it is precisely in the nature of the honorary magistrate that the function is carried out in addition to a different occupation. Predicting the exclusivity of the function would compromise its nature, being able to determine the emergence of legitimate expectations of having the relationship transformed, which is precisely of an honorary nature and a fixed time, into something different. In this sense, it is not right to create legitimate expectations for these gentlemen who are giving much to the justice system. On the other hand, Senator Caliendo will remember that in the past the figure of honorary judge, whom I held at the age of twenty-eight, was not even paid so much was honorable. If a function has an honorary character, it cannot be expected that it should be the exclusive and only work activity of the person called to such a delicate function. For these reasons I withdraw my signature from the two amendments and then, in the course of the work, I will speak on the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u47	Madam President, I come from Senator Falanga's remarks a few seconds ago to say that his reasoning is right for the future scenario. When we hypothesize only two four-year-olds or eight years - as Senator Caliendo said before - for those who make a choice projected into the future can make sense. In Amendment 2.321, similar to Amendment 2. Amendment No 311 (text 2)/6 by Mr Buccarella, I have tried to raise the problem of those who already perform these functions. There it cannot be said that it is the case or the organizational model that recalled the first Senator Falanga for those who did the honorary vice-priest thirty years ago because, in the meantime, the function has been used differently. There have been continuous renewals and, therefore, those who have been the judge of peace in the last twenty years and the honorary magistrate in the last twenty years has practically changed his working life or has distorted his habits also with regard to the organization of a possible second job. Aging was born with respect to a prevalent or exclusive activity. And Amendments 2,321 and 2. 311 (text 2)/6 of Senator Buccarella I think they pose the problem of meeting the legitimate expectations of those who must be accompanied at the end of a work path without network up to now - I am referring at least to the social security and contributory one - which certainly has not allowed the vast majority of these justice workers to be able to enrich themselves, but to the maximum of being able to make a great contribution in qualitative and quantitative terms, without which the current administration of justice cannot go forward if we, for absurd, tomorrow morning were to renounce their contribution and professional contribution. Other amendments tabled by our Group at my signature relate to a very general criterion, in our opinion, that of less complexity, with regard to investigation and decision-making, compared to certain cases entrusted to the honorary magistrates. I believe that this criterion is really very random and generic and, therefore, the amendments try to remedy this type of competence by anchoring more objective criteria. That is the point of Amendments Nos 2,315 et seq. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u48	Madam President, Amendments 2,154 and 2,152 concern the issue of condominium. They are requests that come from the construction associations who ask to exclude from the competences of the peace judges those inherent in the condominium matter, being extremely complex. We risk creating unreliable and inconstant jurisprudence by increasing the uncertainties of the sector. In addition to the exclusion of condominium matters from the competence of these judges, there is a proposal to limit the amount, to place at least a limit on the amount of these cases, which seems to be a more appropriate solution. There are several of them in this sense and there is therefore no need to mention what they are. I would then like to subscribe to sub-amendment 2.311 (text 2)/4, first signed by Senator Caliendo, which I briefly outline. It is proposed to delete point (i) of paragraph 13 of the rapporteur's amendment, which incongruly introduces into the delegation the establishment of a form of pension compatible with the honorary nature of the assignment, without charge for public finance, providing for the acquisition of the necessary resources through accident measures on the allowance. Basically, it is said to be assured privately, but I do not think it is necessary to write it in the norm and, indeed, there may be some situation where there is no interest in doing so by the parties involved. On the contrary, we are simply in danger of unduly helping private insurance - although we have nothing against them - by forcing people who do not feel and do not actually need to adhere to some form of supplementary pension and, moreover, by tightening up this type of pension with general rules. We do not really feel the need for further rules, especially when they are manifestly useless, as in this case. That is why we propose to delete this letter from Amendment 2.311 (text 2). PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u49	I am in favour of amendments 2,303 (text 2), 2,24, 2,701 (correct text), 2,700, 2,311 (text 2) and 2,320 (text 2). On Amendment 2.229 I am in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted. In paragraph 17, after letter d), insert the following: " d-bis) provide that for the facts committed before the date of entry into force of the provisions of the legislative decree or of the last of the legislative decrees issued in implementation of the delegation referred to in Article 1 continue to apply, if more favorable, the provisions on disciplinary offences in force on that date" PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask you, please, to hand over the text of the reformulation. CUCCA, rapporteur. Yes, Madam President. The opinion opposed the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u50	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur, except for amendment 2.224, for which the Government refers to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u53	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, I did not understand the opinion on sub-amendments 2,320 (text 2/2, 2,320 (text 2)/3 and 2,320 (text 2)/4). I did not understand whether the rapporteur's opinion was in favour or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u54	They were all against it. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 2.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. STEFANI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. STEFANI (LN-Aut). I'm gonna drop it, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that, Senator Stefani. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senators Cappelletti and Buccarella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,300, tabled by Senators De Cristofaro and Petraglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,301, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2302 tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.303 (text 2/1), tabled by Senator Caliendo. (The vote was followed). [[Senator Caliendo points out that he wants to intervene]] I shall cancel the vote. Excuse me, Senator Caliendo, I didn't see you. I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u55	The amendment has now been voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u56	Make your explanation of vote, Senator. I canceled the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u57	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the representative of the Government and the rapporteur probably do not want to understand that there is an attempt to amend a rule, drawn up together in 2013, which introduces absolute priority criteria for those employed in internship activities in courts and judicial offices, for the appointment of an honorary judge. Do you realize that this is not managed through competitions? [[Applause from the FI-PdL XII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u58	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.303 (text 2/1), tabled by Senator Caliendo. [[Comments of Senator Caliendo]] . (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.303 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u61	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to remind the House and the senators that on more than one occasion this problem was put to the attention of the Senate and on all occasions when this problem was put the vote of the Senate was opposed. In fact, it would be desirable for those who become members of the trial office, the judge's office, without any transparency criteria outside the degree grade, regardless of the university in which that degree grade was obtained, to have basically preferential qualifications. It has been said in the past that those who enter the trial office can do the contest directly in the judiciary, without being lawyers, without specialization school, without PhD and everything else and this request you have rejected. It was said later, in another measure, that those who work in the trial office, in case they win the competition in the judiciary, could have an additional score in ranking compared to the other contest winners; which is essentially to predict the creation of a path absolutely privileged towards subjects who, as I said before, enter without criteria of transparency and who often, as Senator Caliendo said earlier, owe their entry to relationships of a friendly nature. With this amendment the rapporteur says that those who come from the trial office have absolute priority over the other categories, which also have a certain kind of priority. The question I would like to ask you is: if a person who has been a member of the trial office has been rejected on the examination of a lawyer, has been rejected on the PhD, has not obtained a university degree, has he been rejected in the contest by notary, from the point of view of merit is it preferable to those who are already a lawyer, research doctor, researcher or notary? The rule, as it had been written in the Commission, provided that a relative preference vis-à-vis those persons, like those who have the title of lawyer, notary or other title, may be sufficient. I really cannot understand the reason why these subjects must prevail in an absolute way over others who, through their curriculum (already lawyers, former research doctors, already university researchers, already notaries), have demonstrated, through public competitions and, therefore, essentially through transparency criteria, that they have an absolutely superior preparation than those who have just done the internship at the office of the trial and, hypothetically, have been rejected to the examination of lawyer or notary, have not obtained the PhD or university researcher. That is why we shall vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u64	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, I would like to invite Senator Cucca to put aside his amendment. You see, Madam President, I don't know if Senator Cucca knows what the duties of a young intern in the judicial office are. I think Senator Cucca doesn't know, precisely because he attributes a preferential title to them over a person who has been in the profession for twenty years. Therefore, we do not understand why a young man who, with a system that is certainly not transparent, as Senator Palma said, does an internship in the judicial office, must take precedence over other professionals, who may have been engaged in professional activity for years. It seems to me that, at least, Senator Cucca must reflect because if, in one verse, favours these young people, with his amendment mortifies so many professionalisms that operate within the framework of the justice system. It is for this reason that, if Senator Cucca ever feels that he does not withdraw amendment 2,303 (text 2), I think I can say, on behalf of my Group, that we will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u65	There is a representation of students and teachers from the Istituto Tecnico Economico (Economic Technical Institute) Macedonio Melloni in Parma, to whom we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u68	CUCCA, rapporteur. Madam President, in the text of amendment 2.303 (text 2) it is very clear that the training internship must be successfully completed. FALANGA (AL-A). What does that mean? CUCCA, rapporteur. The persons admitted to the training internship live alongside the magistrate in everyday life. They participate in the board rooms and carry out all that activity that is absolutely formative. The fear expressed that they do not have sufficient preparation, given that the amendment provides that they must have successfully completed the training course, I do not think it should exist.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u71	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, we support the same demands made by other Members. It may be necessary for those who make the laws to live the realities they want to tell themselves. I understand what the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, says when he talks theoretically about what the training internship is, how it should be done and how participants are chosen, but who in reality has a concrete experience, not only in the judicial offices, knows that the honorary judiciary - and someone who has been a magistrate knows well - began with discretionary choices: the first one who presented himself to the prosecutor became an honorary deputy prosecutor. I was in the office that made those kind of evaluations: we had few requests, there were no calls and following the requests they became directly deputy Honorary Prosecutors (VPOs) or Honorary Judges. That was the reality and today we would have the same situation. We tried to prevent this degeneration from continuing, introducing a series of competitions with titles and other elements, which in turn turned out to be cocky and in any case with flaws, in addition to the extensions that arrived because the competitions never took place (but this is another issue). As for absolute priority, I agree that it is possible to change in terms of relative priority, i.e. equal... [[Comments of Senator Caliendo]] Senator Caliendo, I'm saying the same things you say, so let me continue without interrupting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u72	Senator Caliendo, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u73	Senator Crimes, continue your intervention. CRIMI (M5S). I was talking about the concept of relative priority: with equality of merit and qualifications, it is clear that an additional training course - in that case even without the positive outcome, because we are talking about equality - can constitute a preferential title. But it is clear that we cannot define absolute priority, because it would really mean creating a privileged channel in which - let us be clear - children and relatives of magistrates we would find them honorary magistrates. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator De Petris]] What other measures try to avoid by pretending to hit the castes, in this case it does not happen because it wants to create a new one, by bypassing the selection mechanisms. That is why we shall vote against it. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u76	MUSSINI (Mixed). Madam President, we must start to make some clarity, because we always fill our mouths with the word'merit', but then we arrive at a situation like this, which clearly took the hand because over time the honorary judiciary has become more and more necessary. Since it was not culturally admitted that the mechanisms of justice were overloaded, that there was a need for more recruitment, more personal or more support, the process went out of control. Therefore, that we go to intervene without having clearly what can be all the mechanisms of verification, of enlistment, of titles and anything else, becomes a contradiction with what we like so much to fill our mouths with, that is that here we want to reward the merit. In fact here you want to reward merit only when it costs nothing. When it starts to cost, we forget about the verification of merit, qualities and so on. Madam President, I would say that this position, which has been dealt with in the Senate on several occasions, bearing in mind this point, is unacceptable for it to be proposed. [[Senator Fucksia points out that she wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u77	Senator Fucksia, as you know, representatives of the Mixed Group have already spoken. Anyway, after that, I'll give you a minute to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u80	TORRISI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I am speaking because I cannot understand the objective reasons why, in the text formulated and proposed by the rapporteur, a privileged path is being built over other important professionalities - I am thinking of those who have the title of lawyer or notary - in favour of those who have done only one internship and may not have passed the examination of lawyer or notary in terms of professionalism, so it could have been rejected, as has already been said. Therefore, it would seem more appropriate to me to recognize a path to those who have done this type of activity, but putting it on equal footing with those who have passed the examination of lawyer or notary. Instead, this preference, which puts them in a privileged position, above those who have passed exams that have attributed to him a professionalism recognized by the institutions of the State, seems to me absurd in terms of the criterion of objectivity and fairness, incomprehensible in the eyes of those who frequent and have knowledge of the world of jurisdiction and law. So, personally, I am voting against this amendment for the reasons I have set out. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u83	Mr Bruni (CoR). Madam President, I too would like to take up the points made by my fellow Members so far, starting with Senator Nitto Palma. Reconnecting with what Senator Mussini said, it is true that here the criterion of merit is very random and is used as best suits or as best the Government believes, depending on the conveniences. What Senator Torrisi said just now I think is to be valued and taken into consideration. I would add, Senator Torrisi, to what you said earlier about lawyers and notaries who, quite rightly, as I have just said, research doctors and those who have attended specialization schools in procedural matters have been able to perfect themselves even better than can be done with a simple internship at the judicial offices. I believe that this amendment must be rejected - and I therefore announce our vote against - precisely because there is no concept of univocal merit, but this criterion of absolute preference is used in an absolutely unsatisfying way, which penalizes young people who will make important journeys in the post-graduate period, in favour of only some. I don't want to talk about friendly relationships or other possible easy entry into judicial offices, but there will certainly be privileged ones who will get a favorable treatment that cannot be shared.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u85	As I anticipated, Senator Fucksia, they have already spoken for the Mixed Group. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u86	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Madam President, unfortunately, the problem has not been tackled at the root, because it is unacceptable that a graduate in law, perhaps even with the smallest terms, with a degree taken very lightly, should judge an attorney with an experience of years or do the parts of a judge, having not exactly passed the examination as a lawyer or the competition as a magistrate. So, we can make all the adjustments we want, but we'll never get to a solution. Do you know what the result is? That the loss is not the honorary judges, but the citizens, because the lawsuits are incredibly longer [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] , because you go to cassation, because so justice gets clogged, so, in the end, what was to be a saving is not such and who less spends more spends. We have drawn up a draft law to resolve this long-standing problem. Let us now try to make an amendment - I am addressing the rapporteur - to correct this. But, excuse me, how many lawyers do you know, graduates with the highest grades, with a postgraduate curriculum, with masters and with experience, who do not work today and who have very low incomes? Why do I have to protect someone, because a lawyer has to be judged by someone who wouldn't even take it as a free collaborator in his own studio to make copies? And there are always amendments to protect the non-deserve. So this is my position. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and the Senators Bignami and Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u88	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u89	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, unlike my group, which will speak against, I shall abstain in the vote on this amendment. I explain a specific and non-instrumental reason. The rules in force give those who have done the internships the title of preference in general, while the amendment in question proposes to add absolute preference. Therefore, it would remain the title of preference, but not absolute, if this amendment were rejected, as I hope. To be honest, I hope that the rapporteur will withdraw the amendment, because he should have heard it: it is in fact several of the majority who feel the same way, but they do not speak hoping for a common sense attitude. Let's remember that, despite the name of an honorary judiciary, we are talking about a paid job with 2,000 euros per month, which, as Senator Fucksia has just said, are a mirage for many very qualified and very talented young people, who have studied in Italy or abroad, spending money and proving themselves much better than others. Do we want to introduce the criterion of meritocracy? It's a lot to talk about, for once. Let's apply it. I would remind you that, under existing legislation, there is a preference for those who have followed the internships, but not absolute, because they do not go ahead to people who are enormously more qualified. For these reasons, I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to withdraw this amendment, so that we can move on knowing that we have given the most worthy young people an opportunity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u92	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, those in the Commission who have had the opportunity to deepen this subject - I say this for all senators who have not had this opportunity - know the excellent level of the children of our country, given the quality of the selection that is upstream to access the judicial offices and to be able to carry out an internship. This is recognised, so much so that it has been accepted by all that such entities should enjoy a preferential title. I therefore reassure the House that we are not making an unmeritable choice, because my colleagues who have spoken - I am thinking of Senator Caliendo and President Palma - have recognised that these people must have a preferential title. These guys - the best - participate in internships at the judicial offices and acquire a professionalism they might not otherwise have. As the rapporteur has said, this internship puts them in a position to acquire an unprecedented judicial culture. They must also receive a positive final assessment, which sees them once again subject to attention and judgment. Ladies and gentlemen, as there is no interest on the part of my Group that goes beyond the qualification of the best of our talents (I urge our colleagues to maintain a cautious judgment on these talents when they go abroad), we welcome the wording that the rapporteur, in agreement with the Government, established in the Commission with regard to the preferential nature and not absolute title. This does not upset us, because these young people remain there to be appreciated and valued. (18.14) (Lumia followed). I would therefore ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to withdraw this amendment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u95	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. In his speech, Senator Lumia stated that the rapporteur, in agreement with the Government, tabled the amendment. Senator Lumia, the rapporteur, when submitting an amendment, must not agree with the Government. The agreement with the Government has nothing to do with it and, in my opinion, it would also be an incorrect activity for a rapporteur who, before tabling an amendment, agrees with the Government the quality and content of the amendment. Pay attention to what you say because you offend the rapporteur and the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u98	CUCCA, rapporteur. I repeat what I said earlier about the content of this amendment. In accepting the concerns expressed, which I do not in any way share, in order to avoid further problems, I withdraw amendment 2,303 (text 2). [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u99	We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.24.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u102	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall withdraw the amendment, although I have had a favourable opinion. Having committed myself several times to the issues that concern the Regions under special statute, I recall that with President Silvius Magnago we have made a series of interventions to avoid that in every law we should repeat ourselves. The senators of that area tell me that the legislation we introduce, as formulated in Article 7 of this amended draft law in the Commission, would be sufficient in order not to create problems in relation to the rules of the Special Statute that not only provide for the appointment by the presidents for the Friuli-Venezia Giulia and Val d'Aosta Regions but also for the Province of Bolzano, a series of special provisions concerning the honorary judges and their appointment requirements that do not fall within the general delegation. For this reason, because I am told that the solution we found in the Commission meets the need we had to aim for, and I withdraw the amendment. They gave me a favourable opinion to please me. Since I was given 16 favourable opinions in the Commission, it always seemed ugly in this House to say no.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u105	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am only speaking to explain the substance of the matter. There is no problem with that. The text of the amendment Caliendo is a reproduction of the current implementing rule. I am referring to Law No 267 of 1992. The point is that one cannot intervene with a standard of ordinary rank to modify or only repeat the content of a provision of a rule implementing the Statute. It is a problem of relation between sources. On this there was also a contrary opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It's not a matter of merit. It is clear that, as a rule of great reform, implementing legislation must still be amended. It is therefore an amendment that makes little sense from a point of view of the relationship between sources. Nothing to say about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u106	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.26, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.27.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u109	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask the rapporteur and the Government whether it is possible to write in that delegation that the internship should be done. Shouldn't it be said that the manner in which they are to be determined by the Minister? Let us at least specify the duration of the internship. Personally, I have proposed a six-monthly period. Do you prefer a quarterly period or do you want a different rewording? I agree, but if it doesn't say how long the internship lasts, there is a violation of the Constitution, because the law delegates thus becomes a blank rule, without content compared to the necessary period of internship. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u110	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.27, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 2.28 and 2.29 are impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.45, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.49, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,57, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.701 (correct text)/1, tabled by Senator Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,701 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u113	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I note that the Government and the rapporteur have completely changed their perspective in relation to all that has been the two-year debate. I note this: I can also share it, if you like, but I am abstaining, because it becomes ridiculous that after weeks and months we suddenly change our minds. The Ministry's offices probably decided that it was necessary to take into account what was part of my 2011 proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u114	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2,701 (correct text), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u117	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I made a mistake in my previous vote: my intention was to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u118	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.61, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,700/1 is inadmissible as it is not modifiable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u121	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I withdraw it and turn it into an agenda which, when issuing the implementing decrees, commits the Government not to determine different compensations for the criminal activities of the peace court on the basis of the outcome of the proceedings. That is, I ask that the Government, when issuing the implementing decrees, do not provide for two different allowances, whether the judge of peace sends the defendant (the suspect at that time) to trial, or that he takes a discharge order. It's a commitment I'm asking the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u122	Since the amendment is inadmissible, the procedure cannot be carried out, so it cannot be transformed. [[Comments of Senator Falanga]] I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,700, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.63, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u125	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, if I withdraw the amendment, you must explain to me how you can declare its inadmissibility. If I have withdrawn it, you cannot declare it inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u126	It had previously been declared inadmissible. FALANGA (AL-A). If I withdraw it first... We don't do a chronometer race. It was declared inadmissible for reasons of substance. Take note of that. FALANGA (AL-A). I understand, Mr President, but if I withdraw it before you declare it inadmissible, you can no longer make that statement. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Now we will see at the moviola if this has been done in the regular times: I hope so. We have declared it inadmissible, and if we have to check the timing, we will do so. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli.]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,58, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.66, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,67 tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario, identical to Amendment 2,68, tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,71.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u129	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, after we voted on the rapporteur's amendment 2,700, on which I abstained and did not vote because it was my text, I have a question. I do not know if you realize that, if you do not add to Amendment 2,71, the following will happen: an honorary magistrate for the first two years (according to the rapporteur's amendment) will have a lower allowance and will only perform functions - so to speak - in a dependent position, i.e. according to the instructions of an ordinary magistrate; after those two years, he will acquire judicial functions. Suddenly, therefore, it can happen also for reasons of non-acceptance of some decision of the honorary judge, it is again moved to the office of the trial, where it returns to the addictions and loses ownership of the judicial function. Not only that, he regresses to a lower allowance after having carried out the activity and this for no professional or disciplinary reason. Then, if actual service requirements exceptionally involve, according to a shift criterion, taking the honorary judges of the next two-year olds and taking them again to carry out the office of formers, at least they do not last more than six months. There is already a sacrifice, which is at least limited in time. Does that mean three months? But leaving it to absolute discretion, I do not think it is worthy of Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u130	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.71, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.72, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.76, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.81, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.91 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 2,701 (correct text). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 2,304 is impervious. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.102, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario, which is essentially the same as Amendment 2.305 tabled by Senator Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,306.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u131	Mr President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u132	I take note of that. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u135	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I ask that I be able to sign this amendment, which I think is very important. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u138	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am sorry, but the Rules of Procedure provide that the ballots of the senators who are not present during the votes should be extracted. That's according to Senate rules and not Senator Santangelo's. I see dozens of them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask the Secretary Senators to proceed with the verification and to help the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u141	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I also support this amendment. We must realize that there are people who have given a lot in recent years without having any recognition for the judicial activity that has been possible thanks to their contribution. In this text it is said that every four years they will be evaluated and that, therefore, they must be confirmed, except as a judgment of demerit; therefore they will not be confirmed until the seventieth year. That is why I ask you to accept Amendment 2.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u144	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to Amendment 2.15. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of the subscriptions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u147	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, on a point of order. I agree with what Senator Santangelo said, but I would like to go further. In the matter of cards the problem is not the cards. I understand someone saying, maybe I'll just leave the card there and walk away for a second. But the problem is that the card introduced involves accounting for administrative purposes. This is the issue that has been raised and which the President of the Fat Senate rightly pointed out. That is why it would be enough to change the Bureau's decision which provides for this and the problem would be solved: keep the cards in there and no one will come to question the presence of the card anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It's a very simple thing and we would have solved the problem at the root. But maybe you don't want to solve the problem at the root. Let's be serious. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Cardinals and Borioli Senators]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u148	Please, let's start picking up the cards, as has been established.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u151	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that there is an increasing need for clarification in order to prevent this theater from returning all the time, not least because I have been told by the offices - and I say this for my colleagues - that the card entered, for administrative purposes, has meaning and meaning at the time of verification of the quorum for which there may be a presence, but not participation in the vote that is considered for administrative purposes. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Instead, the presence of the card during a qualified vote by electronic voting, but in the absence of the expression of the vote has no administrative effect. For administrative purposes, participation in at least one third of the votes actually cast during the day is necessary. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Caliendo. Senator Crimi's comments.]] It is simply a matter of reading the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore ask the President, at the next sitting, to clarify this point definitively, so that we do not fall into such a trivial misunderstanding. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u152	The President has already spoken, but he will consider this request if he wants to go back to it. [[Comments of Senators Calderoli and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u155	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, the signatures of other political groups, which we have accepted, have taken over on Amendment 2.15. Let us remember that this is a so-called 'exodised' rule. I would like to make a brief comment on the subject of the real or presumed cards and privileges of the caste of Members of Parliament. If the vitality, the one granted to Members under the conditions of its maturation, is indicated as compensation for reintegration into the working world, because according to some parliamentary work engages the professional, the trader and the mere citizen who, if he wants to play this role well, can do nothing else and therefore is recognized, wrongly or rightly - now we avoid going into the substance - the vitality, we should then be able to explain to these gentlemen who keep the machine of justice standing (the amendment refers to those who have a seniority of at least six years of service and therefore not to anyone) because we make them run the risk of remaining "exoded" when the annual or quadriennial renewals eligible could not accompany them until the retirement age. To these people, who have also sacrificed the liberal professions or public employment relations from which they may have fallen, why should we deny what is now called a reintegration allowance in the working world? I wanted to make this point together with the explanation of vote to invite the rest of the House to vote in favour of this amendment. As far as financial cover is concerned, the Government would have all the possibility, in case the problem were detected, to provide for it later. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that the entire Group of the 5 Star Movement subscribes to the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u158	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to make a very simple point: given the retirement age for the magistrates, if you can carry out the duties of magistrate because the 70th year of age means that the person has the skills to perform those functions, I wonder why the honorary judge should expect a different age from that of togati. Therefore, on the basis of this simple consideration I declare that I agree with Amendment 2,105 and I believe that my Group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u159	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.105, tabled by Senators Cappelletti and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,307 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.108, tabled by Senators Cappelletti and Buccarella, identical to amendment 2.308, tabled by Senators De Cristofaro and Petraglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.309 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.12 tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2,18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. STEFANI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.12, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario... (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u162	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking because you changed the number of the amendment during the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I got it straight, though. SANTANGELO (M5S). Yes, Mr President, but since you closed the vote quickly, I wanted to stress that for the 5 Star Movement, the vote on Amendment 2,18 is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u163	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.20 tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.21 tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.310, tabled by Senators De Cristofaro and Petraglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.311 (text 2)/1, tabled by Senator Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u166	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendments 2,311 and 2,320. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.311 (text 2/2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u169	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with this sub-amendment I call for the deletion of point (h) of amendment 2.311 (text 2). That letter provides that: • the organic allocation of the honorary magistrates, the tasks and activities assigned to them, the objectives set in accordance with point (f) of this subparagraph and the criteria for the settlement of the allowances shall be established in such a way as to ensure the compatibility of the honorary task with the performance of other work activities. Almost saying that they have to do a little part-time because we can't pay you. It is a completely useless sentence, it is only an offense to them, but in reality also to us who write something that has no preceptive content. I think it really is an insult to Parliament to write a rule that the allowance must be established in such a way as to take account of other work activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u172	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a correction. When I spoke about Amendment 2,311, perhaps you understood that I was referring to Senator Caliendo's amendment 2,311 (text 2)/3, while I was referring to Amendment 2,311 (text 2)/6, at the first signature of Senator Buccarella. The same applies to amendment 2,320 (text 2): I was referring to amendment 2,320 (text 2)/6.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u173	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.311 (text 2/2), tabled by Senator Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.311 (text 2)/3.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u174	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u176	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I believe that even those who have never entered a palace of justice know that judges cannot be given targets. Madam Undersecretary, the magistrates cannot be given orders. Predicting an objective, indicated in letters f), g) and h), means saying, no more or less, that the president of the court, or who for him, can tell an honorary magistrate something like this: you have to make ten sentences a month, fooling of your rights, the need to deepen and effectively interfering with the freedom of each judge. But I did not want to propose to delete the objectives: instead I wanted to opt for a criterion that is objective and does not affect the activity of the individual magistrate. Therefore, in amendment 2.311 (text 2)/3 I proposed to include the following words: "predict that the objectives referred to in points (f), (g) and (h) must be identified with reference to exceeding the average productivity of the magistrates of the office or of the section". There is a productivity index for the magistrates of an office or a section. If you exceed that index, you will be entitled to the variable part. So there is no evaluation of the individual magistrate who is given indications and directives that affect jurisdiction, but they are told: at the end of the year, if your index exceeds the average productivity index of the section or office, you are entitled to the variable part. Look, this is serious. To say that it can be assessed on the basis of the objectives means to reduce the judicial function to active administrative activities. I ask the rapporteur what the reason for this is. With my amendment, it is still possible to indicate the objectives, but at the same time it is possible to ensure that they are achieved through a system that can guarantee the allocation of the variable part. I would ask you, rapporteur and representative of the Government, not to be silent, to give some indication of an aspect which concerns the independence of judges. You have so many discussions about the Constitution and the principles of independence, but the independence - mind you - is not only the ordinary magistrate, but also the honorary magistrate. That is why I ask you to explain to me why a criterion that restores constitutional dignity to the text of the delegation cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u179	CUCCA, rapporteur. Mr President, this matter has been discussed in the Commission and has been dealt with in detail. It has been decided that it is not appropriate to lay down specific criteria in the delegation law to which to anchor the recognition of the variable component of the allowance, which the amendment I have tabled puts forward for a specific assessment by the Supreme Council of the judiciary; I refer to point (f) of amendment 2.311 (text 2), which I signed. This solution, which will be approved once the amendment, in fact mutuals the regulatory solutions already in force, provided for by the administrative process code, on the incentive of the productivity of the administrative magistrates, which refers to a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, to be adopted on a proposal from the President of the Board of the Administrative Justice, after a resolution of the same council, the task of adopting, within the limits of the funds available in the relative budget and actually unused, economic measures for the reduction of the backwardness and for the encouragement of productivity. So it is nothing new; it is a system that is borrowed from the administrative system and that is put back to a resolution of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, not intending to treat it in this delegation. That's the motivation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u180	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u181	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u182	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, let me say that I am abstaining to speak. I'd like to say something to Senator Cucca and Senator Caliendo. Senator Caliendo poses an important problem: if you do not specify the nature of the objectives that are indicated to the honorary magistrate, you run the risk that these objectives may somehow attain to the specific activity of the magistrate. So I believe that Senator Caliendo's amendment, which provides for the inclusion of an additional letter from the rapporteur's text, can also be reworded to provide that the objectives set out in points (f), (g) and (h) do not comply with the specific activities of the honorary magistrate. The second point I want to bring to the attention of the rapporteur is that, when objectives are put to the honorary judiciary, the step towards putting them to the ordinary judiciary or to the administrative judiciary becomes extremely simple, with the high risk of affecting the autonomy and independence of the judiciary. MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Get over there! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). You see, one thing is to say that the goal is to reduce the load to certain acceptable limits; what is different is to set a goal that requires, in order to be achieved, an office activity absolutely insufficient for the service that must be rendered. That is why I think that if Senator Caliendo hypothesizedly wanted to reformulate his amendment, saying that the objectives do not concern the specific activity of the magistrate, the rapporteur could change his opinion in this respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u183	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u185	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the adoption of the measure under consideration, during the initial period during which the Honorary Judge is engaged in the office of the trial he will not be able to engage in judicial activities, or he will only be able to do so in certain cases, on the indication of the professional judge. In so doing, you are violating Article 101, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, which reads as follows: The courts are subject only to the law of the Court of Justice. With the provision under consideration we are predicting that the judge will have to decide beyond the law, on the basis of what the judge touted suggests to him. I repeat a question already put in the general discussion: if the judge does not comply with the provision given to him by the Judge to whom he is addressed, what is the purpose of the judgment? Is it valid, nothing or anything? You have already foreseen this, which seriously compromises the autonomy and independence of the judge. The rapporteur, Senator Cucca, now draws on a provision which gives the Supreme Council of the judiciary the task of defining objectives in general. However, the Supreme Council of the judiciary sets out, in general terms, the objectives it then gives to the Italian judiciary. In this case, instead, we are trying to ensure that the judge, who already has to submit in the initial period, or follow the suggestions of another magistrate, must also have goals to achieve, that Senator Caliendo, with the amendment presented, tries to ensure that they do not stick to the specific activity of the magistrate. To reject this amendment means to start undermining the solid and fertile ground of the autonomy and independence of the judiciary. If you want to do this, know that we do not intend to do so and that we want to protect and protect the sacred constitutional principles of the autonomy and independence of the judge. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of this amendment by Senator Caliendo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u186	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u188	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to announce that we will be voting in favour of this amendment. I would like to make a brief comment. I feel like I'm watching the play of the absurd, because we're really in a comedy situation. Today we hear Forza Italia loudly defending the independence of the judiciary in the face of the attempt from the left, to harness it according to definitive objectives, after years and legislatures in which, inverse parts, the opposite happened. We're really at the comedy of the absurd. To find myself today sharing the statements of those who, until recently, did everything to gag and harness justice seems almost ridiculous to me. Unfortunately - I repeat - I find myself in the situation of having to share these statements, because - unfortunately - every time we have reasoned on the judiciary for numerical objectives, it has resulted in a deterioration of qualitative objectives and results. On the qualitative objectives perhaps a deepening should be done, which is hardly done in the areas envisaged and, that is, in the areas of judicial councils, evaluations of the progression in career of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, evaluations for the conferral of the management offices, which instead are evaluated only on the basis of political belongings. Where it would take an effective evaluation is not done and we move forward for numerical objectives, forgetting that the activity of the magistrate should be of the highest quality, which unfortunately does not happen today because the quality is not evaluated. Even the assessments you have tried to incorporate into various laws in the past have proved to be mere mathematical exercises to give career progressions automatically to all magistrates. I have never seen a magistrate standing on the pole because someone told him that he had not been able to do the magistrate properly, which instead it would be appropriate to do. This applies to the ordinary and honorary judiciary.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u189	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u191	CUCCA, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to ask for the amendment's provision for a better assessment of the outcome of Senator Palma's proposal for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u192	I have the provision for amendment 2.311 (text 2)/3. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.311 (text 2)/4.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u193	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u195	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the amendment contains an invitation to delete point (i) which I want to read. Every time I read it, I tell myself there's no way you're gonna want to do that. To identify and regulate a social security and welfare scheme compatible with the honorary nature of the assignment, without charges for public finance, providing for the acquisition of the necessary resources through accident measures on the allowance. We are talking about the next honorary judges who, according to the rapporteur's amendment, last eight years. Those are minimal things. Is it a kind of private insurance and you need a rule that says that if we find a system we allow it to you? It's ridiculous to do something like this. Even when I was Undersecretary I was unable to identify figurative contributions for those registered in the forensic register, figurative contributions for those registered in the INPS and we are going to tell him today that we give him the opportunity to create a pension with the compensation money, which for many of them - we know - does not exceed 95 euros per day and only for the days on which they perform the function? You know better than I do that they cannot exceed 1,300-1,500 euros net, when they manage to do great things and working full time. And we're gonna go tell him we're gonna give him a chance to get private insurance? What's the need to say that? Please delete point (i) because a Parliament cannot reach these subterfugees. Either we were in a position to solve the problem by guaranteeing assistance and social security or it is better not to write anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u198	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I believe that with the part of the rapporteur's amendment which provides for the regulation of a social security and welfare scheme compatible with the honorary nature of the task, free of charge for public finances, providing for the acquisition of resources through accident measures on the allowance, the ridicule is achieved. In fact, it is said that the honorary judge can take out a policy. You enter the private of the person, who is said to have a social security policy, free of charge from the State. I wonder what the point of this prediction is. The deletion requested by Senator Caliendo's amendment is logical. Let us therefore avoid being ridiculous towards a professional category, by ensuring that everyone, within the framework of his own choices, goes to regulate his own social security according to his own economic abilities and preferences. Therefore, the removal of this provision seems wise to me and, therefore, we shall be voting in favour of the sub-amendment tabled by Senator Caliendo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u199	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.311 (text 2)/4, tabled by Senators Caliendo and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2.311 (text 2)/5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u200	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u201	Senator Caliendo, do you insist on voting? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not want to insist on the vote, but I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u202	Senator Caliendo, since the amendment is impervious, it is necessary to request support under Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure. If there's no support, what's he talking about? Of course, if you wish, you can talk, Senator Caliendo. Of course, we are in Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u203	Mr President, I do not insist on voting on the amendment, because if the Budget Committee considers that an amendment cannot be declared impossible under Article 81 of the Constitution, which in fact says that the Renzi Government can do whatever it wants, but it is recommended that, in creating new allowances, the sum of the fixed part and the variable part should not be less than that paid today to the deputy prosecutors, the honorary judges of the courts and the judges of peace. That is the content of the amendment. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. I have only asked for the amount not to be determined to a lesser extent than today. It seems to me that there can be no room for improcability under Rule 81; if it is only to be declared in order not to vote on the amendment, then I do not even ask for it to be put to the vote: do you!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u206	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are asking for the vote on Amendment 2,311 (text 2)/5.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u207	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.311 (text 2)/5, tabled by Senator Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Caliendo predicted it, actually. We move on to amendment 2.311 (text 2)/6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u208	Mr President, we are asking for it to be voted on unless the rapporteur and the representative of the Government consider it appropriate to put the amendment aside. [[Senator Cucca's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u209	The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to proceed with the provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u210	This could have left the hope of an assessment, of an agenda that touched on at least some of the points indicated in the amendment: you see that the amendment consists of three separate points, aimed at giving that kind of protection, which we consider to be minimal, to the honorary magistrates. Moreover, in connection with the last vote and the statements of Senator Caliendo, it should be remembered that, in the matter of compensation to the honorary judiciary and the judges of peace, the law of stability passed a few months ago established cuts in the budget items of the State with respect to the compensation item for 6.2 million - as I recall - in 2016 and for more than 7 million euros for 2017. I therefore find it difficult to digest leaving in the text of the draft law under consideration this which seems to be an affront to these workers, who are told: Dear Gentlemen, we do not want your social security cover, we cannot give it to you, so pay it to you with the allowances that the majority and the Government have also cut. Therefore, since there is no willingness and willingness on the part of the Government and the rapporteur to consider this amendment to some extent, possibly even for separate parties, I have to insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u213	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, I understood that there was a willingness to table an agenda and I believe that once we have written this report, we can consider it positively. Of course, I would point out that, when an amendment of this kind is tabled, the search for cover is a sign of seriousness compared to the expectations that are created with those concerned, as Senator Buccarella knows. Since this cover has not even been mentioned, I ask Senator Buccarella to withdraw it and choose the way of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u214	I appreciate Senator Lumia's speech, but the rapporteur is Senator Cucca and I would like to know what he thinks of the agenda. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Senator Cucca, you are the rapporteur. That's how it works here.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u215	Mr President, we cannot make an assessment, since Senator Buccarella spoke of an agenda on some part of the amendment. Without having the agenda text, I do not feel that I should present it. [[Applause from Senators Sibilia and Russo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u216	Senator Buccarella, make a decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u217	Mr President, first of all I would remind the House that the deadline for tabling amendments was granted on yesterday's day and in horas, with a deadline which expired yesterday at 8 p.m.; therefore, obviously, the possibility that we have all had oppositions to make perfectly articulated sub-amendments, even from the point of view of coverage, must be considered with the obvious tolerance of the lack of time that has been given to us. In addition, by replying to Senator Cucca who would not know how to express himself on a possible reformulated text as an agenda, it is certainly not necessary to invoke large intellectual commitments, since by now the formula we know very well, that is the one for which the Government is committed to assessing the appropriateness of the matter; after which the three points referred to in the letters i-bis, i-ter) and i-quater) contained in the amendment 2,311 (text 2)/6 are inserted. If there is a willingness of the rapporteur and the Government, I would like to give up my insistence on voting and turn it into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cucca said he was against it. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Senator Cucca said he didn't know the text of the agenda. I also regret that I did not have time to coordinate with colleagues, which, as they know, we do as well. Time was really tyrant and it wasn't possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cucca, finally, if you're against, let's move on. CUCCA, rapporteur. Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u218	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u220	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, the rapporteur has every right to be against this, but here we are talking about an agenda and the excuse of a lawyer who is a senator of the Republic and who has no time to look at the text of an amendment is shameful and that is unacceptable. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u221	No, Senator Airola, why do you say that? AIROLA (M5S). This is the way PD works! This is the way to work in this House, where you decide and everything that is proposed is deleted. You suck! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] You can't say that, Senator Airola. The amendment has been explained, it has been evaluated, several colleagues have spoken, Senator Cucca, former informed conscience, has reiterated his opposition. Now, Senator Buccarella, if you wish to insist on the vote, we must check whether the request is supported. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] I therefore ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Senator Airola, that was all too explicit. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,311 (text 2)/6, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,311 (text 2) to 2,314 of the main dossier remain in place at the rapporteur's request, since the rapporteur requested that Amendment 2,311 (text 2)/3 be discarded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,151 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.152.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u222	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u224	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, even after a speech with the rapporteur - and I would like Senator Cucca to follow me - I am convinced by the goodness of Amendments 2,152, 2,54, 2,156 and 2,157. With the first amendment we said that the jurisdiction of the honorary judges cannot be attributed to the condominium cases. All of you are aware of the difficulty of the condominium cases and the different decisions even of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation. The difficulty of the matter did not allow them to be attributed to the honorary judges and we are convinced of this. But we have also tabled amendments on the basis of which we could, if necessary, limit the award to the honorary judges only of cases with a value of less than EUR 10,000 or EUR 8,000. The rapporteur said that this second part could probably be considered. However, rapporteur, in my professional experience, I must tell you that I would even be of the opinion that we should remove condominium cases from the competence of the honorary judges, because they do present a certain difficulty. We are talking about citizens' rights. [[Comments of Senator Susta]] Senator Susta, I'm sorry to say: go and see any repertoire and read the judgments in United Chambers of the Court of Cassation. This means that there is also a section of jurisprudence and that the causes are not those that take place perhaps in Biella, dear Susta: there are condominium cases that have other problems. They can also be attributed to the honorary judge, but we have proposed an alternative: to limit their value. Instead, you want to give the honorary judges everything, because you probably do not give a thought, but vote according to sides. I have never done so; sometimes I voted for your amendments, even against my Group, as I think we should all do. But you probably don't even listen to what one says, because you follow the discipline of the Group. Based on what? On a logic that is outside the interests of the citizens. Reason and say that the Group must decide this way to follow the Government; but the Government has nothing to do with it! We need reforms that can give citizens certainty of their rights. You want to do it, you want to vote according to team orders: vote! [[Applause from Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u225	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u226	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u227	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, we are voting in favour of this amendment because Senator Caliendo has said one thing that we all know: it must be understood that the complexity of the condominium matter starts from the validity of the condominium resolution, which is an operation of analysis and attention by the extremely delicate judge, which also relates to profiles of administrative law. Therefore, gentlemen, the condominium matter is particularly delicate and Caliendo is right when he says that if we look at the repertoire we find committed the united sections of the cassazione to decide on condominium matters. Let us free the honorary magistrates from a task, so difficult and tiring, of deciding on causes of a condominium nature. That is why we are voting in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u228	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u229	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u230	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, even in order to vary a little on this subject, I would ask that Amendment 2.152 be put to the vote separately and that the first part of the amendment be put to the vote, until the words 'causes' and 'causes' are put to the vote, and that the remainder be followed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u231	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u232	You have the floor, Senator Arrigoni, but I remind you that Senator Candiani has just spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u233	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I personally do not agree with Mr Candiani's proposal because the two separate parts of Amendment 2.152 would lose their meaning. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u234	We must then put to the vote the proposal to vote on amendment 2,152 for separate parts.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u235	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u236	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u237	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, disappointed by Mr Arrigoni's disagreement, I call for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u238	. Nemo propheta at home, Senator Candiani. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1738, 548, 630, 1056, 1202, 1292 and 1798 president. I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on Amendment 2,152, tabled by Senator Candiani. It's not approved. Arrigoni won, even in a clear way. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Counterproof, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Calderoli, there's no need for counterproof. Don't humiliate Senator Candiani. [[Laughter]] I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,152, tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.154.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u239	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u240	Calm down, we're here to talk as well as vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u241	You have it, Senator Caliendo. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since I am convinced that many people have not read what is written in the amendment, I wanted to make an explanation of vote. Amendment 2.154 retains the competence of the honorary judges for all cases of voluntary jurisdiction in condominium matters; it removes only litigation cases. Realize that the jurisdiction of the Honorary Judge remains the whole matter of voluntary jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u242	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,154, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2,156, tabled by Senator Malan, until the words "ad euro" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 2,157 to 2,161 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,315 tabled by Senator Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,164, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,316 tabled by Senator Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,166 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,169, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario, identical to amendment 2,317, tabled by Senator Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,171 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,172, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario, until the words "euro" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 2,173 and 2,174 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,176, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,178, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,179, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,182, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,183, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario, up to the word "processes". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 2.184, 2.186 and 2.187 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,185 tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,318, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,318, tabled by Senators De Cristofaro and Petraglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.319 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.20 (text 2)/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u243	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u244	It is right that you should intervene, colleagues. Some have not followed the reform of the legal order in the previous legislature and do not know what we lived.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u245	[[Laughter]] You have the right to intervene, Senator Caliendo. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since I already know that my amendment will be rejected, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that you are voting on a rule according to which the honorary magistrate, who will be confirmed for four years and who will therefore have acquired a capacity and preparation to perform the judicial function superior to the others, for the last four years he will have to return to perform his duties exclusively in the office for the trial, under the control of an ordinary judge (read the text of the amendment, before voting on it), and only exceptionally the Supreme Council of the judiciary will be able to authorize him to perform the judicial functions. Realize that you are voting for an abnormal thing, out of any logic. To a person who has acquired the highest level of professionalism say: Get in the back. I think it's something that doesn't exist so much in private companies as in public administration. Then come and say that you want to reform the public administration of merit, when then in this case you take the credit away from one part and say: "In principle we want to do so, so that maybe it goes away.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u246	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u247	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u248	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is the purpose of organizing the honorary judiciary? To somehow compensate for the deficiency of our justice system. We create this figure to reduce the burden of justice, but then in the fourth four years we say: You are not allowed to perform any more judicial functions. Senator Caliendo emphasized the subjective profile of the offense that is rendered to those who, after a long period of activity, are practically told in the last phase: You don't have to do any more judicial work, but you just have to make up for what the professional court of the trial office will tell you. But I see the matter from another angle. Do you not think that we have figures that are not useful in the end, are they not helpful in achieving the objective that we want to achieve with the honorary judiciary? Then I invite you to think carefully. In these two different respects you should share Senator Caliendo's amendment, if you were wise. We are and we share it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u249	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,320 (text 2)/1, tabled by Senators Caliendo and Ceroni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 2,320 (text 2/2, 2,320 (text 2/3, 2,320 (text 2)/4) are impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,320 (text 2)/5, tabled by Senators Caliendo and Ceroni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,320 (text 2)/6, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2,320 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,321 to 2,210 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.215, which is essentially the same as Amendment No 2.214.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u250	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u251	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u252	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to make one point. A short time ago Senator Caliendo spoke in an explanation of vote on his sub-amendment, telling us about the fourth four years and confirmations. In fact the amendment to the vote - I say this to Senator Caliendo because I think there was a misunderstanding - was the one on the suppression of words: "as well as the Councils of the Bar Association," which was a very important issue. Today we would find ourselves, in fact, with this legislation, that the order of lawyers will express the opinion on the exercise of the activities of the magistrates for their confirmation and appointment. Is that what we're talking about? So the Judicial Council, which has its own special and autonomous section in which the honorary judges, the barristers' order and university professors are already represented, must seek the opinion of the President of the court and the prosecutor, rightly for the judge, and then ask the President of the Council of the barristers' order in whose district the honorary judge has exercised his duties? in which he exercised the honorary judiciary? I mean, will the lawyer have to say if he was a good magistrate and if he did his job well? Is that the logic? Okay, the important thing is that you have a good conscience about what this means for the independence of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u253	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.215, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 2.214, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.217, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.322 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.219, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.221, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.222 and 2.224 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.226, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.227, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.228, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.229, in the reworded text, is set aside pending the opinion of the 5th Commission. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 2.235 and 2.323 are impervious.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u254	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u255	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u256	CUCCA, rapporteur. Mr President, I propose the following rewording of sub-amendment 2.311 (text 2)/3 of Senator Caliendo: In Amendment 2,311 (text 2), after point (h), insert the following: "h-bis) provide that the objectives referred to in points (f), (g) and (h) are identified taking into account the average productivity of the magistrates of the office or section."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u257	Senator Caliendo, do you accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteur? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, the revised text of amendment 2.311 (text 2)/3 will have to be forwarded for the opinion to the 5th Commission, together with amendment 2.229 (text 2) at the first signature of Senator Stefani. I call on President Tonini to ensure that the 5th Commission assesses these amendments as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u258	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u259	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u260	TONINI (PD). Mr President, with regard to amendment 2.229 (text 2), it is quite clear to me that the opinion cannot but be of nothing to prevent, because it is clearly a rule of order, which does not involve expenditure. So if you think so, on the basis of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, you can give your opinion on this amendment at once. On the other hand, the sub-amendment 2.311 (text 2)/3 (text 2) needs to be examined more carefully.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u261	At this point, having received the favourable opinion of the Budget Commission, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.229 (text 2), tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] [[Senator Candiani points out that he wants to intervene.]] Let me say that, after many rejections, an amendment by Senator Stefani, signed by the entire Group of the North League, has finally been approved, which has joined the acquired result, Senator Candiani. [[Laughter.]] Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u262	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u263	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u264	ZANONI (PD). Mr President, senators and senators, yesterday in Switzerland Mrs Susanna Zambruno Martignetti, a strong woman who fought against multiple sclerosis for 25 years, closed her eyes forever. Mrs. Susanna decided to end her life and suffering in a voluntary way and to do so she had to leave her country, Italy, to go to Switzerland. Originally from Turin, she left a 25-year-old son, a husband who was always with her and a sister who wanted to be present at every moment. They didn't share Mrs. Susanna's wish, but they did. His disappearance casts a shadow on Italian legislation, which still does not allow citizens to leave their loved ones with dignity and courage, because a great courage served Susanna to make this gesture, away from her home and her city. Euthanasia is not a word that must be frightened, but a choice made in full consciousness when pain and suffering have the upper hand and mask the joys of life. On 1 March the Chamber of Deputies was assigned two draft laws to the Commissions 2nd and 12th meeting, which refer to the proposal already supported by citizens in 2013 for the legalization of procedures that I find indispensable in an open society of views. Our task, in fact, is to protect and respect the wills of those who choose a dignified death, without therapeutic aggression. Italy needs a law that regulates at least the end of life and, more courageously, also euthanasia and that allows people like Susanna Zambruno Martignetti to die at home, surrounded by affections and a family environment. I stress that this is also a problem of fairness, because those who have personal and family economic conditions that allow it can afford to go to Switzerland and spend more than 10,000 euros, while those who cannot afford it, as usual, cannot decide their own destiny. We must recognise the limitations of medicine and I conclude by asking everyone what are the reasons for preventing this important step in our legislation. I deeply respect all those who think that they will never resort to this possibility either for themselves or for their family members, but I ask the same respect for those who want to make a different choice, which is prevented from doing so. I believe that, by putting us in the shoes of those who suffer, we must courageously address the issue of euthanasia in order to ensure that people like Susanna are no longer forced to go abroad to put an end to their lives, without considering - I repeat - that a law would be a fair measure towards those who have no economic opportunity to go to Switzerland. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u265	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u266	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u267	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, today I am speaking to inform all of you of the situation that the workers of the former Indesit-Whirlpool are experiencing once again. We regret to break the story told by Whirpool through frequent press releases to tell you that the situation is quite different from how it is described. The company, in fact, having received with the last agreements a series of millionaire facilities and facilities, now has the need to show that everything is fine and flows in the right direction. We would be delighted if this were true, but it is not, because we in the 5 Star Movement do something that this Government has never done: to listen to the workers who tell us about an increasingly unsustainable situation in Casertano, but we do not exclude - indeed we have a strong concern - that the situation is identical in the other former Indesit factories. We have therefore decided to ask a question for more information from those institutional actors who have been and are directly involved in the implementation of the agreements and the industrial plan. It is well known to all that this Government is expert in making promises and then failing them, especially when it comes to the rights of citizens and workers and not powerful lobbyists or banks. For several months we have denounced, also in this House, the non-compliance with the 2013 agreement. Well, now we have to see that the commitments made with the agreement signed in July 2015 are not being met this time either. To date there are no investments, no transfers, no early retirements; no research services have been activated to support reindustrialization; no conversion work has begun at the Carinaro plant; no areas, land and property assets have been sold or rented on advantageous conditions; no retraining programmes have been activated. Finally, Mr President, for us, the framework agreement formalized on 24 July 2015 would be largely disregarded and we do not understand the future of the more than 800 workers in Carinaro, how many redundancies, early retirements, transfers and what the costs incurred by the Italian State are. Perhaps - and I say perhaps - it would be appropriate that the Government also cared about Italian workers as always does the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u268	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u269	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u270	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I believe that such sensitive matters as those raised at the end of the sitting (euthanasia, end-of-life, palliative care, therapy) cannot be developed in the Senate House from a specific case of a lady who has made a painful choice, but by introducing a debate that needs to be developed in the relevant forums. [[Comments from the PD Group]] , by setting limits and areas of the things we are discussing, which do not concern a single person, but phenomena such as, for example, those of Belgium, where there is an exponential multiplication of those who freely choose to take their lives or are induced by a certain type of system... [[Comments from the PD Group]] It is not just you in this Parliament; there are all of you in this Parliament. [[Comments of Senator Cardinals]] In this Parliament, if problems are raised, it is right to discuss them in a shared way between all political forces, without anticipating conclusions which must instead be deepened in a debate, given the delicacy of the matter. [[Comments from the PD Group]] President, I hope that there will be suitable places in the Commission and in the Assembly, in the House and in the Senate, to explore these issues which are absolutely sensitive and require further consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u271	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u272	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u273	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I raise an important issue. For a few weeks a campaign of mobilization of the National Coordination of researchers and researchers not structured for the recognition of research as work has been underway in many Italian universities. The initiative, known as the "Shift to the Reverse" initiative, arises as a result of the rejection by the Camera Budget Committee of the amendment extending the unemployment benefit (DIS-COLL) to researchers and precarious researchers. Too bad, because this was a promise that the government had made and on which it had also expressed a favourable opinion, but then it took it back. In fact, with this decision, the Government, contrary to the provisions of the European Charter of Researchers, refused to extend the right to receive the unemployment benefit provided for other parasubordinate workers. We're talking about an acquired right they should have. To respond to this umpteenth delegitimation of academic work, in the last few days, from 2 February, a "strikedown" was launched, that is, a white strike, during which researchers and unstructured researchers wear the red shirt, with the inscription "precary research," in the performance of all their activities, while structured colleagues and students support the initiative with a similar orange t-shirt. The objective is unemployment benefit for those who pay contributions and would like to have the rights that have been granted to other workers. We are talking about about about 60,000 precarious, among checkers, scholars and PhD students, compared to 50,000 structured - so more than half of the employees at the university - who hold lectures, organize conferences, do research, run laboratories and propose international projects successfully. What do they ask? They're asking for something simple. Researchers and non-structured researchers - but also structured teachers and leading figures, including Giorgio Parisi, an internationally renowned physicist, who launched an appeal to save research in Italy - call for an increase in public resources allocated to the university - a very simple thing - currently equal to just 0.5% of national GDP, or less than half of the average of European countries: congratulations! The unlocking of the turnover and an extraordinary recruitment plan are essential. Since 2008 there have been 10,000 retirements of structured teachers and there has been the block of turnover and in the next five years 20,000 more will disappear. It is clear that a system is in place to close the universities and destroy the public university. It is therefore necessary to respond with determination to the desire of a political party to dismantle the public nature of the university: either we stabilize these workers and invest in research, or it is a matter of months and the public university and research will die. But maybe this is Renzi's project. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u274	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u275	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u276	RICHIUTI (PD). Mr President, I have just tabled a parliamentary question on the disturbing story of Seregno, a town near mine, in Brianza. The prefect has closed two bars, because the owners are in contiguity with the 'ndrangheta and some unfortunate have hung a sheet of solidarity, with images not of the victims of mafia and 'ndrangheta, but of the owners of the bar. Sunday, in Seregno, there will be a demonstration against the mafias, to which I give my convinced encouragement, especially since I understand that the judicial police, the other day, carried out a documentary acquisition at the Municipality of Seregno and the office of Mayor Mazza. That is why I look forward to hearing the Government's answer to my question. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u277	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u278	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u279	ZIZA (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the Government should include, among the priorities, the delicate and worrying issue linked to Finmeccanica in Puglia and to the entire aerospace sector of the Region, of which - I would like to point out - are many small and medium-sized companies, representing the economic fabric of my region. I would like to urge, through this note, the start of a cognitive investigation, submitted by myself to the Senate Industry Commission. Especially in the light of the events of the last few days and after the results of the last meeting held in Confindustria in Brindisi, Fr Finmeccanica Helicopter Division and the various trade union acronyms, a cognitive intervention is indispensable and urgent. We cannot waste any more time: we must convene, as a matter of urgency and before it becomes too late, the summits of the industrial giant and of the other companies in the sector. The continuous strikes of the workers of the companies of the district and the increasing number of workers without future prospects commit us to verify the industrial plan of Finmeccanica. The industrial and market logics put in place are leading to the collapse of the entire Apulian aerospace sector, which has always been considered one of the strategic sectors for the entire territorial economy. The desire to relocate, which in fact means transferring entire sectors abroad, closing them in Italy, is putting at risk the holding of all those small and medium-sized enterprises that interfaced with the Finmeccanica group and is sending home hundreds of workers, who will no longer have a job and will see themselves deprived of their work and their professionalism. We will have to ask ourselves why these choices, because Finmeccanica wants to close in Italy and relocate to Poland. The Government, Italy, the citizens and those workers must know the reasons for this decision. The repercussions on the issue of the market and on the level of employment of all those realities require us to make a real reflection on the policy that Finmeccanica carries out in this area. The future of hundreds of workers and families is at risk. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u280	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u281	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u282	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask the answer to the written question 4-04662, tabled on 8 October 2015, in which we are talking about Infratel, which is a 100% subsidiary of Invitalia, a company in house owned by the Ministry of Economic Development. In this question we have highlighted a number of circumstances. Infratel is the company that has been awarded, on behalf of the MISE, the calls for the realization of the fiber optic network for the connectivity to the ultra-wide band for zones C. All these calls were attended by only one company, which obviously turned out to be the only winner, called Telecom Italia. Since it seems strange to us that only one company participates in such an important race (we are talking about 390 million euros of citizens), we wonder why these things happen. We wonder who writes the notices and, if the person who writes them, is close or sensitive to the interests of Telecom Italia. We would like to know this, because we are talking about the money of the citizens we give to Telecom Italia, which invests only one third of the total sum with its own funds and remains the owner of the infrastructure. Some employees are being investigated by the judiciary, directly requested by Invitalia. We have made a report to both the National Anti-Corruption Authority (NAAC) and the Competition and Market Authority and, therefore, we expect to have information, since the Government has allocated 2.2 billion euros to do the infrastructure in question and says it wants to implement it through Infratel. It would be good, then, that we first clean up Infratel and then get her to work. We therefore await with warmth and vigour the answer to this question to understand what the Government is doing to protect citizens and public money, which must not end up in the pockets of a private individual, who always remains dominant in the market. Do we want to do this? Well, the government answers the question and we expect it to act vigorously, if it is capable of doing so. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u283	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-589.ana.u284	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 10 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.58 p.m.
