ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2312, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report, the general discussion took place, the reply of the representative of the Government and the examination of the articles, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u7	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, with the measure under consideration, the Senate is called upon to authorise the ratification and execution of a series of international environmental agreements, which took place between 1991 and 2015. They, on the one hand, impose some obligations on our country, especially for environmental and health considerations to be included in the preparation of plans and programmes in a cross-border context, but, on the other, they open the way to greater cooperation in the field of environmental protection, with particular reference to the fight against pollution in the Mediterranean, sea practically closed and high density navigation, in which therefore accidents are more likely and potentially more difficult to manage. The ratification of the Doha amendment is due to continue the European Union's commitments for the second period of the Kyoto Protocol for the years 2013-2020 through a monitoring and reporting mechanism for greenhouse gas emissions. The Doha amendment does not involve new commitments for our country or for the whole European Union compared to those set out in the climate package, so-called climate-energy package, aimed at achieving by 2020 the so-called 20-20-20 targets, i.e. reducing evening gas emissions, increasing energy from renewable sources and improving energy efficiency. Unfortunately, the second commitment period (2013-2020) covers only 14% of global emissions, since only EU Member States, other European countries and Australia have committed to this effect, while the United States, Russia, Canada, Japan and developing countries have not made any commitments. According to scientists working with the UN, such a modest reduction would cause temperatures to rise by three degrees, just the opposite of the targets that need to be achieved in order to contain climate change. During this period our companies have been committed to adopting technological measures that are costly to reduce CO2 emissions, without concrete results, given the little importance of the amount of emissions saved worldwide. Our vote, which will generally be in favour of the measure, refers above all to the prospect of confidence in the new climate agreement recently reached at the 21st Conference of the Parties in Paris, applicable to all countries for the period after 2020. For the first time, binding accession has also been achieved by States which have shown themselves to be against international agreements in the past with the aim of reducing the increase in global average temperature below two degrees above the levels prior to the industrial revolution. We now know that we will have a National Strategy, in accordance with the global targets, for low-carbon development; that is a positive fact in itself, but it does not say much about the road that will be taken to translate it into concrete facts: what strategic axes will be followed? More gas? More alternative energies? Nuclear, perhaps in a distant future? I mean, what energy mix will be adopted? Those who rule will be able to put anything into it, a circumstance that some may think worrying, but that seems to us to guarantee the flexibility that will be needed at the right time to review some aspects of energy policy, when we return to administer the country. The draft law confers significant powers on the Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA). The Institute will expand its expertise to include policies, measures and projections of data on the implementation of international environmental agreements related to the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. ISPRA will also be responsible for collecting data and updating the system used to store data. Of course, special responsibilities in this area are also assigned to the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, which is given the function of collecting and communicating information on climate change and greenhouse gas effects. Starting with the conclusions, as the North Autonomous League, we have no particular reason to oppose the ratification of these six environmental agreements. We only hope that the limits imposed by these agreements will be respected by all the signatory States, because the protection and protection of the environment and of the so-called common global goods cannot be the business of a few: it must be a duty of all. The charges are not very light, since they are about 550,000 euros per year, but they are still a sustainable figure. It's worth it. For these reasons, the Lega Nord Autonomie Group will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u10	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the Senators of the Italian Left - Left Ecology Members of the Mixed Group will vote in favour of the ratification of the agreements under consideration. However, given this premise, we are obliged to note some critical elements which, in our view, must be considered. First of all, I would like to remind everyone here that we are preparing to ratify these agreements with a shameful delay, starting with the 2012 Doha amendment, not to mention other protocols, such as that made in Valletta in 2002. We are therefore talking about protocols that should have been ratified many years ago. Among the Member States of the European Union, Italy is the only state, together with Poland, that has not yet ratified the Doha amendment and, however, it should be stressed that such ratification does not entail new commitments, as these have already been included in the climate and energy package, which provides for a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, while after 2020 it will operate as foreseen in the COP21 agreement, which will be ratified in New York in a few days' time. Therefore, the right vote this morning, which was almost unanimous, on the part of the ratification bill relating to the Doha amendment must remind everyone that this is a starting point and not a point of arrival. Given the analyses and commitments made over the last few years, I would like to point out that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has assessed that developed countries will have to reduce their emissions by between 80% and 95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. Thus, the National Low Emission Development Strategy set out in the draft law could also make progress with a strategy that includes emissive neutrality and decarbonisation, with set targets. But now that is the point: here there have been all votes in favour, but the policies of this Government are far from pursuing this path. Therefore, it is good that this veil of hypocrisy should also be broken in the explanation of vote, because next Sunday we are going to vote for a referendum and this Government, which should invite us to vote yes if the vote expressed here today were true, is instead campaigning for this popular consultation to fail. [[Applause from Senators De Pietro and Nugnes]] If they really are not sentences made or just hypocrisies, we should know well that Doha's amendment is a starting point and that the road we take must be made of a clear and precise strategy, aimed at radically changing our national energy strategy, otherwise we will never arrive at emissive neutrality and decarbonization, with all the consequent effects not only for our country, but for the whole world. I would also like to mention the other contradiction concerning the Protocol on cooperation in the prevention of pollution caused by ships and the fight against pollution in the Mediterranean. It is true that the text focuses mainly on the prevention of ship pollution, but, again, it is impossible not to refer to the question of drilling. I say this very clearly: the ISPRA data published in 2014 say that in our sea there are 200,000 large boats, including ferries, cargo and commercial boats, of which about 300 tankers carrying oil products daily. Every year therefore the Mediterranean suffers oil spills for about 600,000 tons and there are 27 accidents in the Mediterranean. That protocol has been waiting to be ratified for about fourteen years. In the text attached to the bill that we are voting is also emphasized that there are 125 million tons of hydrocarbons, approximately 10 percent of the world's hydrocarbons, that they are enlivened every year in the Italian ports. It is therefore doubly alarming that we want to leave it to the oil companies to continue to extract hydrocarbons freely in our sea, expanding the time for the decommissioning of the platforms. Among other things, on the issue of platforms we have put a question on the basis of very alarming data coming from a WWF research. There are many cases of spilling and many open issues. I say this to say that the idea that we can say, even by voting in favour, that the Government is committed to the fight against pollution of the sea is very weak, because what is happening these days and what has emerged from the investigations tell us exactly the opposite. The same issue concerns public consultations and citizens' participation in environmental issues, which is dealt with by the rules relating to the EU's European Economic Commission and the United Nations Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a cross-border context. Here we are talking about the cross-border context, but I would like to stress that our country remains one of the most backward on the subject of the participation of non-governmental organisations, associations and citizens in decisions concerning or impacting on the environment. Of course it is a good thing that we are finally ratifying this Convention, but once again we must realise that these are simple starting points, that the road, especially with regard to the part of climate change, is still long and that the Government must completely change its National Energy Strategy, otherwise we pretend to ratify, but we do exactly the opposite. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u13	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, at last we are going to ratify six environmental agreements which come to Parliament with a guilty delay. For some the delay is decades and some are already overcome by other agreements that we will have to ratify shortly. This, as other colleagues have said, is a symptom of our country's lack of attention: where very often words do not follow the facts, agreements do not follow ratifications. In addition, these agreements, after having laid down for years, are merged and forced into an anonymous procedure that humiliates, once again, the parliamentary debate, because we are in a hurry to ratify the Paris Agreement, to be signed very shortly in New York. We are, therefore, faced with the ratification of agreements that have been overcome in numbers and in deeds. I am glad that the Government wanted to accept the agendas on two of the issues we consider most important, referred to in letter a) and letter c), but how many agendas were accepted by this Government without any follow-up? This concerns us, and that is why we still care to stress the importance of these agendas. The Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, referred to in point (a) of the draft law, was signed on 8 December 2012. We must remember that, with regard to this commitment, we are very late and that the Kyoto Protocol is the only international treaty in force to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and therefore constitutes a fundamental and very important commitment. Just in order to ensure the continuity of the action of that first Agreement, which covered the period 2008-2012, we went to sign a second Agreement, the Doha amendment, for the period 2013-2020, yet we, since spring 2007, only today we are concerned to ratify it. Although, as pointed out, the climate-energy package has already exceeded these data, we have not even checked in the appropriate fora whether the objectives of the Kyoto Protocol and the Doha amendment have been met and what the results of these agreements are. It is therefore absolutely necessary to carry out these checks and to realize that this is a starting point and cannot be a point of arrival. Indeed, the Kyoto Protocol, as has been demonstrated by now, is an absolutely insufficient reference point and the Paris Climate Conference has confirmed this. As far as the Protocol referred to in point (c) of the draft law in question is concerned, in my opinion it is even more serious and guilty of this Government to have failed to ratify an agreement which dated 25 January 2002 and which therefore dates back fourteen years ago, an agreement which has become mandatory, also for Italy and for the other countries that did not ratify it, in March 2004, when six countries of the Union ratified it. The Protocol also provided for binding obligations with regard to the legislative and regulatory adaptation of the countries, but we have done nothing, we have made commitments to which we have not given any response and has not met in any way, for the safety and the prevention of environmental disasters in our seas with regard to the oil traffic of the ships, that we know amount to 10% of the total. So, how do we want to safeguard our sea when we have not been involved in ratifying this important Valletta Pact for fourteen years? What guidelines and regulatory requirements have been put in place? Nobody! I therefore hope that with the acceptance of the G101 agenda by the Government, this commitment will be implemented quickly. And on April 17, in the referendum, vote yes! [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u16	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with regard to the late ratification and implementation of the agreements we are dealing with in environmental matters, we do not think it appropriate and negative to use a single legislative instrument through which more important acts are ratified and implemented, each of which would require its own specific ratification measure. We also consider the inclusion of Chapter II, which introduces the rules for adapting the Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, to be operationally inadequate and not because we have particular reservations about the need to proceed with concrete programming measures. In fact, just yesterday, when discussing the motions on ecobonus, I highlighted the lack of adequate sector planning, specific, coordinated, in-depth and transparent. We would, however, have preferred a separate discussion, in the context of a special non-hurried bill, whose process was not obliged to respect the very tight times which the Government forces us, demeaning the role of the Chambers and expelling, day after day, the prerogatives that the current Constitution confers on the parliamentary classrooms. Again, nothing happens by chance: we are probably faced with an acceleration imposed so that the Government can go to New York on April 22 to sign the Paris Climate Agreement. Failure to ratify the Doha amendment could, in fact, constitute an impediment to the regular signing by the Italian Government of the agreement drawn up under COP 21. On the other hand, the agreements that the Assembly is called to ratify are important and must be included in the chain of actions that our country is obliged to adopt in the field of energy, in the fight against climate change and in the procedures of EIA, in particular going to prepare the National Strategy of development at low emissions, within which to define useful guidelines and actions for the transformation of the Italian society, technological innovation and efficiency in various fields, identifying, moreover, tasks and operating limits of the subjects called to the implementation. Therefore, with the usual sense of responsibility that distinguishes the work of our Group, we welcome the adoption of the measure under consideration, still pointing out the discomfort in continuing our work within a framework so fragmented and without a clear general framework of reference, the definition of which we hope can actively participate, in the near future, all the senators and committees concerned, without time limits. I therefore declare the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u19	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, I rise to declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this bill and to stress, first of all, that this is a draft law that must be voted on quickly, because we must be in line with the other countries of the European Union in order to proceed with the signing of the Paris Protocol. Secondly, I would like to point out that our delays, which are often more political than not in fact, do not correspond to the country that I have heard in many of the speeches I have described: we are a country more in order than many other European countries and many industrialised countries, both in terms of emissions, and in terms of respect for the objectives we have set ourselves with the Kyoto Protocol. We are a country that regularly travels its way towards renewable energy more than other countries have done. Then, with less guilt than many of my colleagues, I will vote in favour of this measure. I ask the President to be able to deliver the written text of my speech and I would add that we have done well to vote separately on Article 1, as we have been advised, because these are different subjects, contained in a single article, which had to be analysed separately, just as Senator D'Alì has led us to do, I believe, rightly so. The rapporteurs accepted this proposal and did well. I therefore declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour and move on like this. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u20	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the text of your speech, thanking you for the summary.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u23	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u24	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill n. 2312, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u25	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00487 by Senator Amidei and other Senators, and 1-005444 by Senator Lucidi and other Senators, on acts of inspection union of parliamentarians. I call Senator Amidei to explain motion No 487.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u26	Mr President, after so much expectation, the emotion also plays its part, to the point that it does not seem true that today we are discussing a subject that has been debated several times. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] For a very long time, in fact, all of us senators have been complaining about a lack of answers in percentages appropriate to the number of questions, questions and motions that have been tabled. I now come to the reading of the text of the motion of which I am the first signatory. The Senate, considering that: the Institute of the Inspection Union is a fundamental instrument of control available to parliamentarians, of majority and opposition, through which they can confer with the Government, and is exercised through: "interrogations," to receive information or clarification on a particular object or to know whether and what measures have been taken or are intended to take in relation to the same object; "interrogations," which require account in the request addressed to the Government of the reasons or intentions of its conduct on matters of particular importance or of a general nature; It was necessary to specify what we are talking about. For each of the instruments, there is a timetable to be respected, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, in order to provide answers to Members who request them, ranging from a maximum of 15 days, for oral questions, to a minimum of one day for urgent questions, and from a maximum of one month, for questions, to a minimum of 15 days, for questions by abbreviated procedure; the Rules of Procedure, in Chapter XIX, Articles 145 to 161, provides for the above and also that, for the conduct of oral questions and questions, at least one session per week is normally intended; to date, the percentage of the acts which have been answered is about 19 per cent - at most, from other investigations I have done, is 22 to 23 per cent - with an average time of 126 days. At the top of the list is the Ministry of the Interior with 820 acts received, then the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - the Ministries of Health, Economic Development, Infrastructure and Transport, Education, University and Research and so on. It is obvious that, over time, the numerical data recorded in the motion have changed, however many ministries are involved in questions and questions. For many parliamentarians the act of inspection union is the only instrument through which to interact with the Government and, to date, many of these remain unanswered on issues of a territorial nature, which deal with issues sensitive to citizenship; while respecting the centrality of the Parliament, the reformers of the parliamentary regulations, in 1971, intended to greatly strengthen - and not by chance - the exercise of parliamentary control towards the Government. The situation is therefore unheard of and unacceptable because, in fact, it deprives Members of the function of control conferred on them by the Constitutional Charter. In view of the fact that: the first signatory of this act of address is using the instrument of questioning by abbreviated procedure, governed by article 156- bis of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, presenting on March 5, 2015 the act of inspection union 2-00252, with which he denounced the lack of answer to questions and interrogations by the Government; such interrogation by abbreviated procedure was signed by senators - 63 to be precise, because then I stopped - by various parliamentary groups in a cross-cutting way (among which Force Italy, North League, Great autonomous and freedom, Conservators and Reformists, Mixed-Movement X), demonstrating the fact that dissatisfaction with the Government is widespread; after more than 5 months, no response from the Executive has been given and in this regard the first signatory has chosen to intervene weeklyly at the end of the session to solicit - I add: punctually - a response to all his acts of inspection union, but not only to his own as happened in this way, since several times the risk of becoming ridiculous, had come to the fact that he had been at the end of this session, almost repeatedly, had been taken at the risk of becoming, since the last session. In spite of the many speeches, there has been no response from the Government to the acts of inspection union or to any position regarding the persistent and long-standing question of the low index of response to the same; without the aforementioned instrument, the legislative power is, in fact, deprived of its prerogative of control over the work of the Executive and, therefore, there is a strong divergence between the provisions of the Constitution and what actually occurs; there is therefore the improbable necessity and urgency that the Government becomes fully aware of the precedent that is being consolidated, it is asked that the Government undertake to take action in order to take all the actions of its own competence, so that the various Dicasteries can dispose of the backwardness of acts of inspection union, in compliance with the prerogatives of the Parliament and the function of control recognized to the parliamentarians, taking into account, even briefly, any failure to respond to them. Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this appeal makes me proud to fight and to insist on the possibility of questioning the Government, because this represents the dignity and one of the fundamental roles of Members of Parliament, but at the same time, if I express this satisfaction and, if we want, also emotion, I also express a great deal of concern, because I would never be able to forgive myself and forgive the Government if this motion were accepted, if it lasted with the old system. At that point, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask in a tone if we want a bit ironic but not so much, to change the Rules of Procedure of this Senate and add an article that coincides with a well-known aphorism: let us ask ourselves a question, let us give ourselves an answer. That would be the end of our role. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u27	I call Senator Lucidi to explain motion No 544.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u28	Mr President, I thank Senator Amidei for his brilliant and passionate illustration. I will add a few points to what my colleague said and start with the genesis of the two motions under consideration. In fact, it all starts from a question that I put almost a year and a half ago with which we wondered why the government's response to our inspection union acts was so low. We then considered the possibility of questioning the Minister for Relations with the Boschi Parliament and arranged a parliamentary question to ask why the Government did not answer parliamentary questions. Well, the result was paradoxically that we obviously did not have an answer to that parliamentary question: here is the paradox from which this moment begins. Having said that, the 5 Star Movement has presented three acts concerning the topic under consideration, also to signify the importance of the acts of inspection union. But I would like to go a little further than Mr Amidei's description, in the sense that the act of inspection union is an instrument with which we can not only exercise a verification and control over the daily exercise of the Government, but also verify how it controls the territory. We are also talking about bodies and regions, as well as companies and, therefore, we can ask - and we have often done so - how they behave in relation to existing regulations. The act of inspection union is a prince instrument that the senator or congressman has in his hands. We have often stumbled into answers, even from bodies and administrations, which have represented us - for example - that in the act of making a request for access - forgive repetition - to acts in a given administration, in fact the best instrument for a senator or a Member is the institute of the inspection union rather than the same request. This is all the more proof of the importance of this instrument. Mr Amidei has already pointed out some numbers and percentages, but I could update you because our motion was tabled a few days ago, so we have more up-to-date data, which you find in the motion. The only important fact that I would like to highlight is the inequality present in the response percentages: at the Senate we have a total of responses to union acts around 23.5%, while as far as the acts presented to the House are concerned we are around 37.3%. And that reminds me of something else. This should be an additional element that makes us understand that we can abolish or diminish our Senate not only through constitutional reforms, but also by demeaning the acts of inspection union. And I could give you examples, which is just one of the ways it can be done. I do not know if you remember, ladies and gentlemen, but when we entered Parliament, about three years ago, in the short stretch of road linking our Palace with that of the Spanish Heritage, there was a great stir of television journalists and newspapers. Well, I don't know if you've noticed the same thing, but following Renzi's announcement of the notorious constitutional reform that would have abolished the Senate as we know it, those journalists disappeared. One of the ways of abolishing one thing is not only to remove it legally, but also to make it disappear from the political debate. And the low percentage of response to the acts of inspection union makes me realize that we are talking, also in this case, about the same topic. I would like to say here that not all the faults - in my opinion - are due to a lack of government activity, which has responded in a certain percentage, because it could argue that, in fact, the number and the amount of the acts presented are quite demanding and, therefore, oversized. I don't know if that's true. It is clear, however, that every Member is free to question what he thinks is most useful. But it is also true that there is no control on the part of the parliamentary groups. This relates to another speech I have already made in this House. It happens that a political party comes to the elections and then before Parliament with a majority government that does not respect the commitments made with the citizens, nor its programme. And that is what is happening in Italy in recent months: we have a random majority, which has been elected with programs that no one remembers anymore, and a Government, supported by it, that is carrying out a program never submitted to the citizens' scrutiny. This also applies to acts of inspection union: Members and senators are allowed the freedom to present any kind of act, so there are notorious acts of inspection union - famous those on the cow Clarabella - to acts presented by our former colleagues simply on the basis of journalistic scoops (you see a press release and you immediately present a parliamentary question, maybe only to appear in the newspapers for a few minutes). This is certainly a bad practice that every parliamentary group should have been able to contain. I shall conclude by simply telling you what commitments we are asking the Government to make on our motion. Basically we ask the government to provide some elements to understand why there is a difference in the percentage of responses between the House and the Senate. We also ask him to undertake to respond, however, to all acts of inspection union that are still pending. And the last commitment - also this important one, in my opinion - is a sort of report on the state of implementation of the various motions and acts of inspection union. The government, over the course of these years, as always has made many commitments and this means, to some extent, keeping them, and applies not only to this, but also to the bill. We therefore call for a report to confirm the state of implementation of the commitments made, which is very important to us, because the 5 Star Movement has a strong link with the territory and sees its activity as the product of what its activists did. We are therefore obliged to report our activists and our territories on the results obtained, which consist not only in the approval of a motion or in having obtained a response to an act of inspection union, but also in verifying whether the commitments were then pursued by the Government. I would therefore stress the importance of this third and final point, and thank you for your attention, pending the Government's answers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u29	We greet professors and students of the Istituto tecnico statale (State Technical Institute) Francesco Viganò di Merate, in the province of Lecco, who are attending our works. [[Applause]] We also greet professors and students of the Institute of Higher Education Galilei-Artiglio in Viareggio, in the province of Lucca. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u30	I declare the debate open. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u31	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Amidei, who has allowed the entire League Group to sign his motion, which concerns a fundamental subject of a country's democratic life. We are talking about relations between Parliament and the Government. Parliament is the expression of popular sovereignty, managed by an electoral mandate. The democratic life of a rule of law and a democratic country is based exclusively on the centrality of Parliament. The Government is a product - not a by-product, but a product - of Parliament, and it must remain in office and enjoy Parliament's trust. That is what our parliamentary system, our Constitution, says. My colleague Mr Amidei, allow me to point out that the motion speaks of an inspection union, but the picture is comprehensive. The Government has residual legislative powers in the Constitution. Only in cases of necessity and urgency can the Government replace Parliament, which Parliament must then ratify all the work: either convert those acts or modify them or reject them. Here, on the other hand, we are increasingly called upon to discuss government measures, to grant delegations to the government of which, then, we lose control. The government returns to the Chamber and does not even allow discussion, because the arguments are of such importance that it is necessary to close the proceedings and thus systematically raise issues of trust. Where are we going? We're moving towards a system that grants full powers. My colleague, Mr Amidei, rightly says - and all the sub-signators acknowledge - that the Government does not even answer the questions that individual parliamentarians, by majority or opposition, submit to it. With the approval of Italicum we have placed in the hands of one owner the fate of the country. Italians will no longer be able to decide which parliamentarians to send to the next House, because the lists will be blocked for two thirds by the choices of the next party leader and, correspondingly, of Government. Institutional reform restricts, demolishes and diminishes the power of local authorities and regions. Never again will there be competing subjects of competence, all of which will be re-enacted and re-centralized. In Senator Amidei's motion, we read that the government only responds to 19% of the issues raised. And it doesn't answer, then, in terms and time. In addition to not answering the four fifths of the questions that are submitted to him, he answers, on average, in one hundred and twenty-seven days. And I remember that the timing is important, because sometimes time makes even the need to have an answer fail. It's like justice. Justice that doesn't come in time is not justice. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] Preventing Members from having access to acts is like preventing them from exercising their mandate. It is a matter of absolute gravity. In conclusion, we want to say that the blame, at this point, is not so much in the fact that they do not respect the times for the answers. The fact is that there is absolutely no respect for Parliament, and that means that the Constitution is not being respected. It is a government that must close and let the voters choose one more democratic and more responsive to the interests of our tortured country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Malan]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u32	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u33	Mr President, as well as I welcome the fact that we are finally talking about this issue in this House, I would like to make my contribution by supplementing some of the points that have already been made and highlighting certain aspects. First of all, inspection union acts have two specific values. On the one hand, they correspond to the senators' need to use this instrument as access to acts and as a solicitation for the government. Let us not forget, in fact, that access to documents has its own specific discipline and during this legislature it has happened that administrations have denied it on issues related to the territory, invoking precisely the fact that the senators have their own specific path of the act of inspection union. It is, therefore, clear that if Athens answers no and even Sparta responds negatively, we remain without any answer. The acts of inspection union also have the function of soliciting the Government, through the question on the state of the art regarding procedures that may have had to be already active or in the final phase. It is a request to the Government not only to know where we have arrived, but also to remind the various ministries of competence that some territories are waiting for the realization of acts, perhaps already prepared by the Government itself. The other aspect, always of value, is that the activity of inspection union is particularly relevant for the opposition forces. It does not escape, in fact, from anyone here that the supporters of the Government have - and we must recognize it - always and in any case a privileged channel for having information and subjecting their territorial issues. Many Members present use this instrument with great wealth and generosity, sometimes on the subject and sometimes even on the contrary, so much so that sometimes it comes to wonder why the senators of the majority clogged the Ministries with issues that could simply resolve with a phone call to Mr Undersecretary, also thanks to their support. And this becomes particularly annoying for oppositions, because this is a fundamental channel also to give an answer to that territory that asks us what we are going to do in the Senate if we can not even get one. This specific value is not only about what is being demanded, but also about the correct representation of citizens who do not want to vote on what becomes a majority and are represented by an opposition force that must not be penalised. After this more practical point, the second one I intend to deal with is more political, but it relates to it. It has already been said by my colleagues that the inspection union is an instrument of interaction between legislative power and executive power and I would say that it is not only for the opposition, but for everyone and, therefore, also for the majority. Therefore, perception - perhaps, given the figures, it is more than a perception - is that there is a substantial disinterest on the part of the Ministries in responding to the requests of the senators, and it is no coincidence that I say senators and not parliamentarians. The laziness, the disinterest in responding to senators becomes a bad signal because the act of inspection union better restores the connection between who should make the laws and who should have them executed or found the way to execute them, and then there should be a space of comparison on the state of execution of what was arranged by this House. And today I say above all, because there is little in this House, in the sense that it is decided in particular elsewhere, in another Chamber or outside of both Parliament's classrooms. So you and you, Mr Pizzetti, understand how important it is to have a clear answer on this issue, which concerns the mechanism of politics. Either we want to completely eliminate the existence of legislative power in the face of an executive power, or we need to cure those that may seem annoying stumbles in the connection between the two powers. Then there is another political aspect that concerns everyone, and not only majority and opposition, Chamber of Deputies and Senate, but also you, Lords of the Government. I am referring to the exercise of transparency and democracy: the demands that are being made must be answered, because otherwise it might seem that they do not want to be given because transparency is demanding and annoying. I would like to add another point, because I would like to make a constructive and not biased speech. Undoubtedly this is a dead end of the prerogatives and duties of Members of Parliament and the Government, from which I believe it is everyone's interest to leave. Two real problems must be admitted. The first is that, in fact, perhaps indiscriminate use is made of the inspection union. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] Personally I have tried to use the inspection union tool to ask real questions, but I realize - and we must all admit this - that with its use we tend to give the territories a semblance of answer, knowing perfectly that questions do not get answered, or perhaps should not be addressed to a Ministry or whose answers are perhaps already in the public domain. Perhaps there are also answers that, if you look better, could be found without an act of inspection union. I admit - and I believe we all have to admit this - that the scale of the acts of inspection union is really important and, perhaps, a sort of reflection on the usefulness of this instrument and the great risk that we all run in using it indiscriminately could be carried out by the senators. The real problem - problem number two - is that so the government somehow chooses and, from flower to flower, maybe decides to answer the questions of the heap less demanding and not the more challenging ones. This is not nice, nor useful for anyone and it is very comfortable. If we create turbid, then it is not so impossible for someone to fish for their own interest. I believe that there must be - for my part - an appeal to the Government to ensure that the commitments contained in both motions are not formally accepted and that there is a willingness to achieve efficiency. And let me give you a small example. It is not only the matter or the question, but there is also a problem within the ministerial offices. In the past, I have tabled a question on the remaining credits of schools, which I have accompanied with many phone calls, finally identifying the office that could give me answers, which has filled the responsibility to other offices, considering in this way to solve the problem. And he solved it, because I haven't received a reply since 2013. So, on the one hand, there is a need for greater efficiency, in the sense that we need to identify those responsible - do what you believe - and solve what is really becoming a pitiful situation. On the other side, though...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u34	I invite you to conclude, Senator Mussini.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u35	MUSSINI (Mixed). President, I would ask you to appeal to the President of the Senate to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for a different discipline. It is not possible that Minister Giannini goes to the House question time and never comes here to the Senate. That's not possible. Obviously something is not working and it is to the detriment of the last point I wish to make. My fear is that there will be a willingness to go ahead with the reform that was approved yesterday and to delegitimize one House in advance of the other. May the President of the Senate at least preserve us from this unfortunate and sad scenario. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u36	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u37	Mr President, I consider the debate that has taken place, the debate that has taken place, as well as the speeches by the motion-makers and also by Mr Mussini, to which I would also like to say that Mr Giannini is returning from Iran and has given his willingness to be present at tomorrow's sitting. I welcome the motions tabled by Mrs Amidei and Mrs Lucidi because they are inspired by a positive and useful role in the intercourse between Parliament and the Government, which I consider very important because it enhances the parliamentary function also in relation to the territorial representations. I would like to say to my colleague Mr Mussini that the function of the inspection union is at the head of every single Member of Parliament, and it does not stand out on the basis of where that Member is sitting in the Chamber. It's a fact in itself. It is necessary on my part - and I hope also on your part - to separate the judgment that moves only partially from considerations that correspond to the real or even, in some intervention, from actions that are merely opposed to the useful solicitation to do more and better, that comes to all of us and, in this case, to the Government, that I would like to gather so that today can have some element of further positivity. Already with the letter first and then with the question of Senator Manconi and other parliamentarians the question of a greater incisiveness of the inspection union and, above all, of a more rapid response had been put to our attention. In this respect, we have also acted with due responsibility towards Parliament as a result of further demands. Last May a letter was sent from our Dicastery precisely to urge the Ministries and Ministers to pay more attention to the inspection union. Last December there was the meeting with those responsible, also promoted by the Ministry of Relations with Parliament, of the legislative offices of the various ministries to urge more speed. This issue was also raised by Minister Boschi directly, albeit informally, at a meeting of the Council of Ministers. I would like to give you some partial refutation of some of the considerations I have heard here. The trend in response to parliamentary acts since the beginning of this parliamentary term has gone from 28.6 percent to 35.5 percent, a sign that the demands have sincerely given some positive elements. If I then have to compare with previous governments of past legislation at the same time, I would like you to note the following data: in the XIV legislature, with the second Berlusconi Government, the acts submitted were 18.242 and those concluded 7.295; in the XV legislature, with the Prodi Government, the acts submitted were 15.798 and the acts concluded 6.448; in the previous legislature, with the fourth Berlusconi Government, the acts submitted were 16.488 and those concluded 6.456; in the current temporal phase, that of the Renzi Government, the acts submitted were 22.369 and those concluded 7.880. What I think the data shows - and I would like it to be acknowledged - is the sharp rise in the number of inspection union acts. And as you can see from the numbers that I have read to you, although they are still considered insufficient, there has been a sharp increase in the answers given by the government. The fact, however, is that the answers do not keep the pace of the quantity of acts presented, which are 4,000 more than in the 14th legislature [[Comments of Senator Candiani]] , 6,500 more than in the 15th legislature and 6,000 more than in the previous one, in the same period of time. Therefore, I put this aspect to the attention of all of you together with the other factor of the increasing complexity of the acts and requests, of their intersectorality and, above all, of the connection, sometimes sincerely labile - and you said so in your interventions - with the responsibilities of the national government. Mr Amidei, for example, mentioned - similar references have also been made by my colleagues Lucidi and Mussini - acts that deal with issues sensitive to citizenship, issues of a territorial nature. However, I would like it to be understood that it is difficult to respond quickly to these kinds of acts, which ask us to review acts within local authorities or companies and companies, which are no longer under the direct responsibility of the Government and in respect of which the Government itself asks for the courtesy of a collaboration, in building up the answers that are given to parliamentarians. This is the theme of complexity, which has to do not with the will, but with a real condition. Therefore, first of all, I intend to ensure that the Government will also be active in these bodies, which are not dependent on the national government, in order to have greater cooperation. And I would like to ask that the cognitive acts that you activate also take into account this real condition. Finally, as expressed in particular in Mr Lucidi's motion on the difference between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, this is a real fact, but not with regard to written answers. The level of written answers is almost the same between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. On the other hand, there is a difference in the treatment of other aspects of the inspection union, particularly oral questions and so on, partly because the House of Deputies has a different way of dealing with them. I would remind you, for example, that the Friday morning sitting in the Chamber of Deputies is devoted to acts of inspection union. Mr Lucidi and Senator Mussini have made useful suggestions on this and I can of course only make them mine. Of course, as a government, I cannot allow myself to interfere in the organization of the work. What I can tell you is that, if the organization changes, we are absolutely willing to respond to the greatest and most timely needs of our colleagues with the motions. With regard to the motions in question, apart from the numerical data, which have now changed, and apart from the commitments or requests to which I have already replied in some way in my speech, I would like to say the following. On motion No 487 tabled by Senator Amidei and other Senators, if the presenters agree, I would accept all the premises; I would suggest a change in the last paragraph of the premises, in the sense of expunging from the text is unheard of and unacceptable, because, leaving behind, therefore, the situation exposed, in fact, deprives Members of Parliament; I would ask to expunge the considerations and accept the commitments. Therefore, I would fully accept the premises and commitments and express my thoughts. If these amendments were accepted, the Government would give a favourable opinion on the motion. With regard to motion 544, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators, I would expunge the premises, accept all considerations and all commitments in full, with an addition: it further engages the Government. I therefore welcome the commitments of both motions, the premises of Senator Amidei's motion, the correction I have proposed, and the considerations of Senator Lucidi's motion, with the addition that I have made.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u38	Senator Amidei, do you accept the proposals for reformulation just made by the Undersecretary?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u39	Mr President, as we had previously assessed in other changes that you suggested, the important thing is that the government's commitment remains so. I therefore welcome the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u40	Senator Lucidi, do you accept the proposals for reformulation just made by the Undersecretary?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u41	Mr President, we welcome the reformulations. If you will allow me, I would invite the Presidency to take charge of the government's report: since there is a discrepancy in the response rate, let us consider whether this can be charged to the House that an entire afternoon session is dedicated to the inspection union. Perhaps we could use one of the days available to us through the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I kindly invite you to take charge of this request, also because the Government has given its willingness to do so. We therefore accept the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u42	Senator Lucidi, without disturbing the Rules of Procedure, it is sufficient that the Conference of the Leaders schedule the inspection union on Tuesday morning or Friday morning, and the problem is solved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u45	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will be very brief. We refer in full to what my colleague, Mr Divina, has said in the debate. We fully agree with what is contained in the motion that we have firmly signed. Let us consider, albeit briefly, what has been reported by the Undersecretary Pizzetti: if in all the Berlusconi Government 18,000 were the acts of inspection union, while in the Renzi Government, in two years, 22,000, perhaps it is better to ask some questions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And the answers, however, always appear to be within the 30% limit. We therefore share the motions and the vote of the North League will be firmly in favour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u48	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, Senator Mussini has made clear the issues, including constitutional issues, which have been the subject of the motions under consideration. We will therefore vote in favour of both the motion we have signed with Senator Amidei and the other motion. I would, however, like to point out to the Government some issues. The answer rates are really ridiculous and I quote our own: only by the Senators of the Italian Left Group 469 questions have been tabled and only 86 have been answered and that is 18.5%. We are already almost at the end of the parliamentary term; the problem is really very serious. It is not just a problem of organization between us and the House. I am sorry to say this, but the Government obviously does not consider the acts of inspection union - which are one of the most important prerogatives of parliamentarians - worthy of receiving an answer. I'll make a proposal. The Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups may decide to spend a day, but we have a problem, Mr President. The question time between the House and the Senate is very different. The Senate is based on questions that are welcomed by ministers - because they are sent before - and this is no longer possible. I therefore believe that, in addition to the decision taken by the Conference of the Leaders to hold a meeting, there is still a problem of convening the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, constitutional reforms are over, so what are you afraid of? You can safely convene the Board for the Rules of Procedure and finally make a serious question time, in which Ministers can really respond to the footprint, to unselected questions that individual senators decide to ask. Obviously, after these commitments of the Government, we expect finally to arrive the answers to questions and questions, that is to say to all the acts of inspection union that we have presented, as well as other groups, otherwise also that of today is another day that risks being absolutely lost. We expect, therefore, that the expected answers will finally begin to arrive next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u51	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, the first act of trade union inspection of our constitutional history was presented on 12 May 1848 and is an interrogation of Congressman Ferdinando Palluel, entitled "The approach of the French troops to the Savoy," written not in Italian, but in French. He answered the same day by the foreign minister of the Kingdom of Sardinia Pareto, to which were added the clarifications of the minister of grace and justice Sclopis and the minister of public works Des Ambrois. Since then, things have changed a lot, as I said at the beginning, and the response times have extended to the point that, for example, my question addressed the first year of parliamentary term to the MISE, exactly on November 5, 2013, on the case of the CIL company in Livorno, was answered in 2015, but especially when it was no longer needed, because in the meantime the workers had lost their jobs. It is natural that if the answers are so late, they lose much of their usefulness. Within two years many things are resolved, for good or for bad, and the late intervention of the Ministry provides information that has often been disclosed by the press for some time. In this regard, I had also filed an act of inspection union by abbreviated procedure, signed by the entire 5 Star Movement Group, in which it was asked that the Government give an answer to the inspection acts presented, and that obviously it was not taken over. However, the real problem that risks permanently compromising the delicate relationship and dialogue that should exist between the Government, Minister and Parliament are the lack of answers, silence and indifference. The repeated lack of answers prevents and makes impossible this dialogue between Members of the Commission and Members of Parliament, and is an obstacle to the full functioning of our democracy. As has been pointed out several times in the parliamentary debate and in doctrine, at the basis of the power to ask questions and questions, there is a democratic body of which Parliament is the natural bearer, since our system is, in fact, a parliamentary democracy. The power to ask recognized questions to parliamentarians responds to a democratic need and represents a function of control over the work of the Government, recognized since the origins of the history of the Italian Constitution. In the Constitution there is an implicit recognition of the power of parliamentarians to request information from the Government. Specifically, the fourth paragraph of Article 64 states that the members of the Government have the right and, if requested, the obligation to attend parliamentary sessions. This rule presupposes the absolute necessity of a political dialogue between the members of the Government and the parliamentarians and ensures its realization, ensuring participation in the parliamentary assemblies also to the members of the Government. The delays and the lack of answers have led all of us to make use of the inspection union tool not to ask questions, but in order to ask answers to questions that have not been answered: we are therefore in the paradox. As was said earlier, the percentages are scandalous: 17.9% of answers to questions, 29.7% for oral questions, 19.9% for written questions. The Bureau of the Senate, repeatedly urged for this situation to be resolved, has failed, as is evident to date, to remedy it. Many of these questions simply concern access to documents kept in archives by the central government of the State. That is, sometimes you only require a document, a file that could be sent simply by email. But obviously, and certainly not in the interests of citizens and transparency, something must remain yellowing in the ministries' drawers. I would remind you that more ministries have refused to provide information and documents that are not subject to special confidentiality constraints, which should have been easy and immediate access not only to Members but to all citizens. In many cases they are documents that are found in other European countries doing a simple search on the net. For years, the Ministry of the Civil Service, at least in words, has been carrying out the project of transparency of public administration and documents that are stored in public administration archives. In Italy, too, it would be desirable to have a model of access to acts of public administration comparable to Sweden or the United Kingdom. But perhaps, in order to achieve this, we would also need a government that does not aspire to authoritarian methods and models. It is clear that pending a radical reform of our system of access to public documents, the Ministries could in the meantime facilitate this by simplifying the internal regulations. This simple intervention would immediately guarantee a decrease in the acts of inspection union presented. The question of the effectiveness of the questions and questions put remains open. The Government should intervene to rationalise the structures and offices responsible for responding to inspection union acts. It is disconcerting to see that more than 80% of oral or written questions and questions get no answers. The acts of inspection union as an instrument of direction, control and information, exist also in other European systems, however it turns out that this backwardness is found neither in the Parliament of the United Kingdom, neither in the Parliament of the German Federal Republic, nor in the Parliament of the French Republic, countries that, due to size and complexity of institutions, are comparable to Italy. In these countries, in fact, governments have managed to deal with and manage this function in an effective and rational way, because they have made use of appropriate practices and tools. At this point the Government is asked to resolve this situation and not to force us to intervene again on this issue. Personally, I have tabled about 60 questions and written replies, and only twice have I had the pleasure of having an answer. Too bad the answers, in fact, I had read them months before in the newspapers! It is not a question of a political group, it is a question of respecting democratic institutions and the dialogue that must take place between them. I would remind you that many late-session speeches on this subject have been made not by members of the opposition, but by senators from the ranks of the majority, that is, even more clearly said for the Italian citizens who are listening to us, the Government refuses to answer the questions and questions of the parliamentarians themselves of its majority. The Government, with its Ministries, has many offices. It would be appropriate for the officials and managers of the Council Presidency to show adequate care and respect for the role that we all play. The motion presented by the 5 Star Movement, in which it is asked that the Government strive to activate the individual Ministries in order to respond in certain times to the slopes of inspection union, I think it is a proposal of common sense. On these requests we of the 5 Star Movement will vote firmly in favour, as we will vote on motion No. 487, at the first signature of Senator Amidei, with the changes suggested by the Government. We believe that this is essential in order to continue to play our role, that is to say to be the voice of the citizens. Seeing even one vote against would be yet another alarm bell and would be inconceivable. One day I was given a book by a very dear person, entitled "The State is us," and by "us" is understood all citizens, the people, not a Government or a subject that decides for everyone. I therefore call on all my colleagues to join us in our request, in the name of democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u52	We greet teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Giacomo Leopardi" in Messina, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u55	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I thank Senator Amidei for having had the idea of tabling this motion, because he, unlike many of us, including myself, had become accustomed to a situation in which the Government occasionally responds. All those who have been to a regional council, provincial or municipal, know that the local governments, although undoubtedly having much less resources and less officials working on these things, respond. I have recently been able to verify what has been mentioned by my colleague: in other countries governments respond. Governments, regardless of what they are, must answer questions, and not do so once in a while, especially those that are convenient. The stresses that allow to make a little 'color at the end of each session, in my experience do not serve, unfortunately. I have asked perhaps four or five times for the same question, but I have never had an answer, even though I am in possession of the Government. I do not ask the government to know what its guidelines are on which policy, for which it would be a very complex response, but to know what a certain document in possession of a Ministry, not even some external branch, says. It is therefore unacceptable that the Government should not respond. And the first-signed motion by Senator Amidei, signed by many Senators of Forza Italia and various opposition groups, is very important. I still emphasize the difference in the answers between the House and the Senate. I quote only this fact: the interrogations in the House receive 69.7 percent of answers while in the Senate 19.2 percent. The percentage must be 100%; if we do not achieve this result, it is only because we cannot answer the questions put today. But this must be the trend: the government must respond. Then, of course, uncontentious questions can be answered in a laconic way or by saying that they are not within your competence. Some questions are the responsibility of the local authorities, but some of them are also asked to carry out checks on the territory. Well, I'm not talking about these, I'm talking about what's required about government acts. It will be true that in this legislature the acts of inspection union have increased, but it is also true that this is the normal consequence of the enormous increase in decree-laws, delegations increasingly blank, maximaments and confidences, which leave no room to intervene on the individual measures. We have also seen this in the newspapers in the judicial chronicle of these days: none of us had the opportunity to say yes or no about the arrangement we are talking about, but only about a congery of 700-800 paragraphs. At least you could get some information from the government. If the government does not provide it, there is yet another demonstration of its total lack of respect, not for Parliament, but for the citizens. There are some things that should be evaluated through the right of access. Then there is no point in introducing regulations. You look at me harshly, Mr President, and I understand what it means with your gaze. I'll be done in a bit. We must give adequate space to the answers. If there is no possibility of knowing the documentation that the Government has in its possession, if the Government does not answer the parliamentary questions asked several times, it is definitely no use then to present rules in Parliament that require the municipalities to put anything on line. This is the situation we have had to date. I am pleased that the Government has accepted the substantial part of our motion. We take this very strongly, even the majority senators, who I imagine will vote in favour, given that the Government has expressed a favourable opinion. The commitment is also made in front of you, colleagues in the majority, and you take it against us. The Government must fulfil its commitment to answer questions; of course, in the Conferences of the Heads of Group, the appropriate space must be given to the acts of inspection union. Senators will also have to take this into account: the question comes to you to have an answer and not just to have a piercing in the local newspaper. We will therefore have to abstain from the ultra-rheque questions or from the local authorities, limiting ourselves to presenting only what is really needed, otherwise the Government - because I am counting on its commitments - will clearly give general or even collective answers (always better than not giving them at all). Let us all take on board the commitment of the Government. Not from who knows when, but from next week, we must move on to this new phase, in which - look a little bit - questions, as is the case in all the municipal councils, in all the regional councils and in all the parliaments of Europe, are answered. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u58	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u59	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 487 (text 2), tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from Senator Amidei]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 544 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u62	COMPAGNONE (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, I would like to ask you, in addition to the agreements between the Leaders, in view of the referendum and for those who, like me, are engaged in the referendum campaign, to suspend the work of this House and resume it next Tuesday, so that those who wish to do so can carry out this duty in the territories, of course if their colleagues agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u63	If no comments are made, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u64	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-608.ana.u65	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 19 April, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.10 a.m.
