ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u4	Colleagues, I inform you that the following letter has been received: "Rome, 7 November 2016, illustrious President, I inform you that today the Court, pursuant to art. 17 of the General Regulation, accepted the resignation of lawyer Giuseppe FRIGO who, therefore, on the same date ceases from the office of Constitutional Judge. F.to Paolo Grossi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u5	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on yesterday's evening Umberto Veronesi, a world-renowned oncologist and scholar, was missing. Born in Milan on 28 November 1925, after graduating in medicine and surgery, he specializes in the research and treatment of cancer diseases: this is how he began his collaboration, as a volunteer, at the National Institute of Cancers, of which he became general manager in 1975. He contributed to the foundation of the Italian Association for Research on Cancer and the European School of Oncology; from 1985 to 1988 he also presided over the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer. He also founded the European Institute of Oncology. He was Minister of Health in the 2nd Amato Government. He was elected to the Senate in 2008. In February 2011, he resigned as Senator to serve as President of the Nuclear Safety Agency. Its intellectual contribution and extensive essay production have been oriented towards a rational approach to research, in line with its secular formation. Everyone recognizes his ability to combine medical competence with a stretch of polite lordship, proper to a man who has contributed to the care and salvation of many patients. His intellectual legacy is represented by the last message announced yesterday by the Foundation of the same name: "Go forward, for the world needs science and reason." By ideally gathering this exhortation of man, even before the scientist, the Senate of the Republic joins the pain of the family and the scientific community. I therefore call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u6	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on documents XXIII, Nos. 17, 19, 20. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the rapporteurs presented the documents. Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will mainly concern the part of the report which concerns Sicily and, on the other hand, allow me, it could not be otherwise. The scale of the crisis affecting Sicily in the waste sector is evident from the activity and report of the Commission of Inquiry. In fact, the document speaks extensively of a system of widespread and entrenched lawlessness which constitutes one of the real obstacles to the resolution of existing problems, of bad choices, of non-existent regional controls, of ramified corruption, of a framework of corruption of devastating gravity and of instruments to combat emergencies that have proved ineffective and counterproductive: they are dramatic and painful words; they are stones and are written in the report. The overall picture that emerges from the work and the investigations carried out on the Sicilian waste management system is, to say the least, extremely worrying, both for the emergence and the taking of action of the inability of the Region, in the present and in the past, to cope and manage emergencies, and (even more serious fact) for the manifest demonstration of inability in the planning and the government of the processes and choices for a renewal. The Commission reminds us that since the first declaration of the state of emergency, laid down in an order by the President of the Council of Ministers in 1999 to overcome the existence of a landfill in each municipality and to introduce a management system in accordance with national legislation, including on separate collection, the situation has not improved at all. On the other hand, I wonder why separate collection should grow if it is the same people who manage landfills? What motivation could ever motivate them to abdicate their own interests? On the contrary, since 2002, the idea of building mega incinerators has done nothing but compromise the development of separate collection, which has remained firm, and the constitution of optimal territorial environments has excluded the municipalities from the choices on management, allowing all governance to societies and people who have benefited, at the expense of local communities, from a sequence of dark processes, chained together. This has led to the development of profiles concerning the safety and health of people and territories, with landfills often not safe and with the presence of leachate which has certainly caused serious damage to vegetation and animals and, potentially, to people's health. Processes of bad management that started and supported the lacked controls by the Region and the distorted ways in which permissions were issued for private landfills. Through this modus operandi the development of illicit and malavitous paths has been nourished. The fact that it is reasonable to assume a permanent deviation of public functions in favour of private companies operating in the waste sector, as stated in the report, because the offices involved in the granting of authorisations have proved to be corrupt in addition to recent attempts to reform the set-up of competences on the procedures for the evaluation and the release of the AIA are clearly showing the overall failure of a system which, in place of good faith, transparency and the possession of adequate knowledge, has structured the joint action of the political and administrative apparatus on the interest of the party. The government in office, unfortunately, has failed to give the necessary blow to all this, so much so that at present, we read in the report: "Many Sicilian territories are invaded by the garbage and the idea of bringing waste out of the region is the most striking proof of the current crisis of the system." Yet, in the grayness and lowness of the representation of a picture that is a crescendo of desolation, the hope and the prospect of a positive turn cannot be extinguished. The hope is that the processes on waste management will be entrusted to the care of serious and competent people, who will lay at the foundation of their choices the good of this wonderful island that is Sicily and that of future generations. It is towards them, first and foremost, and towards the protection of a good, the environment, which is a common heritage, that we must demand, as a political class, a change of direction, of mentality. The renewal must primarily concern the culture of the local political, administrative and professional class but, in order to succeed, must know how to involve all the components of the system: from the illicit or unhealthy management of the waste to lose is not the individual but all the communities that make up the island and, let me add, our country. If an emergency is chronic, clearly, it can no longer be defined as such and in Sicily we pass from one emergency to another without ever being able to get out of it. So the problem is structural and must be addressed as such. The alternate role of the judiciary vis-à-vis the regional administration in bringing the waste management system back to the borders of legality must be acknowledged. However, without an overall political commitment and certainly it will not be possible to take that first step that is indispensable to outline a real change: an ordinary and realistic programming that balances the needs not to collapse the system and to structure suitable paths to solve an incandidate issue, finding in the ordinaryity and respect of legality the best way out. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the Government, I will speak on the two reports relating to the Veneto Region and the Sicilian Region, starting from Veneto. The document proposed by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle concerning the territorial situation of the Veneto Region, is the result of an interesting, delicate and certainly worthy of analysis. As is well described also in the in-depth report presented, the Veneto region is characterized by various aspects, even paradoxical or better contradictory, first of all the coexistence in a limited territory of as many as 1,500 plants for the treatment of special waste, many times subject to judicial investigations, with a commendable reality in the matter of waste disposal because one of the most virtuous in Italy. The judicial events concerned some of the most important Venetian environmental scandals: from the waste of Marghera, kneaded under the ramp of the Roncade motorway in Treviso, to the slags of the steel works disposed under the P5 parking lot of the Marco Polo airport in Venice, to the forestation of the landfill of Sant'Urbano in Padua. A first bitter assessment that comes out, therefore, is that also the North-East - and not only the South with the land of fires, as you are accustomed to thinking - is afflicted by an untransparent and unhealthy management of waste. The report describes a system that, despite fortunately the absence of organised crime highlighted by the magistrate of the anti-Mafia district of Venice, finds its roots in an attitude of widespread omerty among economic operators. It is not a coincidence that in the Veneto Region there are 485 contaminated sites among which many sites must be included in which, for long years, the companies have illegally managed special waste also dangerous and that, after the seizure of the plants by the judicial authority, they have been declared bankrupt leaving to the territorial authorities the costs, even for many tens of millions of euros, connected to the activities of removal of hazardous waste, safety and subsequent clean-up of the contaminated sites. The most worrying thing, of course, is that among the ways in which the illegal disposal of large quantities of waste was carried out, including hazardous waste, there is the practice of the so-called bubble ring, that is, of the operation of replacing the original document accompanying a refusal containing a given CER code, with a false indication. A particular mention also deserves the story of the pollution of the waters from PFAS, perfluoroalkyl substances, coming from the company Miteni di Trissino in the province of Vicenza. A serious pollution from persistent substances, the PFAS, which have now entered the food cycle, adversely affecting animal and human metabolism. The spread of these substances should therefore be prevented in all possible ways. I now come to a few comments on the report on the Sicilian Region. The document proposed by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the Sicilian Region is much more problematic. The disbelief in reading what emerged from this report is justified not only because the emergency for waste management is clearly denounced and certified, but because it is supported by the combination between waste disposal and organised crime. As a Member of Parliament, it is sad to read a clear responsibility of civil servants in the management of waste disposal, even more so in the presence of administrative inability and corruption. They are four hundred pages full of cases of inertia or default, corruption and administrative subterfuge. They are pages that sanction the failure of politics as responsible for the public good and the inevitable addition of the judiciary to a failure to manage its morals and any work ethic. The emerging situation that characterizes the Sicilian Region must make us responsible for what was a lack of will, political and administrative. Already the Sicilian commissioner management, begun in 1999, was a colossal money machine for the benefit of transporters and landfill owners. However, the emerging phase has never produced an installation and disposal network worthy of this situation, effectively burdening the ATO system in terms of cost. 27 ATOs have been set up, which have exonerated the responsibility of the municipalities: a failed operation, both from an economic and a political point of view. At this point I fully agree with the Government's decision not to prolong and give a further commission. It has been wiser to give directives and indications, even if, to date, there is still no real programming. For example, the report clearly denounces the fact that, out of ninety-eight municipal collection centres, built at the date of 2010 thanks to resources from European programming (Por 2000-06), more than 50% of these were either not authorised or not in operation. How is that possible, I wonder? There are worrying doubts as to how the collusions and the certification of Community expenditure have been carried out, given that, between the conditions necessary to ensure the eligibility of the financing, there were the executive project, with the relevant authorisations, and the operation of the installation itself. Colleagues, I think it is useless to continue with actions of mutual discharge; nor can the responsibilities be sought in the bureaucratic lengths or in the truths that each administration receives from the previous one. It is not fair and it is not appropriate, even in accordance with the work carried out by the Commission of Inquiry. Sicily is experiencing a daily emergency situation both with regard to the landfill situation and to the economic situation that has resulted from it. Mr President, my thoughts could only be bitter and angry. An anger, however - I hope - is positive, because we cannot remain silent in the face of so much inefficiency and inability. What we are looking at is a report on the truth, a truth that we have not dealt with for a long time with the right rigour. However, let us give a positive message to the Sicilian citizens, so that our assessments do not remain only on paper. In addition to the questionable malicious and illegal actions that emerge from the report, the assessment that must be made in all serenity by Parliament is that it is necessary to intervene at national level to create control tools for everything concerning waste: to authorise a disposal path that is of national interest, because the crisis of all regions on waste very often results in an increase in investigation procedures and costs, especially for subsequent Bonifications. We must ask ourselves how we can actually act in order to simplify and coordinate. This is the path that Italy must face, together with the ideas and practices of circular economy, but also on the basis of concepts of reduction of the production of waste. It is an important medium-term path, virtuous and to be pursued necessarily. However, in the dramatic nature of the immediate problem involving all regions, national action on coordination and integrated management of the waste problem must be a path to be pursued with stubbornness. If the main objective of the Government and Parliament is to protect the environment and the health of all citizens, I think the reports we are debating are an opportunity for us to open our eyes and that our vote can be an incentive to resolve the issues highlighted by the Commission. In conclusion, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, collaborators and consultants of the Commission for their reports, which I consider to be exhaustive and well-made, which - no less - point out with courage how difficult it is to manage waste and, unfortunately, also to connivance with evil. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u9	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the report points out, the SIN of Bussi sul Tirino is an example of what the Commission is highlighting in its investigations, that is, of a settlement in which, over many decades, heavy industrial activities have taken place in the field of chemistry which, having gradually come to an end, have left a contaminated site. If the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle commits the Government, as far as it is competent, to take any useful initiative in order to resolve the issues highlighted in the report, the same initiatives cannot forget, precisely to be effective in the answers, the responsibilities. Bussi is one of the forty national sites for the reclamations, that is one of the most polluted areas of Italy and Europe, home to a chemical pole since 1902 where, in the thirties of the last century, chemical weapons were also produced. For about twenty years 700,000 citizens of Val Pescara drank contaminated water and only the complaint of the associations presented in 2007 closed these wells. In 2007 the so-called mega-dissemination of poisons was discovered: an area of about 30 hectares where nearly 250,000 tons of toxic waste and industrial waste were buried, an ecological bomb on the border between the Gran Sasso Park and the Maiella Park, right in Bussi sul Tirino, Abruzzo. A story that saw, in a controversial judgment, acquitted by prescription in 2014 19 people, among former administrators, former executives and technicians of the company called to respond to environmental disaster. On Bussi the word "disaster" concerns not only what happened to the environment, but also the state of the country's institutions: this is what the Abruzzo Forum of Water Movements states, which has disclosed the report of the ARTA, which confirms the release of dozens of toxic and carcinogenic substances from all areas of the site, from the industrial area to the Tremonti landfill. We cannot forget the very heavy impact on the environment and health that continues to have the site of the former Montedison. As the Forum has denounced illustrating the contents of an official study of the Institute Zooprofilattico Abruzzo and Molise on the ecosystem of the river Aterno-Pescara, the heaviness of the impact lies in the fact that the toxic substances released for years from the site of Bussi have unfortunately entered the food chain. Mercury exceeds the legal limits in one out of three fish caught downstream of the site of Bussi sul Tirino, in the province of Pescara, where exposure to toxic substances is chronic, since the presence of the MRLs no longer occurs after purification and, therefore, could result from polluted groundwater or untreated discharges still active continuously. As has been mentioned at the time by the Abruzzo Water Forum, Bussi represents and has represented at the same time an informative disaster, because it was the citizens who brought out the documents and informed the citizens, when instead decree n. 195 of 2005 imposes for eleven years the agencies to publish online the data of environmental monitoring. It was also a technical, administrative and judicial disaster, a prototype of disaster. In short, there has been a lack of connection and loyal collaboration between the competent national bodies, the regions and the territorial authorities concerned, who give us this disaster. It is now time to cure the causes and not just the symptoms. In this respect, we will vote in favour of the joint resolution. The hope is that Parliament, which is called upon to deal with the health of its citizens, will be free this time. All of us, the expression of the population, must work to restore normality and to secure the lives of citizens, who have paid and continue to pay heavily unsavory governments like this, submitted to the multinationals on duty. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u11	Mr President, in a single speech I will deal with both reports by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle: the territorial report on the Veneto Region and the territorial report on the Sicilian Region. As for Veneto, an interesting photograph comes out, because surely it is a region that for decades has been able to treat the sector with great attention, thus drawing a sort of excellence from the territorial point of view, with a dry-humid collection system that affects 99 percent of the municipalities. But what comes out - and it is very interesting - is that the overall potential of the existing plants in Veneto is almost double that of the regional needs of the treatment of the staff. Therefore in this region it has come on a sort of industrial supply chain to the service of also other territories of the Country. This is a very interesting fact, because in fact in some cases, which are well identified and recorded, this situation determines or creates some criticalities. In fact, there are critical issues, starting from the Metropolitan City and the Province of Venice, where 240 contaminated sites are identified and where there are 439 sites to be reclaimed. This criticality comes out in the Province of Verona, where the worst situation is in an area, however beautiful, of Valpolicella, in the Municipality of Pescantina and in the so-called site of Ca' Filissine, where it has come to create a dramatic situation due to the continuous loss of an old landfill, with pollution of the groundwater and pollution of the soils, in a situation of serious abandonment by the society that managed this plant and that has poured the criticality on the communities. This criticality is also recorded in the province of Vicenza, in the province of Treviso and in the province of Rovigo, where the thermal power plant of Porto Tolle, which - as we know - is a power plant owned by ENEL and is also one of the largest in Europe, has continued for years to operate through the use of dense fuel oil. Another issue that concerns Veneto is the question of sewage sludge, which also comes from the treatment of urban waste water and which seems to be produced largely in excess of the actual needs of the market and is therefore often distributed illicitly. Now, in this overview that I wanted to summarize, although in a region that has and boasts of numbers and data definitely significant, came out of serious irregularities. However, what needs to be emphasized is that these are irregularities and sometimes offences that never see the presence of organised crime. The situation is quite different, however, in the other territorial relationship, that of the Sicilian Region. In that case we have to record an excellent work done by the Commission, a considerable amount of data acquired and a series of absolutely interesting insights, from which it emerges that in Sicily, over the decades, a confused and contradictory regulatory framework has been established, which has created a series of stratifications very often conflicting with each other and which, in fact, have never closed some chapters, but have survived complex legislative and managerial situations. There is the overlap of ATO, ARO, SRR, which creates great confusion, disastrous for the management of services, disastrous from the point of view of the financial balance of the municipalities and, in the end, disastrous for the citizens. Assumptions, clientele, new precariousness, lack of strategies, even paradoxical situations, in which the administrators of the companies in the field, the so-called ATO, characterized by the maximum of clientele and bad politics, have been, then, appointed founders of the same companies, in legal conflict with the previous role and, even, the same people have been identified as presidents of the SRRs. In my view, this is a situation of serious unfairness, sometimes illegality, characterised by economic insolvency and serious diseconomy. In addition to this a slow bureaucracy, a political guide of the Sicilian Region not authoritative, especially in the last four years, delays in the examination of the demands of the new plants or the extensions of the already existing plants, delays which, moreover, are to the detriment of both public and private companies. Simply put, the Sicilian Region, in fact, over the years has changed its address several times: it has passed from a political address of 2002 in which it tended mainly to the energy enhancement of waste. Later, changing the government, the President of the Region and the majority, we moved to another direction, that is to the valorization of the humid fractions, identifying the dry fraction, to be directed towards the recycling, and the humid one, that had to be worked, transformed and used. To this end, a regional waste plan was produced, which was implemented in a considerable budget post, about EUR 100 million, which had to be used for the construction of such facilities. In recent years there has been a new change of majority, of President of the Region and of management direction; it has come to definance the plants that had already been identified and that were used for the treatment. The regional government has asked for new emergency phases, using which they have gone in derogation from the law on the contracts; the extension of the existing landfills, even if public, and the management of contests in absolute derogation, among other things identifying commissions of contest on appointment trust of a purely political nature, with components that today seem absolutely embarrassing. This is the picture in summary. All this has created and created enormous confusion and, where there is enormous confusion, where bureaucracy does not work, where there is a political class unable to manage, there is often malpractice, documented in many investigations and also from the data of the Commission of Inquiry. Not only bad politics and bad bureaucracy, but also organised crime in some cases, are often lurking behind evil. This is the cross-section of what has happened in Sicily and of what continues to take place, in a total failure that has been sealed in the last four years of government of the current President Crocetta, and above all of the city councilors, who were responsible for this control and management activity. In order to arrive at the conclusions of my speech, I would like to appeal to the Government which I see here getting upset in this House: in my opinion, the time has come for a great responsibility. To tell the truth, we have already recorded it in recent months with a change of pace and with a high attention to Sicilian problematic and criticality, which is due to the political leadership of the Minister Galletti and to the admirable action of the offices (in particular the Director General Grillo), but it is now necessary to make the further move towards a direct assumption of responsibility by the State and a definitive commissioning towards the Sicilian Region, with the assumption by the State of all the substitute powers that the law provides and allows. Indeed, a regional government, with a political class and a ruling class that have demonstrated total inability and inadequacy, cannot continue to manage the disaster. The invitation I then make to the government is to have courage, because that is what the Sicilians are asking for today in the vast majority. We must therefore proceed to an external commissioning, which makes use of the offices of the territorially competent government, in particular the prefectures, that identify those strategies that allow to manage this phase of great difficulty and allow Sicily to progressively exit from this emergent phase, trying to keep the course straight towards an objective that must be identified and that we do not see in the state, precisely for the contradictory policies that have characterized the management of the entire sector from 2002 to today. This is in summary the political judgment we give. Once again, we are grateful to the Commission for acquiring a huge amount of data that today enables us to reach these conclusions. Of course, in the context of the work in the Commission we could go down more in detail, we could do some more in-depth work and some more focus: for example on the criminal managements or the senseless managements of the ATO (the field authorities), as on the issue of subcontracting, or on the ugly issue of public companies or in houses that, in turn, use suppliers not registered in the white lists. These are all realities that could have been deepened, but the fact that we are interested in today is to record the report in its total value and to start from these data in order to draw the necessary consequences. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u12	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u13	Mr President, for a Venetian citizen to read the Commission's report is a shock: a region is besieged by poisons, with the heavy responsibility of Giunta Zaia. We have 1,500 special waste treatment plants, but some of them also illegally accept hazardous waste, which mix and dispose of falsifying documents. Even the plants authorized for the treatment do not have a minimum percentage of recovery to be respected, with the result that then, magically, the poisons have ended up in the undersides of the highways, as happened in the Val d'Astico South: 150,000 cubic meters of poisons have been buried and, in the agricultural land are found cyanides, arsenic, lead and chromium. But it freezes the blood to read in the document that the same risk can be had for Val d'Astico Nord, as if to say that it is not an isolated phenomenon, but a system. We ask ourselves, then, who really serves the great useless works, such as the Pedemontana highway that Zaia wants, while (data to the hand) has no financial sustainability, at least net of possible dirty business. They demonstrate the opposite by making financial data public. Then we find the absurd sewage sludge that is in excess and, not finding market outlets, are scattered in agricultural land, often without the appropriate preliminary treatment. In this context, the company Coimpo di Cà Emo, near Adria, operated, where on September 22, 2014, a toxic chemical reaction killed four workers. Then there are 485 contaminated sites and, among these sites, companies operating illegally, until, discovered and seized the plants, they failed and the poisons are there. Who's paying now? The rules need to be changed: those who manage plants and landfills cannot only present a guarantee; the final cost of reclamation must also be set aside by hand in advance. Think of the landfill of Pescantina, in the province of Verona, managed by Daneco Impianti in a sense, to the point that the bottom has broken with the escape of enormous quantities of leachate. The society has abandoned everything and a small municipality finds itself facing a huge disaster. These disasters, these tragedies have a common denominator: the lack of control and it is in this regard that the long government of the North League has precise political responsibilities, because at the head of the environmental protection management was placed Fabio Fior, sentenced on October 21, 2015 for office abuse, forgery, association for delinquere for environmental crimes and sent back to trial for office abuse, false and flawed in the case of reforestation of the landfill of Sant'Urbano, cost 5 million, but not executed as due. The Commission's report makes it clear that Fior was able to do all this thanks to the political coverage he enjoyed. These disasters have a political leader: Luca Zaia and the North League. But they are not the only ones: the company Miteni, in the Valley of Agno, for decades produces dangerous perfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) associated with diabetes, thyroid diseases, increased risk of heart attack and stroke and, in the most serious cases, cancer of the kidney, testicles and other tumors. Today, as the 5 Star Movement has denounced, the layers are polluted in a huge area, which embraces more Provinces, in the most important water basin of Europe and in the most contaminated municipalities we have an increase from 10 to 30% of these diseases. In order to resolve this issue, Mr Galletti, instead of having urgent measures, tripled the tolerance values for these substances: in the United States there is the threshold of 70 micrograms per litre, in Germany of 100 micrograms per litre, in Italy there were 530 micrograms, but he has raised them to 1,500 micrograms per litre. This is the anti-politics that governs us, criminal and short-sighted if we consider that all this will bring enormous health costs in the coming years; criminal and devious if - as it seems to be proven - they know that they are dumping these costs on families. So let's think about it on December 4 when we vote for constitutional reform: is it worth giving more power to this government? Do we still want a succubus Parliament that will vote for any health cuts imposed by the ECB, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund? I say no! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u14	We greet the students and professors of the Institute of Nautical Higher Education (Nautical Higher Education) De Pinedo - Colonna di Roma, who are following our work. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission of Inquiry into the illegal activities related to the waste cycle of which I am a member has deepened the current situation of the Region of Sicily in relation to the waste cycle through the acquisition of documents and information by means of hearings and inspections. The resolution before this House today concerns the report drawn up by the Commission on the situation of waste in Sicily, which is extremely serious. In Sicily - as is very clear from the report - there is a widespread and rooted system of illegality linked to the waste cycle, which in fact represents a clear obstacle to the resolution of the problems that have gripped the Region for decades now. Sicily's waste emergency started from afar, precisely since 1999, the year of the first police station and the year in which it was tried to put an end to the disposal model based on a landfill for each municipality, replacing it with a management system in accordance with the so-called Ronchi decree. The result was quite different from expectations. If on the one hand the objective of closing small landfills was achieved, on the other hand these were replaced by four large landfills: Siculiana (Agrigento), Motta Sant'Anastasia (Catania), Mazzara Sant'Andrea (Messina) and Grotta San Giorgio (Catania), which to date form the basis of the waste management system in the Sicilian Region. Another relevant year to explain the gravity situation in my region today is 2002. In fact, starting from that year some bad choices are made: it is decided to start the realization of four megaincinerators and, at the same time, to constitute the ATO (optimum territorial scopes). The strategy was clear: on the one hand, the municipalities would no longer have to deal with waste management, since the Region would have entrusted this competence to the ATO; on the other hand, the implementation of the four megaincinerators would have allowed the closure of the waste cycle of Sicily. The constitution of the ATO has in fact deprived the municipalities of their powers, generating a very serious financial crisis, resulting mainly from the management that is not transparent and entirely in deficit carried out within the ATO, which - as stated in the conclusions of the report - are mainly used as an instrument of consensus by local policy. The decision to implement the four megaincinerators, which was suspended following some judicial investigations, resulted in a total decommitment by the municipal authorities in continuing the differentiated collection policy, resulting in a further deterioration of the waste cycle system of the Region. The framework outlined above has been deepened by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle in the previous parliamentary term, which ended with the 2010 report. As confirmed also by ANCI Sicilia during the hearing last November 3 at the Commission territory, environment, environmental assets of the Senate, from 2010 the Sicilian Region has modified the management of the integrated system of the waste, ending the management based on the 27 ATO constituted in 2002 and carrying out a new governance founded on 10 ATO (one for each Province and one for the smaller islands) and on the regulatory societies, that is the SRR (Society for the regulation of the service of waste management). Since 2012, the Region has introduced a derogation to the maximum number of 10 ATOs and, therefore, has increased from 10 to 18 ATOs: one for the Provinces of Enna, Siracusa, Ragusa and smaller islands; two for the Provinces of Messina, Trapani, Agrigento and Caltanissetta; three for the Provinces of Palermo and Catania. Six years after the 2010 reform, we have reached the paradox that the ATOs, which initially declined, not only continue to exist, but have also duplicated the functions with the distinction between founders and commissioners of regional appointment to whom management functions are entrusted. The legacy left by the choices made since 2002, today, is found in the fact that many Sicilian territories are invaded by waste and the idea of taking waste out of the Region testifies to the total crisis of the system. In the summer just passed, then, the explosion of the umpteenth waste emergency occurred, during which new provisions have been dictated by the regional government that, in fact, have involved for many municipalities the transfer of the undifferentiated fraction of the waste in landfills located also several hundred kilometers away from those previously identified. The report drawn up by the Commission, which covers the third phase of the Commissariat, from 2013 to 2016, clearly shows a very serious and worrying corruption framework, in which the infiltration of Mafia organisations takes place at a later stage and in a more subtle way, i.e. in the cold rental, subcontracting, recruitment imposed and often carried out within the framework of the ATO, scams and through corruption. The illegality connected to the waste cycle, moreover, finds fertile ground in the lack of programming and control, tools that the Sicily Region has used until today. Given that the entire waste cycle is based on maxiscarics and taking into account the high pollution of neighbouring areas, the regional government has questioned the work of the previous administrations and implemented a transparency operation through the verification of the administrative procedures with which permissions were granted to landfill private municipal waste in operation and through the verification of the tariffs applied by them. In addition, it has decided to transfer competence to the assessment and issue of the integrated environmental authorisation (IAA) on landfills, from the Department of Land and Environment to the Department of Energy and utilities. Here was found a real ostracism by the Department of the Environment, which was supposed to transmit the documentation to the Department of Water and Waste, which had been entrusted with the new competence in the investigation and release of the AIA. This has given rise to a very alarming picture, a picture of corruption of devastating gravity, consumed in a pivotal office in the field of waste, such as that responsible for granting authorisations: facts of such seriousness from which it can be assumed that a permanent deviation of public functions in favour of private undertakings operating in the field of waste can be assumed. Three other alarming data emerge from the Commission's activities: the first concerns certain companies which, while being involved in judicial investigations, continue their waste disposal work; The second, again with regard to the infiltration of organised crime, concerns the creation and control of illegal landfills on Sicilian territory. These shipments of waste have been made possible, of course, by the lack of adequate controls on the part of the bodies responsible, since it is not conceivable that large quantities of waste can circulate without any kind of control on the Sicilian territory, and then reach its destination on an unauthorized site. The third point that must be taken into account, Mr President, is that there is no real competition between the lobby of those who want the mega-incinerators and the lobby of those who have the management of landfills, because in both cases the same groups are present, so much so that in the report itself there is explicit talk of differentiation of illicit investment. The report highlights the need to carry out a programme for waste cycle management so that the system in Sicily is not completely collapsed. In conclusion, a meritorious consideration must be given to the work of the judiciary in Sicily, where, even after the application of real precautionary measures on large installations and landfills, it has assumed on itself the burden, together with the administrative bodies, of bringing the management of the plants back into legality. Mr President, the picture described above shows the lack of planning by the Region of Sicily, which has dealt with the problem of the waste cycle, and this has certainly not helped to solve the problem. I therefore hope that the Government will intervene - as it is also written in the resolution - so that in Sicily too we can arrive at a framework of planning and legality indispensable for efficient and effective management of the waste cycle, in collaboration with all the administrations and bodies concerned. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u16	The joint debate is closed. I inform the Presidency that the following motions for resolutions have been received: No 100, tabled by Senator Puppato, on document XXIII, No 17; No 200, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and other Senators, on document XXIII, No 19; No 300, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other Senators and No 301, submitted by Senators Puppatoto and Arrigoni, on document XXIII, No 20. Senator De Petris has signed resolutions Nos. 100, 200 and 301. The motions for resolutions have been distributed. The Secretary of State for the Environment and Protection of the Land and the Sea, Dr Degani, has the floor. I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u17	President. - The debate is closed. 100, 200 and 301. The Government's opinion is, on the contrary, on motion for a resolution No 300.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u18	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u21	ZIZA (CoR). Mr President, the Group of Conservatives and Reformists will vote against the resolution based on the report on Veneto. It is, as far as we are concerned, a report that draws an alarming and misleading picture of a virtuous Region, as we believe it to be the Veneto Region. As the latest ISPRA report on waste confirms, in Veneto there is the highest percentage of separate collection, which is 67.6 percent, which even has Treviso as the leading municipality. Separate collection even reaches 81.9 percent. This is an exceptional figure which represents about twice the national average, as ISPRA points out, which is 45%. It is very far from other regions, such as Calabria and Sicily, with a lot of separate collection below 20%. Italy is a country with more than 60 million tourists per year: a factor, this, which somehow complicates and weighs down the system of collection and management of waste. It comes to the paradox of highlighting how a criticality, with a negative aspect, the presence in Veneto of 494 public purification plants, of 1,500 waste treatment plants that use the latter to produce energy and recover raw material, because this - the report argues - is a large number and, therefore, the ARPA could not proceed to the controls. Furthermore, the report does not do justice to a region which has set up an industrial model for waste management; an example of the famous circular economy which has even anticipated Community rules at some stage. The text is based on individual negative cases, carrying out a senseless generalization, in an arbitrary way to attack - as already said - politically that Region. There is talk of widespread illegality, insufficient controls, a lack of sanctions, bringing - for example - as a litmusol map, the story of a single official from Veneto who was inquisited. On the other hand, we agree with the report on the waste cycle in Sicily and we will vote in favour of it. The situation in Sicily is quite different from that in Veneto. To date the result that we are in Sicily is that the municipal landfills are closed, but four larger landfills have taken their place - and I say four - for the most part managed by private individuals with permits to say the least questionable. We are even talking about 27 ATO; and the latter is seen in a very clear way that are used more for customer recruitment. What emerges from the report is that we are faced with a system of widespread illegality, where fertile criminal and client associations find ground, even within the Sicilian institutions, where there is still a serious programming, so much so that the Ministry of the Environment wanted to continue in the management of the commissioner. In short, what we have been able to observe is that only opacity and lack of controls emerge, infiltrations of a criminal system that passes from the regional administration to the municipalities that, against bans - for example - for the assignment of the waste collection service, see participation only one enterprise, as if there had been a partition at the table of the work of the municipalities that ban the contests. The Palermo Public Prosecutor confirms the deviation of public functions in favour of private individuals, in particular for the release of AIA compared to the landfills that we mentioned earlier. And there are many problems which we, as the Commission, have in some way made our own and raised. Also the DAC identifies all the critical issues that we have found: conflict of interests, professional assignments assigned without qualification, progression of careers linked not to the ability of the civil servants, as to the fact to put themselves at the service of the strong powers. In essence, Sicily is zero year from the point of view of waste and we also wondered whether this is the right Commission or whether other Commissions should I'll take care of it. For these reasons and for others included in the report, our vote on the report will be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u24	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group will vote against the territorial report on the Veneto Region proposed by the Commission of Inquiry. We believe that this time the Commission has gone beyond the boundaries of objectivity and impartiality that should characterize it, rather transforming the document into a political attack against the Veneto Region and its Government. It is a badly set relationship, which is a lack of superficiality, which sometimes also resorts to derogatory tones, which confuses the reader in 455 pages of text and which takes as an example the most virtuous Region in the matter of waste management - and not only solid urban waste - and presents it as the worst paradigm of the Italian territory. Yet, as the report itself points out and as confirmed by the latest ISPRA report on municipal waste, the highest percentage of separate collection of waste was achieved from Veneto with a percentage of 67.6 percent, with the head of the province of Treviso which, in 2014, exceeded 80%. These percentages almost double the national figure of the last ISPRA report, which stands at 45.2%, against shameful regional data such as 18.6 in Calabria and 12.5 in Sicily, the latter region today object of the other report to our examination. Let's not forget, moreover, that the Veneto Region has a GDP among the highest in the country and records over 60 million annual tourist presences that - we know very well - impact negatively on the separate collection. There are 494 public purification plants and 1,500 treatment plants using waste for energy and material recovery. The paradox is that the Commission's report criticises this large number of installations because it would prevent ARPA from carrying out effective controls. It's about lightning forcings, a clear exaggeration. The report does not do justice to a region that, over the years, has been the example of the entrepreneurial structure in the management of waste towards a circular economy that has also anticipated Community norms; a circular economy which, this week, is also the subject of the fair Ecomondo of Rimini, in which many Presidents of Regions and local administrators speak vainly, because far light years from having minimally set and persecuted it on their territory. 10:38 a.m. (Follow Arrigoni). The text is based on individual cases to politically attack the Region using inappropriate expressions. There is talk of widespread illegality, insufficient controls and punitive deficiencies which constitute the litmusol map of a regional manager. It used, that is, a derogatory tone to describe the story of an official - certainly serious, but isolated and on which, dear colleague Endrizzi, President Zaia immediately collaborated with the prosecutor of the Republic - to represent the Veneto Region as a context of widespread illegality. Are we really talking about the Veneto Region in this report, or about Sicily, Calabria or Campania? There are then statements of influence of the political body on the environmental assessments of the plants and lists the distortions and circumventions of the norms that normally take place on the market presenting them as the real problem of Veneto. With regard to the Miteni affair and the pollution from PFAS, dear colleague Endrizzi, you will find that, in the absence of the table limits that the State has not imposed, the Region has had an approach to the problem that has been greatly appreciated. [[Comments of Senator Endrizzi]] With regard to the use of waste in the Valdastico motorway base, we stress that this is a practice commonly used and permitted by existing Community legislation. The Commission's report, however, does not limit itself to highlighting the excesses of the specific case - on which, before criticizing, the possible compatibility with the natural fund should be checked - but, on page 28, it also extends criticism to the rules of the requirements of mixing and cessation of refusal, laid down by the European Union and regularly approved by Parliament, and on the validity of the methods to be used for carrying out the disposal test for the purpose of verifying compliance with the environmental compatibility requirements. Only rules, the latter, remained unchanged since 1998, pursuant to the Ministerial Decree of 5 February 1998 implementing the Ronchi Decree. Therefore, the criticism of the Commission's report also extends to the democratic way in which laws are passed, probably because the report's extensor did not agree at the time of the vote. With regard to the export of WEEE to Hong Kong, India and Malaysia, the report makes no mention of the fact that it is a worldwide phenomenon and that, next to Venice, also other ports such as Bari, Naples, Ancona, Civitavecchia, Salerno, Taranto, La Spezia, Pozzallo, Genoa, Gioia Tauro, Livorno and Catania are involved in various investigations for the export of waste and that the transit of WEEE through Italy takes place, mainly, because our country is considered the one with the less rigid legislation in this matter. Finally - and I still want to denounce it here - it is the publication of confidential news, evidently released from the palace, about the report still at that time not approved by the Committee of Inquiry. Taking advantage of only a few parts of the report, it was evident the aim of denigrating and defaming a region that has the primacy of excellence in the separate collection and recovery of matter and energy from waste, to negatively influence public opinion. It was a terrible political attack to discredit President Zaia and the government forces of the Region. For all these reasons, the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group will vote strongly against the approval of the territorial report on the Veneto Region of the Commission of Inquiry on the waste cycle. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Marin]] The Group of the North League will vote in favour of the territorial report on Sicily. The report highlights all, many, too many problems, criticalities and real pathologies that for years have compromised the sector of waste management in the Region. Widespread and entrenched lawlessness has hindered the resolution of problems, finding fertile ground in the ineffectiveness of the answers of the ruling political class in turn. The shameful lack of a regional waste management plan is - colleagues - the basis for overcoming the emergency and re-entering ordinary management and avoiding tenders by way of derogation. The forecast of four mega incinerators, never realized, that favored the disposal in landfills; the deficiencies of the separate collection, that is at only 12.5%, against - I repeat - 67.6 percent of the Veneto; the allocation of large public funds to companies that have signed pacts of integrity with the Region, but that are not recorded in the white lists of prefectures, demonstrate the inefficiency of the authorities of government and control. Added to this is the very serious financial crisis resulting from the deficit and non-transparent management of the twenty-seven ATOs, which were an instrument that responded to a customer logic in the hands of the policy for the control of consent. In particular, some decision-making decisions have penalized companies throughout the country, who have worked in the waste sector of the Region and who still fail to recover their claims. And, among them, many will die of excess credit not collected. And what about appointments in crucial places for the management of waste of incompetent and completely foreign subjects in the sector. The possibility of dealing with the four incinerators remains to be explored, the failure of which seems to have been the result of agreements between the political and administrative worlds, the economic world and criminal associations in order - on the one hand - to promote and continue the disposal activities in derived landfills and - on the other hand - to create the conditions to be able to transport waste out of the region. Too convenient! Unfortunately, regulatory stratification and the cumbersome bureaucratic apparatus have allowed corrupt officials to issue easy authorization measures that facilitate entrepreneurs by feeding a corrupt system. As the Commission of Inquiry has pointed out, the infiltration of organised mafia crime into the waste sector, at all levels, is mainly taking advantage of administrative shortcomings, through the control of procurement and activities ancillary to the waste sector itself, such as transport, maintenance of means and supplies. In conclusion, I want to stigmatize the ambiguous behaviour of the Government and the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea that, in the face of the emergency waste of the Island, if on the one hand has not renewed the Commissariat of the Region, on the other has granted the possibility to the president Crocetta to sign a new order containing a series of derogations both on the treatment of the undifferentiated waste, and on the authorizations for the disposal in landfill, and, finally, on the construction of the plants and the adaptation of the regional plan. It is therefore appropriate to report from the Commission of Inquiry, which is hoped to be an impetus for the Government and for the Region in order to resolve the serious issues highlighted. Finally, the Group of the North League will also vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the report on the site of national interest of Bussi sul Tirino. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Baptist.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u27	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to announce that my Group will be voting in favour of motions for resolutions Nos. 100, 200 and 301 and I am going quickly to explain the reasons for the vote and to make some reflections. The motion for a resolution and the report on the situation in Veneto rightly highlight the two profoundly conflicting realities which - incredibly - coexist within the region itself. On the one hand there is the Veneto virtuous, that of the Municipalities and the communities that have become reference point of other Municipalities of the Country, where there are very high and significant percentages of separate collection and has been done a great job also in order to grow the entire chain of recovery and recycling. Let us just think of the fact that in those realities the percentage of separate collection is close to 65%. On the other hand, in the Region there are also - unfortunately - widespread illegality and a system of illicit disposal of special waste (dangerous and not), which we believe has become further aggravated, especially during the long crisis that has hit also the reality of small and medium-sized companies in Veneto. This widespread illegal activity is in fact very present in industrial areas and there are entrepreneurial realities that, behind an apparent normality, actually move through a system in many aspects illegal. 10:48 a.m. (De PETRIS follow-up). In our view, the report rightly highlights the two sides present in the same region, which - I repeat - presents, on the one hand, elements of virtuosity in the management of the waste cycle and, on the other hand, a very widespread illegal system that concerns a considerable number of companies. And this, which is clearly stated in the report, is perhaps linked to the fact that many small and medium-sized enterprises, at the time of the crisis and economic difficulties, have made a choice of simpler and easier gains, seeking solutions that would allow the disposal of hazardous and special waste through systems that are certainly not legal. The other question concerns an absolutely incredible reality, and we dare say dramatic, that of Sicily. Many referred to the case of the four incinerators and the most recent one relating to the verification of permits for private landfills. Such events tell us how non-existent regional controls are and are evidence of how ramified corruption and the relationship with organised crime are in this area. We are thinking only of the agreements signed for the construction of the four mega-incineration plants, which have not been withdrawn even after the European Commission's intervention. These events that have characterized and marked the issue of incinerators and also those related to permits tell us of a modus operandi absolutely illegal, illegitimate and for a large part criminal. Therefore, as well as the environment, the entire waste management system of the Region is polluted, as the report points out in various passages. It should also be said that the main dysfunction and responsibility for this are represented by the inability of the Sicilian Region, combined with the lack of political and administrative will, to prepare a serious planning of the integrated waste cycle. The lack of programming therefore corresponds to an approach constantly based on emergency, contingency and approximation. Not by chance, it is not only an inability to manage, but it is precisely thanks to the emergency and to these methods of management that the criminal grip and even the illegal take-up of all management has been able to increase to an extent. Separate collection, treatment of undifferentiated waste, permits for landfilling, adaptation of the regional plan and even the issue of incinerators through a series of derogations, which exclude - among other things - almost all local communities from decision-making. So Sicily is emblematic of the total failure of the commissioner system of the emergency management of the waste cycle. We could also make these assessments for other cases, but I believe that in Sicily the failure of this system has really reached a level that is appalling and unbearable, to the detriment of citizens and the environment. On this issue too, we welcome the work done by the Commission and we will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. With regard to the story of the SIN of Bussi sul Tirino, the report rightly highlights the limit and criticality of the commissioner's management, despite the fact that the management of this site began even in 2007. But obviously that's exactly what doesn't work, this type and this mode of management. The report tells us that the situation of contamination is unresolved, that different activities overlap and that the potential impact - this is the most worrying element - of contamination on populations is very high and not adequately explored with epidemiological investigations (the trial and the entire criminal part unfortunately know what conditions they are in). Moreover it is absolutely necessary, even on the story of the site of Bussi sul Tirino, to assess further how many other resources are needed to complete the activities of characterization, the safety and the reclamation. This story, like many others that concern our country and the negative industrial heritage - that is how much these activities have left on the territory - should show us how little more is invested on the Bonifice and the safety of the contaminated territories. We shall therefore also vote in favour of the motion for a resolution No 200, which concerns the Bussi sul Tirino site. [[Applause from Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u30	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, in a brief speech I confirm the support of the parliamentary group to which I belong on the motions for resolutions before the Senate today. In particular, however, I must add a few more elements to the motion for a resolution on the Sicilian region, precisely because of some of the arguments that have been developed in this House by some of my previous colleagues. In Sicily we must register a system whose faults and responsibilities are not objectively attributable only to those who today have the political leadership of the Region; there is a sum of errors and difficulties, which have created, among themselves, a sort of synergy to be strengthened, which has exploded in recent years. If anything, the main fault of President Crocetta, who today is the political leader of the Region, is that he has not assumed in first person, from the first moment, the direct responsibility of the entire sector, instead entrusting it to councillors who, then, have demonstrated neither the abilities, nor, above all, in my opinion, the balance in order to try to reverse the course in such a disastrous situation. In this confused situation, I would like to disagree completely with the intervention that I have heard, explained by the colleague of the League here, because the only positive element is the attempt of the Ministry of the Environment, which for a year now, through the preventive concert, has determined absolutely precise and restricted orders that do not allow any discretion neither to the Region, nor to the operators of the system, whether public or private, and in any case established rules. However, in recent months there has been a positive figure, namely the increase in separate collection and the decrease in volumes treated. These are undeniable data. I am convinced that this direction must see - as I said in my previous speech - an even stronger responsibility of the national government and the Ministry of the Environment. I was hoping that the government representative would listen to my speech and perhaps respond to it in response; however, strong for our reasons, we will continue to support them in all fora. To conclude, the Sicilian situation is a very difficult one, which, as I said, stratifies inefficiencies and sometimes bad things for decades. It is clear that it is not all inefficiency and evil; there are leopard-stained situations, but, precisely for this reason, the data of the report today at our examination basically constitute a good basis for study, verification and verification and I believe that - lively - the responsible bodies, in particular the prosecutors of the Republic, who can institutionally intervene in this field, from there can draw a series of absolutely dirigent evaluations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u33	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, the 5 Star Movement will vote yes to motions for resolutions Nos. 100, 200 and 301 and not to No. 300, at the first signature of Senator Compagnone, even if we share the premises and considerations, but not the request to the Government, which explicitly asks to provide for a commissionership of the Sicilian Region. With regard to motion for a resolution No 301 personally, but also on behalf of my Group, I do not agree with the changes made to the first version that had been filed, especially with regard to the agreement on the adoption of the new order of the President of the Sicilian Region, defined as a contingent and urgent one, No 5 of 7 June 2016: there was a variation that in my opinion is substantial, because it tends to give a different view of the desirability and purpose of this order, which, in the first version, was seen as a derogation measure, or in any case of urgency that did not appear in the ordinary line. It removes all the part that refers to urgency and reiterates that, unlike the past, the order, who knows why, will solve the problems, and it is not the world of dreams that I have spoken about before, but certainly a realistic document. Despite this, we will vote in favour of Resolution 301, because, in conclusion, what is important is the work that the Commission has done on the report and the appeal to the Government is to take legislative measures in this regard as well. The Commission's studies also serve this purpose, to reflect on the regulatory needs, what is needed and what needs to be changed in our laws. The Commission has worked well, as well as the Commissions of previous legislatures have done, and it has blackened out what are, in every case, the great problems of our country. Yet, it seems that you can never get out of these documents with solutions, even if they appear evident in everyone's eyes. What can be seen from these three motions for resolutions which refer to the reports on Veneto, the SIN of Bussi on Tirino and the Sicilian Region? As far as Veneto is concerned, there is a very high environmental contamination, of all the plates, in densely inhabited areas. This leads to the need for greater control, as in many other reports, where this legislature is heading in the direction of less control which is being sold as simplification. Increased control of installations is needed and greater financial, instrumental and human support must be given to the environmental agency system in order to be able to carry out the necessary controls. We need to create a national environmental police force, (we saw how we ended up with the State Forestry Corps). The 1,500 special waste treatment plants that are in the Veneto Region have shown that, even there, the use of false accompanying documents and the attribution of CER codes other than those due is vast: the classic bubble ring that we well know about the Campania Region. It doesn't matter that there are no camorristic infiltrations here, of the 'ndrangheta or of the mafia, or that there isn't even an organized crime, because the result doesn't change. It is necessary, from a regulatory point of view, to create clearer boundaries - as the motion for a resolution also says - between the treatment of waste for recovery and treatment for disposal. We must also define the end of waste better, because there are many doubts about it and many materials that are in practice waste are then treated as non-waste. In the Veneto Region there are 485 contaminated sites for illegal management of special and dangerous waste; however, when then the companies that have managed so badly these sites are seized, they fail and therefore we are in a position to not be able to provide for the Bonifiche because the territorial authorities are lacking the necessary resources. For this reason, as I have already said on other occasions, it is necessary to establish in a clear and clear way for all the impacting activities a compulsory provision, bound - I would say armored - of sums that are proportional to the type of production and the estimated risk of contamination and aimed exclusively at the restoration of the environment and the reclamation, even if only in the phase of disposal. I am referring to a fund of which we must give confidence and certainty even simply during requests for integrated environmental authorisation, renewal and extension and - I repeat - for all the impacting productive activities. As for the analysis of the site of national interest (SIN) of Bussi sul Tirino, let's say clearly that it does not deny any of these reflections, indeed it is very clear that in Italy the rule of the "polluter pays" has not been implemented, of which we are talking since the eighties; I repeat instead that the most polluter must pay. It is necessary that those who take over in the purchase of a company or in the management of a site, in the act of taking over must be able to bear, with the due but obligatory investigations, all the burdens, even those eventual ones that will be found later, if he has carried out wrong assessments. In my opinion this is a fundamental obligation: it is provided for in the sale of all goods (for a dwelling or a car), but not for a polluted site. A couple of other issues are very clearly evident. First of all, the Commissions and all the exceptional and urgent derogation measures not only fail to resolve the issues for which they have been envisaged, but also highlight the increase in maladministration, environmental pollution and malavitous infiltration. We said this on the way to Campania before we came here, and yet urgent measures are still being taken. It is also very clear, as we have said so many times, how it is evident throughout the territory that the corruption of the public administration is very high and widespread throughout the country, crime (organized or not, with mafia infiltrations or not) is the real cancer to be fought; however, without a true reform of the judicial system, that this Government will insist on delaying, not wanting to do, not to let go, we will never get out of it. It is true that last year Law 68, which is producing good results, was adopted with great difficulty, but that alone is not enough. The DASPO must be set up for convicted persons, i.e. foreclosure of any relationship with the public administration for anyone who has been convicted of crimes against the public administration. It is necessary to introduce the provocative agent and to revise the prescription in particular: if you do not want to stop it from being sent to court, at least it is stopped at first instance, also in order to avoid that the courts are crowded by appeals only instrumental to reach the prescription (we know that in the Italian system the second and third grade cannot be worsening for the condemned appealer). The crime of self-laundering, the crime of voting for political-mafia exchange and putting a stop to corruption in public procurement, must be strengthened by reviewing also the white list system. It is also necessary to strengthen the National Anti-corruption Authority, which at the moment, for an article in the so-called "Madia" decree, we find that it cannot have its own and necessary financial resources. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u36	PUPPATE (PD). Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking all those who have spoken in today's and yesterday's debates on the three reports. I would also like to thank the technicians and magistrates who are following us in this extensive work of analysis of the Italian territory that sees us debate today. These are three objectively very different situations, but all of them present some shortcomings that the motions for resolutions stress in order to succeed in bringing these lands, these Regions as a whole, back to a situation of legality carried out in the field of waste recycling and therefore in the overall management of the waste cycle, in order to arrive at that circular economy that should become our highest form of investment in the industrial and environmental sector together. It must be said that the first motion for a resolution to which I refer, No 200 on Bussi sul Tirino, stems from a centuries-old contamination of industrial activities for over a century with a chemical pole which has produced what is worse from the point of view of spills and landfills. Chemistry is a heavy sector that has left a contaminated site that the local authorities have not been able to put in full safety so far, although there have been some progress. On this point too, however, the report aims to highlight the shortcomings that have occurred over the past few years and in some of these decades in local policy, national policy and also in relations between individuals, particularly between businesses and politics. There was a police station with regard to Bussi sul Tirino. How many times have we talked about the relationship of poor cooperation, the overlapping of competences, the public presence in a logic more procedural method than the result when we talked about relations with the public administration? The service conferences instead of solving produced simply an extension of the process and not the acceleration expected. What we therefore hope - and we commit in this regard the Government that is working well in this area - is to recover lost time, reaching a rapid identification of the actions to be carried out for the definitive safety and reclamation of an area that, I would like to remind you, affects 11 municipalities, therefore it is very vast. With regard to motion for a resolution No 301 on Sicily, it is partly true what Mr Arrigoni says. One thing must be made clear: the Commission which we have the honour to represent today has never made discounts to anyone, has not looked at who was the political manager, and this is demonstrated by the resolutions we have already adopted in the Senate. I am sorry that an exception has been made for the Veneto part; then I will explain that this exception has no sense of existence. Returning to Sicily and to motion for a resolution No 301, it is true that the situation continues over the decades and still sees - ahinoi - a devastating mafia infiltration: we listened to it with our ears going to that territory and also hearing within the Commission the courageous mayors of this territory and some sensitive regional administrators. Well, this mafia infiltration has made possible the realization of unfair landfills of systemic and vast proportions, often without any authorization and almost always in the immediate availability and ownership of the cosche. Trafficking of large waste, lack of controls by the bodies responsible, threats, cold rents, subcontracting, improper recruitment, scams and corruptions: a systemic inefficiency of an overall situation that also sees the deep lack of purification and, among other things, Italy as a Community sanction for this reason. Also in this case we are not and cannot be negative to the bottom, because an activation is being made visible and we want to give again, in time (I repeat, in time), an authorization to proceed to the Region, as recently it has been done by the Ministry, previewing the necessity to monitor immediately the realization of what produced. Let me now turn to the issue of Veneto: I just want to say in brief that what is written in the report outlines... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u37	Colleagues, lower the buzz, because Senator Puppato cannot speak and overpower your voice. It's a rough morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u38	PUPPATE (PD). Thank you, Madam President. The activities of an entire environmental department - not a single official of an environmental department - and of two environmental departments are discussed. We know how the matter is going today: we have had councilmen convicted of corruption, employees and executives convicted of false ideology, corruption, association with criminals and omission of office acts. For fifteen years we have had a great gap, which is highlighted in the report of the Commission of Inquiry, which is very dense with data and not with accusations, which highlights a system of evil, which has grown and which - ahinoi - has been characterized by some fundamental elements. The first is a gap in the verification interventions by the local ARPA, caused by a shortage of staff and the impossibility often of being able to proceed. The second element is an absolutely absent public administration, when it is not conniving in the waste sector, in particular with the companies that had joined this sector, but with the sole aim of doing business, without environmental and health concerns. The proven proof is that as much as 30 percent of the next emanations that CIPE will make available for the reclamations, equal to 800 million euros, is destined to Veneto, that is to such a virtuous Region. If everything that Mr Arrigoni said were true, it would not be justified to have to spend 80 million euros, for a pollution of 170 square kilometers, for pollution by perfluoroalkyl substances, of which the CNR has been noticed, in an investigation on behalf of the Ministry of 2009, then solved in 2013, nor would it be understood why we should spend 65 million euros, as a Ministry, for the safety and reclamation of one of the worst landfills in Italy, with 30 meters of percolate, that is the landfill of Ca' Filissine, in the municipality of Pescantina. Still, it would not be known why today we should allocate another 86 million euros for the share relative to the reclamations of Porto Marghera. It is therefore clear that the environmental situation in Veneto, with regard to this specific sector, is extremely critical and needs to be greatly improved. How do you do that? The answer applies to all three reports. We have identified three fundamental elements within the motions for resolutions. First of all, in order to deal with the situation that has occurred too often in the lack of landfills, the absence of ownership, it would be appropriate to provide for the release of adequate trust policies, which are issued today, but are not at all adequate - there is no time to explain the reason, but it has been demonstrated - by companies and bodies that manage the facilities and landfills. We also believe that the provision by the same companies of shares of the consideration paid by the companies that grant the waste is mandatory, in order to build a reserve fund, which addresses the subsequent operations, as a guarantee for citizens and local communities, to secure the polluting sites. Again, as Mrs Nugnes rightly said, in order to avoid the proliferation and continuation of systematically illegitimate behaviors, which we have seen to be of great social and health danger, it is necessary to include within the legislation on eco-reactors the seizure by equivalent, considered by the Forces of the Order, the judiciary, and the mayors a useful instrument, which goes to implement the legislation recently approved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Puppato. PUPPATE (PD). I conclude with the last need that has been identified in the motions for resolutions, namely the theme of a timely regulatory reference for recovery treatment, disposal treatment and end of waste. At the end of all this my thanks go to the magistrates Battarino and Castellano, to President Bratti and to all the colleagues of the Commission, for the great work that is continuing to do, for wanting to put the whole of Italy, nobody excluded, from North to South, in the condition of living the best this great and important environmental system that has to do with the cycle of waste. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u39	We greet and welcome the students and teachers of the Istituto Tecnico Industriale Statale (Ettore Majorana) in Cassino. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u40	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions which will be put to the vote in the order of presentation for each document. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for the vote to be taken simultaneously by electronic means for subsequent motions for resolutions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 100 tabled by Senators Puppato and De Petris on document XXIII, No 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 200. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Arrigoni and other senators to vote by a simultaneous ballot on motion for a resolution No 200, relating to document XXIII, No 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 300. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Compagnone and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion for a resolution No 300 on document XXIII, No 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 301. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 301 tabled by Senator Puppato and other senators on document XXIII, No 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u43	CUOMO (PD). Madam President, I wanted to correct my vote. I accidentally pressed the abstaining button during the vote on motion No 200. My vote was in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u44	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 119, 1004, 1034, 1931 and 2012, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the general debate was over and the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government took place. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u45	Madam President, Amendment 01.101 deals with a fairly important subject on which the rapporteur himself referred. In fact, it concerns the possibility of giving life to the system of protected areas also respecting all international agreements. This is not a trivial issue, but in our opinion it is an intervention which aims to clarify the general aims of the law. There is also an international and Community legal framework within which our system of protected areas should rightly be placed, and therefore also the draft law, with particular reference - and this is the meaning of the amendment - to acts relating to the protection of biodiversity and the conservation of natural habitats which also concern international conventions and agreements. As the rapporteur knows perfectly well, we consider Amendment 1.0.100 to be of particular importance. In fact, we believe that it is absolutely essential to ensure that a three-year programme on protected areas can be created, which is obviously also present in the text, but which would also have adequate resources with this amendment. This, in fact, is one of the themes for the attention of all those involved in the system of protected areas. In fact, only a prospect of relaunching investments in the conservation and protection of the natural habitats of the protected areas system could ensure an adequate relaunch of the parks and protected areas system itself. We have also identified financial cover, which is not trivial and is not only used to cover, which would be obtained through an increase in excise duties on energy raw materials with the highest impact in terms of climate change emissions. This is an amendment that we consider particularly important because the effort we would like to make to relaunch the system of protected areas, if the three-year programming is not adequately supported by a financial plan and therefore by an adequate allocation of resources, would once again risk transforming an operation that would be at zero cost into a counterproductive measure for the system of protected areas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u46	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1,101 which also provides for the regions to be able to establish protected marine areas - not leaving this prerogative to the central state alone - in order to avoid double management and double burden on the state budget for sea areas adjacent to regional protected areas. I would also like to point out to the rapporteur two similar amendments, 1.06 and 1.16, which essentially provide for the replacement of words: "Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research" with the following: "National Network System for Environmental Protection" to update the draft law after the recent entry into force of Law No 132 of 28 June 2016 on the reordering of the national network system of environmental agencies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u47	Madam President, I would like to outline the agenda for G1,102, which calls on the Government, even if in a late form, to convene the third National Conference on Protected Areas, since the first two have already been convened and carried out, thanks to environmental associations, in 1997 and 2002. These conferences represented important moments of discussion, which called for important topics on the protection and protection of biodiversity. In fact, the associations, during the discussion of the amendment of the single text on parks, had urged both the Ministry and the Regions to convene this third conference in order to discuss these variations but this was not granted. So we, even if very late, since the measure will pass in these days, ask for it to be convened and to take place, in order to develop all the problems and all the future objectives regarding our protected areas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u48	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u49	I am against all the amendments, except for 1,102 and 1,103, which are called for to be reworded in the end by adding the words "biodiversity" to them. The opinion was in favour of agendas G1.100, G1.101, G1.102, and opposed to agendas G1.103 and amendment 1.0.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u50	I give my assent to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u51	I would ask Senator Nugnes whether he accepts the rapporteur's proposal for rewording Amendment 1,103. NUGNES (M5S). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u52	Let us move on to amendment 01.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. NUGNES (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.100, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 01.101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.101, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,101, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,102 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.103 (text 2), tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,104, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,105, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,106 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,107, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,108 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,109, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators, identical to amendment 1,110, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1,111, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,112 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,113, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,114, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. NUGNES (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,114, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,115, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1,116 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1,100 will not be put to the vote. Senator Ruta, do you insist on voting on the agenda G1,101? RUTA (PD). Yes, Madam President, I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.101, tabled by Senator Ruta. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.103, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u55	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to say that we were wrong in the vote on Article 1: the vote of the Group of the North Legacy is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u56	We take note of that, Senator Arrigoni. Let us move on to amendment 1.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u57	Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to inform you that the vote of our component on Article 1 was abstaining. I would like to explain the additional amendment 2.0.100, which is, in our view, an amendment that is very important to the system of protected areas, because it would demonstrate that the establishment of protected natural areas can be an opportunity not only for the purpose of conservation, but also for the development of sustainable economic activities and the increase in youth employment, which is a real benefit, as we can see where there is experience in this regard. The amendment simply aims to introduce a permanent tax facility for the start, at the initiative of young people under 40 years of age, of economic activities in some sectors that can trigger virtuous synergies for the management of protected areas and the promotion of sustainable activities. It also specifically concerns municipalities whose territory is included, in whole or in part, within the system of protected areas. The coverage that we had identified (and on which we will see what opinion the 5th Commission will have expressed) is obtained by an increase of 50% of the royalties deriving from the activities of extraction of hydrocarbons at sea, as had already been requested by the resolution approved by the Senate Environment Commission even in March 2014.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u58	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u59	Madam President, I am in favour of Amendment 2,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u60	On Amendment 2,100, the Budget Commission has expressed the opposite view, Senator Caleo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u61	Mr Caleo, rapporteur. There's a simple contrast, I'm told. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, there is an opinion against Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Caleo, rapporteur. I therefore call on the authors to withdraw or I am against it. I am in favour of amendment 2.101, provided that the following rewording is made: after the word 'promotion', replace the word 'tourism' with the words'sustainable tourism'. I am opposed to Amendments 2.102, 2.103 and 2.0.100 and to Amendment 2.104.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u62	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u65	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, since it also appeared to me that the Budget Commission had just given an opinion against Amendment 2,100, I would ask you to check it out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u66	Let us verify the opinion and, in the meantime, proceed with the other amendments. On Amendment 2,101 a proposal for a rewording was tabled by the rapporteur. Senator Santangelo, do you accept it? SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would ask the rapporteur, Mr Caleo, to repeat it, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u67	After the word 'promotion', insert the words'sustainable tourism', deleting the word 'tourism'.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u68	I accept the rewording, Madam President, and I would ask that the votes on the amendments tabled to the article be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u69	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,101 (text 2), tabled by Senators Santangelo and Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us return to amendment 2.100, on which I understand that the Budget Committee has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, as President Tonini will be able to confirm. I would like to ask President Tonini whether, while we are voting on the other votes, he can check this opinion, because some members of the Senate Assembly, some of whom are members of the Budget Committee, believe that the opinion has not been expressed in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and that, therefore, the amendment is not impervious, as I believe Senator Uras also intended to point out. I therefore propose the provision of amendment 2,100. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.102, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.103, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.104, tabled by Senator Sollo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall be voting on Article 2, pending the dissolution of the doubt on Amendment 2,100 tabled by Senator De Petris. Let us move on to amendment 2.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u70	Madam President, my amendment 3,102, which I have tabled, which I would ask the rapporteur to give careful consideration to the wording of the opinion, is a very sensible one. It provides that, after their establishment, in parks, nature reserves and marine protected areas (subline: marine protected areas) all activities of shooting polygons and related exercises shall be prohibited. This is not a trivial issue, because, especially for a number of areas, it is a major problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u71	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u72	I am against all the amendments, except Amendment 3,101, on which the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u73	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u74	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,101, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,102, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,103.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u77	MARTON (M5S). I would ask that I be able to add my signature to Amendment 3,103. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u80	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to revise its opinion on Amendment 3,103, since it provides for nothing other than, if the territory of the park or nature reserve covers military sites, areas identified for drills and/or shooting polygons, these activities must be subjected in advance to the assessment of environmental impact, in compliance with the directives in force. I do not understand what the objections can be, given that we are dealing here with new provisions on protected areas: these are always operations that protect the territory, so I believe that this is an amendment of absolute common sense. Even as Vice President of the Defence Commission, I believe that an additional act to protect the territory cannot present any opposition. We are also willing to consider any proposals for rewording the text, but I believe that the amendment can be a strong sign in defence of the territory and nothing else: it has no other purpose. I would therefore ask the rapporteur to propose the provision so as to have a few more minutes to evaluate it and to discuss it with the representative of the Government, or to revise at this time the opinion previously put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u81	Senator Santangelo, perhaps it would have been useful to explain the amendment at the previous stage, so that the Government could respond to it when expressing its views. I would ask the rapporteur if he would insist on the opposite opinion on Amendment 3,103.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u82	Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u83	We can therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u86	SANTANGELO (M5S). I do not understand the reasons for this opinion because they have not been put forward, but it can also be true. I would ask whether the rapporteur can possibly consider the adoption of an agenda, given the importance of the subject. Such a restrictive closure leaves me very perplexed, not knowing - I repeat - even the reasons, given and considering that we are talking about new provisions to protect protected areas. I do not understand why, if there are military areas that fall into protected areas, the territory should not be protected. What's to hide? Why do we not want to protect those areas? Let's be clear: if there are areas, maybe on islands, which must be abandoned to their destiny, say it clearly. Otherwise, I believe that the minimum is the adoption of an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u87	Senator Santangelo, I would ask you, in any case, next time, to speak at the stage of explaining the amendments, so that the rapporteur can reply when expressing his opinions on the amendments, thereby allowing the work to proceed more orderly. I would ask the rapporteur to comment on Senator Santangelo's request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u88	Madam President, I would simply like to say that there are very effective instruments within the protected areas, both for planning and evaluation, so we believe that Senator Santangelo's proposals can be included in the current instruments. The opinion is therefore also opposed to a possible agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u91	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, I would like to add my signature to Amendment 3,103.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u92	The Presidency takes note of this. I call on Senator Santangelo and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 3,103. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u93	Madam President, with amendment 4.103 we are asking that, with regard to the appointment of the President of the park, the agreement should be sought not only with regard to the regions but also to the community of the park, which we believe should be adequately represented. With amendment 4.108, always with reference to the appointment of the Park President, we ask that the time within which the Regions must express their opinion, their understanding, has increased to thirty days; in our opinion, in fact, 15 days to carry out an evaluation on the ternal proposed by the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea are indeed few. Finally, the last amendment that I intend to present is 4,109, with which we propose that, faced with concerns from the Presidents of the Regions who have received the proposal of the ternal, the Regions may in turn present to the Ministry of the Environment their own ternal, within which to choose the President of the park.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u94	Madam President, Amendment 4.118 attempts to remedy the lack of qualification of the Governing Council and it is a bit of a backward step, in accordance with the old Law No 394 of 1991, in which it is reiterated that the persons who will be members of the Governing Council will be chosen from among those who have special qualifications for activities relating to nature conservation, management of protected areas, administrative and environmental law and not just part of them. It is also proposed that the division between eight and six components, which saw the member of ISPRA disappear in the minor conformation to the benefit of the representative of farmers, i.e. an entrepreneur. I therefore call on the House to vote in favour of amendment 4.118.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u95	Madam President, Article 4 is particularly important and concerns one of the points of the measure on which we are most critical, namely the governance system. We have highlighted two fundamental aspects. The first is in Amendment 4107, in which we call for a better definition and a specific addition to the specific nature conservation competence of the President's requirements. In fact, I do not think that you could have managed a Province and then managed a park in the same way, I believe that it is in the interest of parks and quality governance to better specify this specific competence. Amendment 4.119 makes a very precise proposal on the composition of the Governing Council, seeking to restore a balance between the members appointed by the park community and the most general and widespread representatives of interests, as well as scientific qualification. For this reason, we ask that the council be formed as follows: three members designated by the park community, with limited voting, and three components expressing the most widespread general interests, including one designated by ISPRA. The issue of governance is not to be underestimated, because the balance that will be achieved in this, in our opinion, will guarantee quality governance of the parks. The other amendment that I intend to put forward and which is particularly important to us is Amendment 4.40, which concerns the director. Here too, emphasis is placed on quality and requirements, indicating a specialization of the sector: it is not enough to have been a good general manager in another sector of public administration. On the appointment of director, since the register (which had its limits) is abolished, we go further in the text: in our opinion it is absolutely essential that the specificity of the requirements necessary for the task be emphasized. The question is not of goat wool, but arises from the experience gained in the management of the parks over the years. It would be essential for the appointment of the Director to take place through public selection, of course, but above all through a very clear and precise indication of the specific management requirements and competences in the field. You are not running a company, an employee or a department like the others and the director must have skills in managing protected areas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u96	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u97	Madam President, I am opposed to all the amendments to Article 4, apart from Senator De Petris' amendment 4.147, of which I would propose a rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u98	Excuse me, Senator Caleo, but also on Amendment 4.147, the 5th Commission has given an opinion against it, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. I do not know whether the rewording could go beyond this opinion: the text should, however, be brought back to the examination of the budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u99	If we specify that there must be technical skills within the organic plant, I wonder why there should be opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Sounds kind of weird and weird to me. In fact, the amendment provides for figures which do not affect more than others from an economic point of view. On this point, I would like to ask the Commission for further examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u100	Senator Tonini, the opinions of the Budget Committee are raising some concerns. We are talking about amendment 4.147, which specifies the professionalism envisaged, without altering the composition of the organic plant. The rapporteur asks whether, in his view, the opinion is based on Rule 81 of the Constitution or whether you consider, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, to revise this opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u101	Madam President, there is an opinion on this amendment in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and we cannot repeat the debate that has been held here in this House. The reason is quite obvious: if the composition of the organic plant is obliged in a certain way, a burden arises. If you agree, Madam President, I would also like to take the opportunity to speak on the opinion on amendment 2.100, which has been mentioned earlier. I checked in the report of the sitting that in that case, too, there was an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and the reason is quite simple: Article 2 refers to an existing fund, with respect to which the basic rule of the text provides the right for the municipalities of the smaller islands to allocate a quota for the purposes set out in the law. Another thing is to establish an obligation and even to identify a percentage: this obviously involves rigidity, hence the risk of a lack of coverage and therefore there can only be an opinion contrary to Article 81.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u102	The contrary opinion on amendment 2.100, to which we will return, and on amendment 4.147, is therefore confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u103	I accept President Tonini's remarks and respect for them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u104	Does he therefore also agree with Amendment 4.147? Mr Caleo, rapporteur. Exactly, Madam President. I am in favour of amendment 4.152. I propose that Senator De Petris turn amendment 4,153 into an agenda. I am against the remaining amendments, including the additional ones, and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u107	NUGNES (M5S). I withdraw amendment 4.136. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u108	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u109	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 4,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u112	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking very briefly on the order of business. I do not wish to call into question your work at all, but I would like to draw attention to the absolutely unusual procedure which has been used in relation to the two amendments on which the 5th Commission has voted against, which was discussed earlier. I am no longer a member of the Budget Commission and I am therefore speaking as an outsider. It has never been possible and would be a very dangerous precedent for the work of this House - because the opposition could take advantage of it too much - to submit to a new judgment of the Budget Commission an amendment which has already been declared impossible, Article 81, without the same being subject to any proposal for variation (a text two, a new text). President Tonini has very fittingly reiterated the Commission's opinion and also the same procedure as Rule 100, which you have invoked, is provided for only and exclusively in the presence of amendments to the texts already presented in this House. I therefore also appeal to the rapporteur to avoid giving in to this temptation which could introduce a very dangerous precedent. In any event, the authors are entitled to request a vote on it and it can be adopted by the House despite the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. I am sorry if I allowed myself to speak, but since the episode has already happened twice and President Tonini has been absolutely punctual in the substance of his speech, I would ask colleagues not to give in to this possible temptation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u113	Senator D'Alì, I wanted to point out that the two cases are a little different; on the first there was the statement of some senators who remembered that the opinion had been otherwise formulated and, therefore, there was a verification of the exact transcription of the opinion. On the second point, as there was a strong call from the rapporteur to try to make the relationship between the rapporteur, the government and other senators more cooperative, it seemed to me appropriate to consult the President of the Budget Commission, without this being a reduction in the strength of the opinion under Article 81.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u116	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, as we have not yet started voting on any amendments to Article 4, and as President Tonini has also expressed his doubts about Amendment 2,100 on which the budget Commission has expressed an opinion against Article 81 in order to confirm the sequencing of the measure, I propose that before voting on the amendments to Article 4, Article 2 should be dealt with again, in conclusion, since there is nothing left to prevent the amendments to Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u117	President Tonini spoke because he had the floor. I believe that it is best for the order of business to conclude an article and not to interrupt Article 4 as well, to go back and forward. So now we're gonna end Article 4 and then we're gonna "close" Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u120	URAS (Mixed). Madam President, your explanation of the matter, which is not a precedent and does not change the procedure, is more than acceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u121	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4,100, tabled by Senator Piccoli, until the words: "National Park". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4101 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 41.02, tabled by Senator Ceroni, to the words: 'the Community of the Park'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 4.103 and 4.104 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.05 tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4106, tabled by Senators Blondo and Girotto. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.07, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.108.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u124	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, amendment 4.108 contains a common sense rule. He doesn't ask for much, or even, I think, anything that is in contradiction with the usual regulations. It was simply asked to give to the president or presidents of the Regions whose territory, in part or totally, is included in the park area, not fifteen but thirty days to evaluate the agreement on the ternal proposed by the Ministry of the Environment. We waste so much time, months and years, to do things, that we go from fifteen to thirty days for the evaluation of an important figure like that of the president, I thought it was the least. This is an amendment of common sense. I note, however, the foreclosure by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government. Of course, we will confirm with our vote the goodness of this amending proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u125	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.108, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.109, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.110, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.111, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.112, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.113, tabled by Senator Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u128	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, was Amendment 4.13 not included in the article? It seems to me that this is an amendment which has been approved in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u129	You must ask the colleague who presented it, Senator Nugnes. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.14 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u132	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I support Amendments 4.15 and 4.16 and withdraw them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u133	I take note of that, Senator Malan. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.117, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators, up to the word 'ISPRA', in this regard. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.118 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.119, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.20 tabled by Senator Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.21 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.122, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.23, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.124, tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.25 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.26, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.127, tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4.28, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators, until the words 'n'. 349,............................................................................................................ (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.129 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.30 tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.31 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.32, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators, up to the words "directives" of Mr Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 4,133 to 4,135 are therefore not included. Amendment 4.136 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.137, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.138, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators, until the words "director of the park" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.139 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.40, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.141, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.142, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.143, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.144, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4,145, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BLUNDO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,145, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4,146, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Senator Nugnes speaking on the phone, I would ask you to take care of the work of this House. Do you ask for a vote? Before hearing from the first signatory, Senator Blundo, if you insist on the vote, I would invite you to interrupt your telephone conversation and participate in our work. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). What are you talking about? NUGNES (M5S). I'm not on the phone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me. I was confused with Senator Blundo, who is the first signatory to the previous amendment put to the vote. Indeed, the first signatory to this amendment is Senator Nugnes. NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, it's okay. She called me Moronese, Blondo, Nugnes: it doesn't matter. With regard to Amendment 4,146, we are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4,146, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.147, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.147, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.148, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4,149, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Senator Nugnes, will you ask for the vote? NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, the amendment is identical to amendment 4,146, which we have already voted on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Nugnes, there are differences between the two amendments. Amendment 4,146 replaces, while amendment 4,149 inserts. NUGNES (M5S). Then I ask for the vote on amendment 4.149. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.149, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,150, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.51 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.152.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u136	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Amendment 4.152 deals with a problem of an overall approach to the relationship between the park (and any administration) and the rest of the world. We are liberals and believe that, in their autonomy, those who administer public affairs, like all citizens, can do everything that can be done, except as prohibited by law. With Amendment 4,152 we move from a completely opposite perspective to the liberal one, going to regulate what the park can do, thus risking to exclude the freedom of action in what is not provided for by the law. In my opinion, that the park agency can make agreements with other bodies is, in re ipsa, in the institutional faculty of the park agency. Why do we have to foresee it by law? By writing it into the law we automatically introduce the principle that the park agency cannot do other things, because they are not provided for by the law. For this reason, my vote will be against and I would also like to ask Senator De Petris to withdraw the amendment, because it is obvious to us that these things can be done. However - I repeat - if we establish by law that these things can be done, we put at risk other activities that, in the course of work, the park agency wants to put in place, but that, not being provided by law according to an interpretation of social relations that is absolutely not appropriate to us, may possibly have some regrets to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u137	It seems to me that there is no intention of rethinking. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.152, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator De Petris, do you accept the proposal to withdraw amendment 4,153 and turn it into an agenda? DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, Madam President, I accept it and ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G4.153, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of the G4100, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4.101, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u140	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, as I said in presenting the amendments, this is one of the most important articles of the measure and it is, alas, the one on which we have noted the most important critical aspects, precisely in relation to the reform of park governance. Now, the issues we raised, in particular the question of specific competences, both in terms of the choice and characteristics of the president and in terms of those relating to the director, were not rhetorical; instead, it was a fundamental element to make these changes and to accentuate the part of the specific competences in the field of the management of the protected areas. But the thing that worries us the most is that it was absolutely not intended to incorporate any changes in the structure and composition of the Governing Council. Now, I have to say, I'm a little stunned, and I'm not saying that as a joke. I would like to ask all the senators whether these mayors of ours, who also - Madam President - have a heavy burden (especially in these times) and have been suffering from resource cuts for years, even though they must continue to manage the services (this is always very hard), should perhaps not have taken up 100% of their time already. Instead, there are changes being made here that will require the senators, the presidents of the large-area agencies, the presidents of the metropolitan areas and now they must also enter into the management councils of the parks. I honestly begin to have - and this is not a joke - a number of concerns. It will perhaps be because less and less resources are being given to local authorities and therefore, of course, perhaps we are thinking of compensating them for something else. But I don't think it's good for the mayors or, in this case, for the management of the parks. Our proposal, like that of other senators, tended to restore in some way a balance between the representatives of the community of the park - for the truth I would also have foreseen a strengthening of the community, not so much in the nomination, but precisely in the powers themselves - and at the same time tried to make sure that the parks did not suffer, as in this way happens, a drift towards a governance that risks feeling more and more of localistic interests. The competences and mission that parks and protected areas have, and therefore the management councils, is clearly to take on very general and widespread interests, such as the protection of natural habitats and the conservation of nature. Even in your reform of the Constitution - which we, as you know, fight and fight - we assume the principle that, however, environmental protection is an exclusive competence of the State, for a simple reason: those concerning the environment and the protection of biodiversity are general interests of the country, the nation and, in the specific case, our continent and the planet. Therefore, stakeholders of general interest should prevail in management itself and in management boards, but this is not the case. Alas, we have pointed out the issues and tabled the amendments, which have not been accepted, except in very small parts, and for this reason we shall be voting against Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u141	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.100, tabled by Senators Santangelo and Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.101, tabled by Senator Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us resume the examination of Article 2 which was previously set aside. After the clarification of the President of the Budget Commission, we can return to Amendment 2,100 with the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u142	Waiting for colleagues to leave the Chamber, before the speeches at the end of the session, we greet the students and teachers of the Institute including...Elio Vittorini in Messina who are in the gallery and attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u145	CUOMO (PD). Madam President, with this late sitting speech I continue today in the Senate a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man, to whom she is, or has been, bound by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. Violence that manifests itself in so many ways: physical, verbal, psychological and last but not least aberrant violence, economic violence. On November 3, in Bitonto, in the province of Bari, Mariagrazia Cuttrone, twenty-nine years old, she was stabbed by her husband, who then attempted suicide. The evening before Mariagrazia, mother of three children, five and seven years old, had asked for help from the carabinieri who, after clarification among the spouses, had verbally redacted their husband and had sent them home. On 4 November it was the turn of Viktoria Shovkoplyas, fifty-four years old, who died in Ottaviano, in the province of Naples, following a violent push received from his companion, during a fight: the fall caused a serious head injury. The man didn't call the rescue immediately after the incident and is now charged with preterintentional murder. In recent days the trial for Enza Avino of Terzigno has been held and the judges of the court of Nola have explained that they have excluded the aggression of cruelty, where the prosecutor had asked for life imprisonment, and has been imposed a sentence of thirty years in prison against the companion who had confessed to having killed her. In this way, the women we remember in this relay rise to 24, which began only on June 30th. We count, more or less, one hundred deaths since the beginning of 2016. Instead, it was foiled in Magenta, thanks to the intervention of the carabinieri (called by the woman who did not agree to leave the house for a final clarification), an attempt of feminicide of a woman of forty-one years by his ex-boyfriend. The man had in fact presented himself under the house of his ex with a knife and a small bottle of muriatic acid, with which - as he admitted - he intended to hit her. Already denounced for stalking, the man is now in prison on charges of persecuting acts. As these cases also show, feminicide is almost always the ultimate result of a series of long-standing violent behaviors. Femicide is, in the final analysis, the reaction, violent and cowardly, to the inability to respect the freedom of women. With Law No 119 of 2013 against gender violence, which this Parliament approved in implementation of the Istanbul Convention, our country has recognised violence against women as a violation of human rights and gender discrimination. He acknowledged that violence against women is a social phenomenon, a phenomenon that has public and non-private roots. Gender violence and abuse of women are fueled by the patriarchal culture strongly stereotyped and rooted in our society. This discriminatory system is gradually breaking down: men increasingly recognise and respect women as professionals and free human beings and women become increasingly aware of their independence. This phenomenon can be prevented, by intervening on the factors that determine it, applicable in many areas: legal, working and educational. To this end, a plan against violence against women has been proposed and approved. In the meantime, protective instruments have been strengthened to ensure greater safety for women under threat. However, it is necessary to continue to monitor that these measures work and that the plan is implemented. But in order to strengthen the guarantees and safeguards in defence of women, we have to ask ourselves: why did the network of protection that saved the woman of Magenta not work in the case of Mariagrazia in Bari instead? A few weeks ago, in the city of which I am honoured to have been mayor, this topic was discussed in depth, and I take the opportunity to thank the vice president of the Senate Valeria Fedeli who came to debate with many young women and young men on this topic. We propose with conviction our appeal. An appeal to the Minister for Equal Opportunities and to the Government everything: the directing booth, which met for the first time on September 8 last, monitors the application, the merits and the limits of Law No 119 of 2013, and above all give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. An appeal to the media: that they finally assume the role of educators of society, promoting a language that reflects an equal and just society, describing the real scope of feminicide, as a social phenomenon, and not as a sporadic event related to the life of couples; they really value the role of women in the social group. In conclusion, an appeal to the country, men, above all, and women: 160 women killed each year. We can no longer accept this massacre. We are promoters of a different future, applying gender equality in every area of our lives. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u148	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 May 2009 the Environment Commission approved the document setting up a Single Chamber Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the problems related to the reconstruction of the territories affected by the earthquakes of 6 April 2009, thus giving the rapporteur the mandate to report back to the House. The need for the Commission of Inquiry is demonstrated not only by the various offences that have characterized the reconstruction process in recent years, many of which have already been investigated by the judiciary, but also by the injuries suffered by some newly rebuilt houses and recently returned to the owners, following the earthquakes of 24 August. Damages have been recorded in some condominiums in Via Amiternum and in Cansatessa and Santa Maria di Farfa, although judged not dangerous by the technicians and firemen who carried out the surveys; instead, for the buildings of public residential building of San Gregorio was ordered the eviction of many families, after having made them live for seven years in damaged and partially accessible houses, without providing, however, for the public residential buildings of Via Di Vincenzo, the actual use of public resources specially allocated for their reconstruction and having the judiciary open yet another investigation. These last developments require even more rigorous investigation of the exemplary nature of much of the reconstruction work carried out over the last seven years with the substantial use of public resources, in order to verify the correct operation. There are therefore many reasons why this measure was urgently discussed in this House, which was first scheduled for July, which was postponed after the summer break and was again scheduled. His examination was planned for this afternoon's sitting, then yesterday the Conference of the Leaders revolutionized the timetable once again and President Grasso, communicating additions and changes to it, did not refer to the Document that he intends to set up the Commission of Inquiry. At present, Madam President, it appears in this week's agenda, but in a position which precludes the debate, since we are considering a substantial measure such as that concerning protected areas. Not only that, the hope of being able to discuss it disappears also next week because on schedule, starting on the afternoon of Tuesday 16 November, there is the continuation of the discussion of ratifications of international agreements not concluded, and then not to the Document establishing the urgent Commission of Inquiry, as would be normal, but to the draft law on the professional responsibilities of health workers. I would therefore point out and ask the Presidency whether it is no longer appropriate to proceed, after the ratifications of international agreements have been completed, to examine the Document establishing the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the issues related to the post-seismal reconstruction of the Eagle, before examining the draft law on the professional responsibilities of health workers. The start of a Commission that is clear is in fact useful and unavoidable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u149	Senator, I would like to point out that the document you mentioned is present in the timetable of proceedings in the position you referred to, so it is in principle possible to start this debate. However, the question you raised was to be raised yesterday at the time of the debate on the agenda, and it does not seem to me that a reversal of the agenda has been voted on, nor that it has been discussed at the Conference of the Leaders. I say this for the correctness of the information.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u152	SANTINI (PD). Madam President, I would like to speak about the situation of the Cementeria in Monselice, in the province of Padua, in which in recent weeks a request has been made to modify the plants through the change of fuel used in the production process, from fossil fuel to secondary solid fuel (CSS) derived from the use of waste. This was done by a procedure that was not only very rapid, but also by interpreting the law in a very restrictive and incomplete way, as unfortunately has subsequently emerged from the examination of the acts. This is particularly true of the fact that a new integrated environmental authorisation has been carefully avoided, which, in these cases, in the opinion of all, is absolutely necessary in order to fully assess the effects of this change and, above all, for the requirements necessary to avoid adverse effects on the environment caused by emissions into the atmosphere. It has been created in this country, which, among other things, is located within a park, a situation of high social alarm on the part of citizens, which makes absolutely necessary the suspension of the authorization already given by the provincial environmental technical commission and the preparation of a new procedure that starts both from the renewed integrated environmental authorization, and from the examination of a possible more in-depth environmental assessment on the level of pollution. In this sense, I announce the submission of a question to the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea to use all possible actions, as a signatory to the decree that established the practice of the use of the CSS in cement works, asking a kindly prompt response, given the situation of great social tension that for weeks has lived the community of citizens in Monselice.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-718.ana.u153	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.51 p.m.
