ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. The first question will be asked 3-03249 on the decommissioning of the CISAM nuclear reactor in Pisa and on the disposal of radioactive waste. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u4	Madam President, I would like to point out, in advance, that on the issues covered by the question, and in particular on the reactor at San Piero a Grado, there is full openness and transparency on the part of the Defense, documenting and making available on the network all the technical documentation in possession. On the official site of the Navy, under the heading "race calls," it is possible to access the data related to the analysis of the water of the former reactor before treatment, while the results of the examinations after treatment were provided by CISAM to the local institutions of Pisa and Livorno (Common, Province, Prefecture), as well as to the ISPRA and the ASL, as well as to the Regional Agency for Environmental Protection Tuscany that has published them in full on its website. Coming to the question put by the questioner, the Galileo Galilei pool research reactor, at the Military Studies and Applications Interforce Centre (CISAM) in San Piero a Grado, definitively ceased its activity in 1980 and in the following years were carried out in absolute safety, according to the most appropriate procedures, all the decommissioning operations of the plant. In 2010 the dismantling of the secondary refrigeration circuit and the control rods was completed and the process of dismantling the pool, divided into four phases, began. The phase one (elimination of the water of the pool and conditioning of the present material) ended in May 2015 with the release of the certifications, by the National Agency for new technologies, energy and sustainable economic development (ENEA), of the environmental status of the site. Phase two, currently under way, involves the dismantling of the primary circuit, the active purification plant, the radioactive liquid effluent collection plant and drainage and will involve the construction of about one hundred and thirty containers of radioactive waste at low and medium activity, which almost completely lose their radioactivity over the course of almost a century. Stages three and four - still under study - include, at the moment, interventions on auxiliary installations and on the reinforced concrete structure of the pool and will allow the completion of the process of dismantling the pool. With reference, however, to the amount of radioactive waste that will be produced during these last two phases, it is not possible to make a reliable estimate, since the data will depend to a large extent on the actual radiological state of the components that can only be verified during the work. To date, 1,140 containers of conditioned radioactive waste from defense activities are temporarily stored in the CISAM warehouse. With regard to radioactive waste produced by military hospitals, it is specified that, according to the chemical-physical characteristics of the radioactive waste to be treated (quantity, type of isotopes and activities), radiation protection measures determined by the qualified expert of the body (responsible for the protection of workers from radiological risk), which also provide for the disposal of such waste. Each health facility manages such waste with specialist sector companies - on the basis of special agreements - which provide for the collection, transport and disposal of waste in accordance with current legislation. As regards the possibility of disposing of radioactive waste in the National Deposit, as stated by the honourable Member, to final title also radioactive waste produced by activities related to the Ministry of Defence, it should be noted that the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, concerned in this regard, has communicated that, in line with Articles 11 and 12 of Directive 2011/60/Euratom, the National Programme for the Management of Nuclear Fuel and Radioactive Waste prepared by the Ministries of the Environment and Economic Development - in the phase of strategic environmental assessment (VAS) - provides, in the state, only for the management of waste arising from civil activities. Finally, as regards the monitoring and control of decommissioning operations, the Defence used, in the first phase of the dismantling, the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA), which was involved in these activities in civil matters, while the analyses of treated waters and environmental matrixes were carried out, as well as by the CISAM, by ENEA, thus ensuring a condition of third-party and guarantee. Also during the second phase, sample checks will be carried out by ISPRA and the University of Pisa.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u7	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, I cannot be satisfied with the answer because I have asked five specific questions and I have not received five specific answers. In particular, the key issue is where the waste is disposed of. We have just heard that the National Programme, which is still being defined, provides for the disposal of non-military waste in the single national waste warehouse, but - as the Undersecretary has just said - only civilian waste. Therefore, he did not answer the main question: where the waste will be disposed of. In fact, if only civil waste is mentioned in the National Programme, it has not been said where military waste will be disposed of, which was the main question I had asked. Therefore, having had no answer, of course I cannot be absolutely satisfied. As far as quantity is concerned, I have only been given the information of 130 containers, without specifying what they contain. I can only reiterate the fact that this Government is very late precisely with regard to the first step, the foundation of all the management of the process of disposal, decommitioning which is the drafting of the National Programme. We're still. And, again, it's probably the Constitution's fault. I cannot say that I am satisfied with the fact that, although we had a reactor completed its operation in 1980, we are still here discussing the place where the waste will be disposed of and - I repeat - no answer was given to the question I asked. No answer was given to my question about the government's concentration on stages 2, 3 and 4 of the disposal procedure. It has been said that phase 2 is in progress - very well - and that stages 3 and 4 are under study. Therefore, we do not actually know what will be done afterwards to complete the disposal procedure. As for the vigilantes, we now learn that CISAM and ENEA have so far been, but it has been asked who will monitor in the future to complete the disposal process. We know that there is a body, the ISIN, in charge of overseeing the decommissioning procedures, although we are the first to say that a director has been appointed who does not meet the requirements of the laws. For all these reasons, I cannot be satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-02740 on initiatives to support Italian bachiculture. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is necessary to stress that we agree on the importance of Italian bachiculture, so much so that we have a specialised research unit in this field of our research organisation (CREA). On the substance of the questions raised by the honourable Member, I must unfortunately point out that, in the context of the new course of Community aid policy, adopted by the European Union in June 2013, the aid for the previously recognised growers has not been confirmed. On the side of the coupled aid, then, the current subdivision was the result of an elaborate path of sharing with the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces and the agricultural organizations, in order to achieve a concrete result of support to some national productions. For the mid-term review of the coupled aid provided for by the European regulation, it was shared with the same parties to make simple adjustments in the ceiling, without prejudice to the sectors to be supported. To this end, we notified the relevant European authorities on 1 August. However, the importance of the proposed subject remains and we will be able to raise it in the European context - and we fully agree with the honourable Member - also with a view to the construction of the next reform of the common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u12	WRITER IN TOR (AP) (NCD-UDC). Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, I welcome the answer given. I must say that I have committed myself to maintaining in Padua the CREA institute, which has been present in that reality for more than 150 years, which follows in particular all the research, and is one of the first two or three in the world in the field of bachiculture. Italy was, in the years immediately after the war, but also before, one of the producing countries in the field of the silk industry. Thanks also to the competition of business and agricultural associations there is a recovery in the quality of the silkworm, for the new technologies and the multi-use that is made of the silkworm and, not only for the silky enterprise, but also for cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and for a thousand other opportunities. So this recovery can be a support for the world of agriculture, but I think it should be helped. In some countries there is coupled intervention, in others to a lesser extent. Probably not much attention has been paid to this issue when comparing with the Regions. The Government's commitment, therefore, through the Deputy Minister, is to review in the medium term a particular support to this sector that, in my region and in a large part of the country, is recovering quota, because also the seric enterprise strongly demands the quality of the product; quality that in other producing countries, first China, is not expressed for our industry. Therefore, I welcome the response of the Deputy Minister and the promised future commitment. I believe that all those policies aimed at products that we call niche, but that niche are not essential to our industry, should be adhered to. I am pleased with the reply and, above all, with the commitment of the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u13	Following is the question 2-00418 on the determination of the price of an innovative medicine for hepatitis C by AIFA. I call Senator Barani to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u14	Mr Undersecretary, I am sorry that you are here today to attend our work; I would have preferred to meet the Minister of Health, partly because on 13 October 2016 you have already come here to answer my question and, during your speech, have made you tell four lies. It is not possible at the Senate of the Republic, in front of the Presidency, to lie. Today's interview, which resumes that of 13 October, speaks of the national authority competent for the regulatory activity of medicines in Italy, a body governed by public law that operates according to the principles of legality, impartiality and transparency, with criteria of efficiency, cost-effectiveness and effectiveness, according to the address of the Ministry of Health and under the supervision of the Ministries of Health and Economics and Finance. Now, the price of medicines reimbursed by the National Health Service is determined by bargaining between AIFA and pharmaceutical companies, according to the decrees you know. Even, if it breaks through, the AIFA has to claim overflow refunds compared to the budget. And we can say that AIFA doesn't do that either. Therefore, the negotiation procedure on price fixing should be conducted on the basis of criteria and elements among which the transparency, usefulness of the new medicinal product for the prevention or treatment of major diseases or symptoms against which the medicinal product has its effectiveness should be taken into account. The sales volumes should be taken into account, which should be assumed on the basis of an estimate as accurate as possible, based on updated and available scientific and epidemiological data at the time of negotiation. This is the part of the general discourse: now there is the drama. There is a new innovative medicine for the treatment of hepatitis C, sofosbuvir (Sovali) leading to a hepatitis C recovery rate of more than 90 percent. AIFA, with its president Pani, would have hired a "secreted deal" with the pharmaceutical industry: in essence, a public law agency deals with an American company, Gilead, secretly about the price of the drug. Instead of guaranteeing an affordable price, the negotiation would end with the determination of a very high cost of the drug, such that a complete treatment cycle costs little less than 40,000 euros per patient, with a very negative effect on the pharmaceutical expenditure of the National Health Service, which turns more and more towards the "intense red." Gilead, the American pharmaceutical company, has made huge profits and has been the subject of heavy criticism for the high cost of the drug in Italy, contrary to what happens in Egypt and India, become destinations for Italians of "therapeutic tourism" that - in the opinion of the questioner - is even more atrocious than sexual tourism, which we all condemn. In Egypt, where the drug is granted by Gilead itself - it is the same product, stored in the same box - with the agreement between the Egyptian Minister of Health and the pharmaceutical company itself, a complete cycle costs just over 800 euros. So, in Italy, it costs 5,000 percent more. Italy, Mr. Undersecretary, is the European country with the largest number of hepatitis C patients, between 2.5 and 3.5%. And the spread of hepatitis C between North, Central and South is 3,2, 8.4 and 12,6 respectively. Mr. Undersecretary, hepatitis C kills 10,000 people a year. It causes liver cirrhosis for 35 percent of affections; it leads to gastrointestinal bleeding for esophageal varices; it leads to ascites and cirrhosis and leads from 1 to 4 percent of cases to cancer. Anyone who does the transplant, if not treated, will again develop cirrhosis and cancer in 100 percent of cases. So transplants that cost 200,000 euros -- 50 percent of liver transplants are for people with hepatitis C -- are useless. It's money torn apart if you don't take this cure. In Italy, hepatitis C affects between 1.5 million and 2 million people and, therefore, 10 million people are affected, if families are considered. The disease has an incidence of 2.2% across the population. We can therefore consider a social disease and, consequently, we cannot have a secret negotiation with an international pharmaceutical company compared to other countries, which we consider to be underdeveloped, but which, from this point of view, do the health care of citizens better than we do. All the most qualified national epidemiological observers (National Center for Epidemiology, Monitoring and Promotion of Health of the Higher Institute of Health; National Institute of Infectious Diseases Spallanzani of Rome; Dionysos project), at the time of the negotiation of the price of Sovaldi, declared that the Italians suffering from hepatitis C were between 1.3 and 2 million. In Italy, to heal from a chronic and debilitating disease like this, we cannot give an amount equal to the cost of the drug to a multinational structure to treat all our patients with hepatitis C and spend 60 billion when in Egypt, with the same number, it would spend 1.2 billion. 40-50 percent of the hepatitis virus infection becomes chronic and a good percentage degenerates into cirrhosis, with the death of about 17,000 patients per year. For the very serious repercussions on the high cost of the drug on public health and on the very survival of hundreds of thousands of patients, it would be urgent to set up a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the negotiation of the Sovaldi price, so that we can finally clarify the incredible affair of the confidential and secreted negotiation in order to verify fairness and fairness. I myself addressed the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance to ask for your intervention. Mr Undersecretary, I take back where we left off on 13 October, when I raised doubts about AIFA also about Luca Pani, who resigned and whose term of office expired on 16 November. I saw today that he sent a letter from the United States to all the employees in which he announced his resignation and that he will celebrate with all the collaborators on 4 November together with the new Director General, that the State-Regions Conference has not yet ratified, but that it is said that he has already been identified in the person of Mario Melazzini, former Lombardy regional councillor, who has already resigned and whose resignation has been accepted. We already know, regardless of the opinion of the State-Regions Conference, that the Minister has already identified it, indicated it and he will be the new director. And why is it obvious: the meeting of Communion and Liberation had a contribution of 70,000 euros, and I repeat 70,000, Undersecretary, and not 50,000, as you said the previous time. I'm sorry, but it's 70,000, and go check it out. Whoever wrote to her 50,000 is in bad faith, because they made a second resolution of reinforcement of the first. You rightly said that it was given in 2006 and 2007 too, but the EUR 2,000 in 2006 and 2007 is not the EUR 70,000 right now. I'm going back to your answer. You say that you have verified that neither Polifrone nor the president of AIFA had the cards of Communion and Liberation. But - excuse me - it is a movement that defines itself ecclesial and does not weave. So you can't come here and tell us they're strangers because they don't have cards. No one has them, and no one has ever had them because they do not give the tiles to ecclesial movements. To the confused and incredible justification of the Undersecretary - believe me, Undersecretary, and precisely for this reason I would have liked the Minister to be present and not you - about the assumption of Mrs. Latronico in Polifrone and Mr. Polifrone in AIFA, it is remembered that he was an employee of the Council and on behalf of this one he was interested in the tendering of AIFA as a OR, and therefore he was fully in the inconferability of the office in AIFA. When I read the weekly "Topolino", in the band Bassotti at this time instead of Scrooge I see AIFA. They're hired on a fixed-term basis, but they'll be on a full-time basis. Moreover, in favour of Polifrone, since he would certainly have lost in the case of appeal to the TAR promoted by other competitor, AIFA transferred it with an incredible maneuver to another post, in order to delegitimize the appeal itself: a three-card game that we do not like. I repeat: those who were solely responsible for the procedure in the Council for AIFA cannot then go to AIFA to manage the price of the drug. Mr Undersecretary, the answers were correct in this House, because then it is easy to check that they are inaccurate. I have great respect for the disabled, and especially for those who have the accompanying allowance. But we are giving Dr. Melazzini, who since 2002 has received an accompanying cheque from the INPS, the post of Director-General of AIFA. The accompanying allowance to the accompanying person serves to enable the normal aptitudes of life to be fulfilled. We're close to him, very close. As elected to the Regional Council it is the people who decide, but in an agency with the pressures mentioned the president who goes to be the Director General does not ensure transparency, especially when the State-Regions Conference is convened for next week. Undersecretary, you said another inaccuracy last time. With regard to the certificate of the doctor competent for the suitability for Dr. Polifrone, he told us that he had recognized a full suitability, when instead - I went to verify the certificate - it is a partial suitability, to be checked with examination every two years and not every five years. That too had to be said in the House. It is necessary to know that the competent doctor, of trust, gives him the unfitness. You can't force someone to work when work can cause him injury. That is why it seems from our information that this issue has also been dealt with incorrectly. Mr. Undersecretary, I shall end by repeating the words of Minister Lorenzin that days ago, during an interview with Sky, he stated that vaccines are the main problem of the country, given the decrease in their use in childhood. How do we put it with the hepatitis C medicine, the price of which is defined by secret negotiation and which we cannot afford? ASLs, in fact, cannot afford it. Whoever needs it, and cannot buy it at 40,000 euros, goes to get it in Egypt. Mr. Undersecretary, do you know that at Rome airport the drug was kidnapped by a gentleman who was returning from India? He was kidnapped, but then our court gave it back to him as a life-saving drug. That gentleman could not afford to buy the drug at the amount of 40,000 euros and went to buy it out at 800 euros. We therefore believe that the criteria of transparency and cost-effectiveness should be revised somewhat and, above all, that the Director-General of AIFA must have the qualifications and scientific publications in order to be able to hold that post, as required by law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u15	Senator Barani, Dr. Melazzini's suitability is not the subject of questioning. By the way, I don't even know if the Senate will have the expertise on the opinion. Madam President, I am talking about scientific publications... PRESIDENT. - The debate is I only point out that the theme is not the subject of the questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u16	Those in charge of the director of a drug agency must have the titles, which can be seen on PubMed. Publications must, at least, be first and last signed - those who understand scientific publications know what this means - and, above all, we need continuity. We believe that, from this point of view too, things must be seen with a certain serenity, legality and transparency. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the four points raised in the questioning at my signature. I would ask you to know whether the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance and Health are aware of the facts and whether they do not revisit serious profiles of illegitimacy relating to the secreted negotiation carried out by the AIFA summits on the determination of Sovaldi's price. This negotiation may not respond to the particular regulatory principles of our country, which - I repeat - are those of transparency, accessibility to care and the estimated volume of sale. I ask you to know if the Ministers do not believe that any underestimating of the number of subjects suffering from hepatitis - our epidemiologists speak of a number between 1.3 and 2 million - has caused the price dealt with by the AIFA summits to rise considerably with Gilead in the negotiation of the drug and if this underestimating, in spite of all the epidemiological data available at the time, cannot also configure hypothetical profiles of dole. I ask you to know whether the Ministers do not find the possible existence of profiles of administrative responsibility in charge of the Director-General and the President of AIFA who, according to the questioner, would seem to have always defended the method of confidential negotiation. I would ask you to know whether the Minister of Health does not consider it appropriate to address AIFA in a different way. The AIFA should be the drug control agency in Italy for our sick people. I also remember the existence of the EMA, the European agency, which has to control the European cost of the drug. Mr. Undersecretary, do you know who the Italian representative of the EMA is? He is the same person who has been the general manager of AIFA in Italy. Excuse me, but agencies have to be agencies and not political supporters, because you can't joke about health. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u17	Madam President, of course I respond to Senator Barani's questioning also on the basis of documentary elements, and therefore usable at any time, provided by the Italian Agency for the drug itself. In advance, it should be pointed out that the issues raised by Senator Barani involve different areas of pharmaceutical market regulation. In this respect, it is stressed that the sector in question is characterised by a high level of regulation by both European and national regulatory sources. In this respect, the activities of AIFA, as far as the regulatory framework is concerned, are certainly - I would like to point out - consistent with the Community and national regulatory framework. In particular, the determination of the price of medicinal products reimbursed by the National Health Service, by means of the negotiation between the Italian Agency of the drug and the pharmaceutical companies, takes place - as also mentioned in the same interview of Senator Barani - on the basis of the modalities and criteria indicated in the resolution CIPE 1 February 2001, with the following title: "Identification of the criteria for the negotiation of the price of medicinal products". In memory of all, in particular the negotiation of the price of a new medicinal product takes place according to the following criteria: positive cost/effectiveness ratio: the medicinal product is considered useful for the treatment of diseases for which there is no effective therapy, or provides a more adequate response compared to medicines already available for the same therapeutic indications; risk/benefit ratio more favorable compared to medicines already available for the same indications; assessment of the economic impact on the National Health Service; better cost-treatment ratio per day compared to products of the same effectiveness; estimate of the acquired market shares; comparison with the prices and consumption of other European countries. These were the criteria of the CIPE resolution. In assessing the effectiveness and price of a drug, AIFA makes use of the support of the Technical and Scientific Commission (in which representatives of the Regions are also present), the Price and Refunds Committee, as well as the data on consumption and pharmaceutical expenditure provided by the National Observatory on the use of medicines. It is also the responsibility of AIFA to maintain the economic balance relative to the ceiling fixed for pharmaceutical and hospital expenditure - as Senator Barani has pointed out - which governs through the application of appropriate shelf measures in the case of overtaking, such as the so-called pay back (which has existed for some years) and the incentive to use equivalent medicines, i.e. generics. The process relating to the price and reimbursement procedure defined in general terms by the aforementioned decision CIPE is divided into a series of phases that are governed, in their timing, also by the AIFA Regulation for the implementation of Articles 2 and 4 of Law No 241 of 7 August 1990, for the access to administrative documents and for the dematerialization of 1 September 2010, and by the same regulation of the technical-scientific commission and of the pricing and reimbursement committee. The instruments used by the Agency, as the national authority responsible for pricing, allow to obtain the economic conditions and access to drugs among the most favourable, in relation to the characteristics of the specific territorial context in question, which is found among the European countries. This implies, at times, the need to maintain confidentiality about the actual reimbursement price by the National Health Service for medicinal products under negotiation, by not imposing such a procedure contrary to any national or Community legal provision. This method, in fact, far from being an obstacle to the proper conduct of the negotiation process of price negotiation, is, in the specific hypotheses in which such agreements can intervene, a useful tool to ensure the possibility of asserting the peculiarities of the individual product in the national context in comparison with the company that is preparing to place its drug on the market and even obtain more favourable economic conditions for our National Health Service. These considerations - which seemed useful and consistent with all the observations made by Senator Barani - with reference to the case under consideration, AlFA negotiated a contractual agreement with Gilead for the definition of the price for the hepatitis C medicine and the subsequent taking into account of HCV patients, with charges charged by the National Health Service, and this agreement is currently subject to new negotiations for the expiry of the previous one. However, it is important to stress that to date more than 50,000 patients with hepatitis C have already been treated, with full allocation of their treatment costs to the National Health Service. It is in fact important to note that Italy remains one of the first European countries to have started the process of negotiating the price of Sofosbuvir, with the aim of identifying the best conditions for the refundability of the same charged to the National Health Service. Our country, therefore, is characterized by the prices of medicinal products refundable to the National Health Service and the lower pharmaceutical expenditure per capita compared to other European countries; this statement remains valid also in the specific case here dealt with the price of medicines with Gilead, which is in fact the most contained - confirms AIFA - in the European context. Our system is a system that, guaranteeing quality care at all costs to the health system, is constantly faced with the challenge of combining the guarantee of care with the sustainability of the same system. This last circumstance imposed, on the one hand, the adoption of criteria for access to new drugs and, on the other hand, the finding of additional and extraordinary resources, precisely in view of the high impact that hepatitis C, in particular, produces on the lives of a large number of people, being the prevalence of the disease higher in our country compared to the rest of Europe as the questioner pointed out. With this in mind, defining criteria for access to the treatment of hepatitis C virus infection through which maximum benefit can be obtained while ensuring the sustainability of the system and the fairness and homogeneity of access, was undoubtedly a priority requirement that the Agency pursued and continues to pursue with maximum determination and commitment, sharing the priorities also with the associations of patients to whom the treatment is intended. It should also be remembered that, with article 1, paragraph 593, of the law of stability for 2014, has been established, near the Ministry of Health, a Fund for the purchase of innovative drugs, with an appropriation from the State of 100 million euros for 2015 (deduced from the Fund for structural interventions of economic policy), to which are added 400 million euros always for 2015 and another 500 million for 2016, obtained instead from the quotas to bound destination already allocated for the realization of the objectives of the National Health Plan. The Minister of Health strongly wanted the establishment of the above-mentioned fund, precisely in order to allow the treatment of cases which are most urgent. However, for an effective approach to the problem, it will be necessary to start a new, broader reflection, involving a comparison and collaboration that we even want at Community level, and therefore at European level. This is a requirement which had already emerged, precisely on the initiative of Italy, during the European Semester of the Italian Presidency. On this occasion and on subsequent occasions, there has been a concrete discussion of the desirability of a negotiation procedure even at European level, which can assert the weight of the large numbers, while respecting the differences of approach that each individual State can have on the subject. It is certainly an ambitious project, which presupposes the sharing of data and experience, as well as the willingness to converge on common solutions for the Member States. Until new rules are agreed at European level to differentiate the terms of bargaining on the basis of elements such as the prevalence of a disease and the characteristics of individual pharmaceutical markets, the action of regulatory agencies (i.e. AIFA) and, more generally, national public health services will still be bound by a set of rules, often of supranational origin, which delimit the areas of national autonomy and which protect cross-border - as is well known - industrial property rights, with rules on patents that in some circumstances guarantee the owners throughout the European Union and even beyond. The task of the national authorities responsible for the protection of public health is therefore a continuous and difficult task of balancing the primary need to ensure, on the one hand, the best possible health treatment for their citizens with a careful use of the available resources and, on the other hand, the protection of the legitimate rights of companies that have invested in experimentation and research, while at the same time trying to play an important role of stimulus towards the industry in order to achieve ever higher quality levels of care. With this in mind, the action of the institutional summits of AIFA has been regulatoryly consistent with the public health objectives and proportionate to the scope of the prerogatives conferred by the law on the Agency. Finally, it does not seem unnecessary to recall and, indeed, I would like to point out that on 27 April 2016, in the XII Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, with the Government's favourable opinion (I was present), Mr Miotto's Resolution 8-00177 on transparency on the agreements concluded by AIFA with pharmaceutical companies, which, in a nutshell, commits the Government, for the future, to avoid confidentiality agreements, with the exception of extraordinary cases - motivated by the therapeutic importance and the size of the financial impact - however, considering, also in these specific circumstances, compliance with the Community guidelines and, where existing, with the EMA's indications, as well as subjecting the agreements with confidentiality clauses to the supervision of the DAC and the supervision of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u20	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr. Undersecretary, finally, reading what they wrote to you, you told the truth. I had no doubt: the secreted negotiation concerned 50,000 cases, from an epidemiological point of view. That's what she said: you treated 50,000 patients. And you have allocated, in the 2014 and 2016 budgets - I was waiting for you at the entrance! - funds for 100,000, 400,000 and 500,000 euros, all of which went to Gilead. The funds for innovative drugs only went to Gilead. You confirmed to me that the EMA, which has to give the European directives, had the same representative in Italy. So he gave the directives in Europe and also in Italy. You have then confirmed that the negotiation must be renegotiated, that you will make a new negotiation and, since, from the epidemiological point of view, the patients will be one and a half million, the drug in the next negotiation will cost 3,000 or 4,000 euros, because one thing is to cure 50,000 people and one account is to cure one and a half million. She said so now. But this negotiation, this new negotiation that you have brought back and that is in the record, could not be done right away? Could it not be said from the beginning that the cases are one and a half million and so we take care of one and a half million? We treated 50,000 of them, and do you know where they were treated? North, where there is a 3.2 percent spread of the pathology. In the South, where the spread is 12.6 percent, no one has been treated. These innovative drugs went mostly to the North. It's not fair and it's not fair. This is not how health care is unified in Italy. She talked about pay back. But I had already said that the AIFA has not yet asked the pharmaceutical industries to pull out the extra money they received because they have exceeded the budget. You read that information, they wrote it to you, but did they also tell you that AIFA has not yet cashed this money and left it to the pharmaceutical industry? Of course, Mr Margherita Miotto, who has my esteem and has been the leader of the Democratic Party in the Social Affairs Committee in the last parliamentary term, along with me, who was also the leader of the Social Affairs Committee, and who is very sensitive, presented that resolution, to which you gave a favourable opinion. But you presented it to tell her that the negotiation could not be reserved, because you cannot reserve the negotiation of the innovative drug only for hepatitis C, since then there are anticancer drugs and other drugs that are important. Do you know how many are 40,000 euros, which is the cost of the cure, for 50,000, which are the treated patients? That's 2 billion euros! Two billion went just to Gilead, to this American pharmaceutical industry in California. That is why we believe that with regard to the Innovative Medicines Fund, the Government has acted well and I am not here to criticize the Government, I am giving it the merits. But you can't let AIFA spend these funds just to pay for bad programming. I would share everything you have said, if there were no proven evidence - you said so: you gave the number of 50,000 and you said you will make a new deal - that the old bargaining had negotiated the price of the drug with a number of patients up to 50,000 and that from now on a new deal will be made. We no longer have to cry about the milk poured out, but we hope that the AIFA will be sent a competent person, who will treat like Egypt did. Mr. Undersecretary, why does the investment that Gilead has made in Egypt cost only 800 euros to cure and by us 40,000? What is this disparity? Then let's go to Egypt to heal!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u21	Question 3-03117 follows on certain managerial positions held within AIFA. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u22	Madam President, before entering into the substance of the other questions, some specific details are given regarding the setting-up by AIFA of its own stand within the Rimini Meeting of the Communion and Liberation Movement. Although I have already clarified this point in this House, on 13 October, I repeat once again, and whenever it is still necessary, that the setting up of a AIFA stand at the Rimini Meeting fair has already taken place over time, in fact it has already participated, as reported this evening, in the years 2006, 2007, 2008, as well as other state and local public administrations. In fact, AIFA reports that the choice to set up its own exhibition space within the framework of the aforementioned event must be framed in a precise investment policy in information and promotion activities, aimed at giving adequate account of the daily commitment carried out by the Agency to the protection of public health. In order to prepare the exhibition space, a regular request was made to the Office for Administrative Affairs, Accounting and Budget; a request was subsequently supplemented by an explanatory report on the reasons for the choice. The founding law of AIFA and the regulation of organisation, operation and organisation of AIFA staff provide that the Director-General, legal representative of the Agency, is the body to which the management and management powers are responsible. The appointment of the Director-General shall be carried out by decree of the Minister of Health, acting as a vigilant body and with functions of direction of the Agency, after consulting the Permanent Conference for Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. The Director-General, Dr Pani, appointed by Ministerial Decree of 8 November 2011, concluded a five-year employment contract with the Minister of Health on 14 November 2011. This contract governs the assignment and the relative legal and economic treatment. Having said that, in order to provide a clear and comprehensive answer to the questions put by the honourable Member, it is necessary to carry out a detailed reconstruction of the issues. By decision of the Director-General No 792 of 24 July 2014, a working group was set up at the AIFA to assess the qualification of the remuneration assigned to Italian representatives to the EMA Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) and, more specifically, whether or not such remuneration is recognised for the purposes of compliance with the maximum remuneration limit that an employee or self-employed person with the public administration may receive under the legislation in force in our country (Article 23-b of Decree-Law No 201 of 6 December 2011, converted by Law No 214 of 22 December 2011, and decree of the President of the Council of Ministers 23 March 2012 Following the review of the legislation that has taken place over the years, the working group established has shown that, from a formal point of view, the remuneration that the Director-General of AIFA receives for the role of Italian representative to the CHMP certainly comes from the Agency's budget and not directly from the EMA. However, from a substantial point of view, these compensations originate in the Community and must not be altered. It was therefore considered decisive, for the purposes of the investigation requested, to verify whether the concept of "compenses against public finances" includes any sum that flows into the budget of a public administration, regardless of the origin of the public administration or the existence of a destination bond (as was the case with those funds). The working group stressed that no regulatory provisions and/or interpretative document of the concept of "public finances" could be found which could in some way lead to a solution rather than to another. In the light of these considerations, the Working Party considered that it was appropriate for an interpretation of the rule defining the annual all-inclusive economic treatment of any person who received from public finances any remuneration or remuneration in the context of employee or self-employed employment relations with public administrations, in the sense that it must be considered as referring to the remuneration received from public finances and, for this reason, not directly applicable to emoluments of different origins, including the remuneration deriving from the EMA. At its meeting on 30 January 2015, the Management Board of AIFA, after examining the findings of the above-mentioned Working Group, considered that it was appropriate to investigate the issue of the vigilant ministries, in order to obtain indications that could overcome the found interpretative doubts and applicability. The views expressed on this issue by the vigilant ministries have shown, in honor of the historical reconstruction, opposing positions. Therefore, at the outcome of the meeting of the Board of Directors on 29 July 2015, the Chairman of the Board of Directors addressed a special note to the Ministry of Health aimed at assessing the appropriateness of requesting an opinion on the General Notice of the State. The Chairman of the Management Board informed the members of the Management Board by note of 31 July 2015. At its meeting of 8 September 2015, the Board of Directors decided to suspend any determination on the subject, pending the outcome of the investigations requested by the Ministry of Health, and, at the same time, not to make any payment of the compensation in question. On 3 December 2015, the General Commission of the State made the consultation requested by the Ministry. In its opinion, the General Court of the State pointed out that the framework appears complex and not uniquely defined, which may of course have generated misunderstandings or false awareness even in the case of those concerned, with the obvious consequence that any measures to recover the sums exceeding the salary ceiling, however, so far paid by the employer himself, would probably lead to disputes with a somewhat uncertain outcome. On 18 December 2015, the coordinator of the administrative area of the Agency, taking note of the contents of the opinion of the Vetting, revoked the suspension of the payment of the emoluments; suspension, which the same coordinator of the area had ordered, in autotutela, with previous note of 10 November 2015. On 29 April 2016, as a result of a specific relief raised by the College of Auditors, the Agency's Board of Directors approved the Agency's balance sheet, providing for the modification of the risk fund by introducing the item of the costs due to the Treasury, and provided for the simultaneous imposition of an item in return for the item "other revenue" relating to the claims for debit note to be issued against the Director of AIFA. At its meeting on 13 May 2016, following the members' request regarding the progress of the request for the recovery of the amounts to be forwarded to the CHMP components, the president informed the Council that the appropriate internal checks were being carried out to identify the person responsible for the procedure to be carried out. It should be pointed out at this point that on 17 June 2016, the Deputy Prosecutor General of the Court of Auditors informed that the investigation, opened on the report of the Agency's Board of Auditors, concerning the remuneration attributed to the Italian representatives at the CHMP was closed to the state of the proceedings, stating that the regulatory and interpretative framework, which is underlying the issue at hand, is particularly complex due to the various opinions given on the subject, so that it was not considered to revisit profiles seriously affected by the decisions taken in relation to the payment of the remunerations. In June 2016, the Agency also considered whether to issue appropriate debit notes in relation to amounts exceeding the limit set out in Article 23-b, taking into account that Professor Pani, in his role as Director-General of the Agency and at the same time as a member of the CHMP, cannot be regarded as a mere employee of AIFA. In the light of the above, taking into account also the Rules of organisation, administration and staff regulations of the Italian Agency of the drug, it has been pointed out that none of the offices of the AIFA could be given the functional competence to initiate and manage the procedure for issuing debit notes against persons who are not employees of the Agency. Nor does this competence appear to fall within the scope of Articles 6 and 10 (2) (e) of Ministerial Decree No 245 of 2004, respectively, of the Administrative Board and the Director-General of AIFA, especially since the task of issuing the note could not have been exercised by the latter for the existence of a clear conflict of interest. It was therefore considered appropriate to refer the matter to the Ministry of Health in order to obtain clarification of the necessity and the correct procedure for initiating the procedure. The Ministry has considered it appropriate to request a new opinion of the General Commission of the State on the subject, which has expressed itself confirming that the objective complexity of the issue - I emphasize: complexity of the matter - together with a particularly complex and not uniquely defined regulatory framework, contributes to making the claim for recovery of the sums paid uncertain. In this context of particular uncertainty, the initiative of the executive of the area coordination administrative affairs, accounting and budget, which on 29 August, sent the director of the AIFA debt note, ex Article 1219 of the Civil Code, is inserted. With regard to the specific question relating to the position of Dr. Torre, I note the following: on 11 July 2016, pursuant to Article 32 of the Regulation on the organisation, operation and organisation of AIFA staff, the procedure for the provision of management posts of a non-general level was initiated, and the tasks assigned by the reorganisation failed. Following the results of the selection of the CVs presented and the interviews held on 25 July and 26 July 2016, the Director-General considered it appropriate not to confer any duties on Dr Giovanni Torre, former director of the Agency's administrative affairs office and in command at AIFA, taking into account the fact that, when adapting the organisational structure to the new regulation, the functions of the accounting and balance sheet office have been relocated in the framework of the new provisions. On 1 August 2016, the same Directorate-General of AIFA promptly communicated to the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology, the institute of origin of Dr. Torre, in order to put an end to the command of the same. Taking into account the facts, as well as tiringly, in detail and chronologically I wanted to describe, it seems therefore, also in this case, incorrect to speak of unilateral revocation of the command of Dr. Torre or of the removal of the same by the Agency, relating it to the debit note pursuant to Article 1219 of the Civil Code. The facts show that the actions put in place by the Chairperson of the Agency's Management Board were timely and aimed at resolving the problem at the time when the Agency expressed itself. Once again, it is worth pointing out that, both in the opinion of the State's Advocate General and in the notification of the Court of Auditors' filing, the legal framework underlying this complex matter of recovery is defined, precisely: "complex and not uniquely defined" and also particularly difficult in its interpretation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u25	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, I hope now to explain what the Undersecretary has said to us in political terms. The Director-General was given EUR 240,000 more. The Management Board of AIFA, following a report from the College of Auditors and two opinions expressed by the General Accounting Office of the State, notes that the latter, instead of 240,000 euros per year, received 500,000 euros. He asks and deliberates the recovery of the surplus, as it has to be done and, after four months, a poor wretched man who asks "untimely" for recovery, Dr. Torre, is thrown out. He, after all the deliberations, executes what is deliberate and, by lesa majesty, is expelled from AIFA, because, as has rightly been said, he was a detached from the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology. Mr. Polifrone also came from another entity (the Council), but he aligned himself so everything is fine: he can stay, because he does the interests of AIFA. The board of directors puts in the 2015 budget the sum of 647,000 euros in debt to the treasury for sums received in addition by the general manager Luca Pani, with simultaneous note of debt to the general manager that an official does nothing but notify. At this point, you send a note to the chief of staff, Dr. Chiné, because he's the one who has to watch. But you didn't watch to see that there was a gentleman taking 500,000 euros? To us they challenge every day the costs of politics because they say that to receive 90,000 euros the year of basic salary is too much, even if it is tied to the income of a first judge of Cassation and there is a general manager who takes 500,000 euros. Mr. Undersecretary, we're talking half a million! There's someone who notices and gets stuck, and that's where the odyssey begins. I do not believe that there has been any maliciousness, I agree with the Court of Auditors, but I ask that Dr Pani return this money, which was also budgeted in 2015. Why to cast out what "untimely" has notified the debt note to Dr. Pani, although this was transmitted four months after the resolution voted unanimously by the board of directors chaired by Melazzini? These are punishments that can't be seen in a drug agency. Those who prepared the answer tried to confuse it, while I said it in more understandable terms, as I say in more understandable terms that the AIFA is an agency that must not promote anything. You don't have to spend anything on promoting yourself. You don't have to finance anyone. It must control and prevent the pharmaceutical industries from taking advantage of it and preventing the treatment of the sick. That's all you have to do. That is all I wanted to say in my question. You know how much you appreciate it and I know that you have no responsibility, but the chief of staff, Chine and the minister, knew things and after a decision of the board of directors you cannot play the game of the three cards to ensure that they are not unduly paid back, even if certainly not arson, or manslaughter. It was a mistake and, as the Court of Auditors said, mistakes must be remedied, even if this is a EUR 647,000 remedy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u26	The following are questions 3-00489 and 3-03135 on the reimbursement of the expenses of the judicial offices to the Italian municipalities. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u27	Madam President, by means of the acts of inspection union under discussion, Senator Lo Giudice emphasizes - in the context prior to the transfer to the Ministry of Justice of the operating expenses of the judicial offices - the needs of the municipalities in relation to the liquidation of contributions relating to previous years, due as a result of Law No 392 of 1941. In order to solve the problems identified, in the same perspective outlined by the questioner, the law of stability for 2015 has, as you know, radically innovated the discipline of the expenditure functions related to the management of the judicial offices, offering the opportunity - once faced with the emergency - to build a new model of greater efficiency, equity and economic savings. The Ministry of Justice has taken on, since the immediacy, a series of preparatory initiatives, with the aim of facilitating the inevitable transfer of functions, planned and actually entered into force from 1 September 2015, adopting new organizational measures aimed at ensuring the continuity of services and judicial activity. With a view to collecting, through the method of comparison, contributions from stakeholders involved in the implementation of the new management model, a permanent technical table was established, open to the administrations concerned, for the consistent definition of the central government policy guidelines and for the monitoring of the activities necessary for its consistent implementation. In particular, a fruitful intercourse has been initiated and consolidated with the institutional bodies involved, in particular with the ANCI, the National Association of Italian Municipalities, thanks to which a framework convention was jointly adopted, experimenting with the practicability of forms of collaboration between central administration and peripheral administrations in terms of assistance and support. Moreover, the Regulation on organisational measures at the central and peripheral level, published in the Official Journal of 29 August 2015, has been adopted, which assumes the particular function - in the general framework delivered by the law of stability 2015 and by the new regulation of organization of the entire ministerial apparatus - of preparing the necessary measures to identify the functionally competent subjects to define the decision-making process of expenditure, to outline its tasks and to define its relations with the central administration. To this must be added how, with a view to ensuring the continuity of the services previously carried out by the staff of the Municipalities already seconded, commanded or in any case specifically destined to the judicial offices, the possibility of continuing to avail of the same staff, on the basis of agreements or conventions, has been provided for. Finally, it should be stressed that the Ministry of Justice is also actively engaged in the promotion of the training activities of those involved in the spending process, in line with the initiatives taken by the High School of the judiciary. And it is precisely thanks to the support of the municipalities and the synergies developed at the local level that the transition took place without highlighting particular disservices, despite the inevitable difficulties that change has brought. In the transition to the new management model, therefore, the definition of the contributions still due to the municipalities by virtue of the previous direct management of the expenditure is included. In this regard, I would point out that precisely the prospect of a correct start to the new system of operating expenses of the judicial offices has oriented the commitment of the Ministry in the regulation, definitively and as soon as possible, the previous positions with the municipalities, in the legislative framework of reference and with the financial limits dictated by the norms that have regulated the quantification and the liquidation of the refunds. According to Article 1 of the Decree of the President of the Republic No 187 of 1998, in fact, the determination of the contribution to be made to the municipalities was to be assumed, annually, by decree of the Minister of Justice, adopted in agreement with the Minister of Economy and Finance and with the Minister of the Interior, on the basis of the conclusions of the expenses actually incurred. In order to align the economic and financial policy choices with the general objectives of containing public expenditure set also within the Community, Decree-Law No 95 of 6 July 2012, had foreseen for the Ministry of Justice savings not less than 30 million euros for the year 2012 and 70 million euros from the year 2013, in terms of lower contributions to the Municipalities for the operating expenses of the judicial offices. In the outlined regulatory framework, the timing and extent of the contributions payable were essentially conditioned by the saving measures provided for in the aforementioned decree-law: in addition to having to wait for the expenses to be indicated at the end of the municipal budgets and subject to the scrutiny of the maintenance commissions, the liquidation had to be subsequently arranged by interministerial decree and according to strict percentages of reimbursement. With reference to the credits accrued by the Municipalities for the year 2012, from the information assumed at the Ministry of Economy and Finance and through the competent ministerial articulations, it is understood that the interministerial decree has made available a sum of about 77 million euros, to be charged to the financial year 2013. For the same year had already been paid, by decree of the competent director general of this Dicastery of 5 March 2014, a deposit of approximately 65 million euros. The same interministerial decree determined, in about 25.88% of the expenses actually incurred by the municipalities, the measure of the refund liquidable. By decree of the Director-General of this Dicastery of 7 December 2015 the balance was paid out and, for some municipalities, the amount of the surplus was reduced compared to the contribution actually determined, paid in advance for the previous year. Also the decree for the expenses incurred in the year 2013 was signed by the three competent Ministers and has therefore been cleared the relative balance. In order to meet the difficulties represented by the municipalities, the Directorate-General for Resources has ordered, by decree taken on 12 February 2016, the payment of the down payment for the expenses incurred in 2014, determined according to the parameters relating to the contribution cleared, definitively, for the year 2012. The interministerial decree of determination of the contribution due to the municipalities for the year of expenditure 2014 has already been submitted to the signature of the Minister of Justice and is currently signed by the Minister of the Interior and will then be forwarded to the Minister of Economy and Finance. As soon as this last fulfillment has been completed, provision will be made to the municipalities entitled to the outstanding balance. In order to determine the contributions due until 31 August 2015, the municipal accounts are being examined. The budget allocation in the estimates of the Ministry of Justice is also EUR 111 million for 2014 and EUR 133 million for 2015. Since 1 September 2015, in the light of the provisions of the Stability Act for 2015, for the payment of the fees, as well as for the other expenses of the judicial offices, the Courts of Appeal have been delegated. Within the framework outlined above, the contributions paid to the Municipality of Bologna for the expenses incurred for the judicial offices are as follows: for the year 2012 the Municipality of Bologna received a contribution of 2,836,045.87 euros, divided into 2,720,232.14 euros of down payment and 115,813.73 euros per balance, against a statement, net of the reliefs, equal to 10,958,446,18 euros. For the purpose of determining the contribution, the percentage of 25.88% has been applied, which, as has already been pointed out, is established at national level, taking into account, as well as the amounts relating to the reports submitted, also the allocation on the chapter for the reference financial year. For the year 2013, the Municipality of Bologna received a contribution of € 3,613,507,38, divided into € 3,090,699,07 down payment and € 522,808,31 per balance, against a statement, net of the reliefs, equal to € 10,050,779,15. For the determination of the contribution, the percentage of 35,952 per cent has been applied, established according to the parameters already highlighted. For the year 2014, against a statement submitted by the Municipality of Bologna, net of the reliefs, amounting to € 9,423,746,72, the contribution was determined in the measure of euro 4,197,043,83, applying the percentage of 44,536 percent, and has already been paid a deposit of euro 1,985,232,11. For the year 2015, until the date of August 31, 2015, the contribution due to the Municipality of Bologna is not yet determined or determinable, pending the total examination of the financial statements. In the light of the data presented, it is intended to reassure that all initiatives will be put in place that can meet, to the most appropriate extent, the expectations of the Municipal Offices of the judicial offices. In the context of the preparatory work for the public finance maneuver for 2017-2019, finally, initiatives are being examined by the Government aimed at ensuring resources, for the total amount of about 300 million euros, destined to repay the remaining total debt to the municipalities for the reimbursement of the operating expenses of the judicial offices until 31 August 2015.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u30	THE COURT (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Migliore for his detailed answer to my two questions. With regard to the first, which was dated November 2013, the reply came a little 'long (as it was said), but the important thing is that the central request of that question, that is, to exceed the law of 1941 that asked the municipalities to anticipate the expenses for the judicial offices, in this period of time has been actually substantially modified by law n. 190 of 2014, which precisely determines that the expenses for the judicial offices in the territories are borne directly by the Ministry of Justice. This is, therefore, a very important fact which restores a very atypical situation, because they blamed themselves on the common expenditures which in fact did not fall within their competence. I am also grateful to the Undersecretary Migliore for having announced here that, in the financial maneuver 2017-2019, the Government is working for the appropriation of 300 million euros to finally close the lot of refunds to the municipalities for expenses previously anticipated. In fact, I would like to remind you that, if Law No 190 of 2014, that is, that which brings back to the Ministry of Justice the incurred expenses for the judicial offices, has entered into force on 1 September 2015, there are still previous debts to be settled against the Municipalities. The amount allocated is certainly very important, and that is a good thing. However, there is one element on which I would like to raise my attention and re-launch a request to the Government for particular attention on this issue. The law of 1941 asked the municipalities not to support, but to anticipate expenses that were the responsibility of the Government. Article 110 of the Constitution is clear when it says that the operation of judicial offices is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. Until a few years ago, these expenses were reimbursed to an extent of around 80%, and therefore never in full, but to an extent adequate to cover substantially the advance expenditure, asking the Municipal offices for an effort to cover the full amount of that amount, which often in reality was reduced to rents named unsold. But, as a result of measures whose start is certainly not attributable to this Government (Law No. 95 of 2012, which before the Undersecretary Migliore cited, is the law on spending review signed by the Monti Government) and, at the time when the country decided to put its hands on the public accounts and to activate stringent measures of revision of the expenditure, a mechanism has been activated that I continue to find improper. In other words, funds have been cut off from the Ministry of Justice so that it can cover the advances of the municipalities, bringing the reimbursement of those expenses to the measures that the Undersecretary Migliore mentioned earlier: 25 percent in 2012, 36 percent in 2013, 44 percent in 2014. The rest of these figures remained uncovered expenditure by the municipalities. From here comes also the difference between a debt that, compared to the coffers of the Municipalities, is quantified in substantial figures (the municipality of Bologna speaks of 40 million due by the Ministry of Justice) and a very small quantification made by the Ministry compared to those same figures, because calibrated precisely on those percentages. I hope that there will be a second thought on this. The Municipality of Bologna - it was the reason that prompted me to present this new question on a subject on which I had already asked the Government several times before - appealed to the TAR against the Ministry of Justice for that figure. Before the Municipality of Bologna, the Municipalities of Lecce and Ragusa had also followed the same path, with positive results, in the sense that the TAR had given right to those Municipalities that demanded a real and integral refund of advances. So, just as an improper situation, which led to a shift of powers between the State and local authorities, has been remedied from the regulatory point of view, and as well as, with respect to the substantial amount announced, a significant refund can be given to the municipalities, I hope the following. With the same good will and determination with which the Ministry of Justice in recent years has made the machinery of justice more efficient, both from the organisational and administrative point of view and from the regulatory review on criminal and civil justice, it will also be possible to heal the distinction and difference of views between some municipalities that have posed the issue and the Ministry of Justice. And I hope that this will be done outside the courtrooms. I believe that a dispute at the TAR between a municipality and the government is an irrational way that politics should be able to overcome. I therefore welcome the Secretary of State's announcement of the appropriation and hope that there will be a rethinking of whether or not the figures previously anticipated will be returned to the municipalities in full, at least with more substantial percentages.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u31	The questioning and questioning of the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u32	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-712.ana.u33	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 2 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.29 p.m.
