ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.42 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u4	Colleagues, as is well known, today's agenda includes, among other things, the examination of a document whose outcome could affect both the personal freedom of a senator and the composition of this House, and I believe that this issue should have priority over others. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, pursuant to Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I have the reverse of the agenda in order to anticipate the examination of document IV, n. 14.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for authorization to execute the order of custody in prison issued by the judge for preliminary investigations against Senator Antonio Stefano Caridi in the context of criminal proceedings (No. 9339/2009 RGNR DDA - No. 5448/2010 RGGip DDA - No. 50/2015 ROCC DDA) The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I remember that the Junta resolved to propose to the Senate the granting of authorization to execute the order of custody in prison against Senator Antonio Stefano Caridi, pursuant to article 68, second paragraph of the Constitution. (Senators Malan and Falanga repeatedly ask to intervene.) I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stefano, if he wishes to speak. ( [[Comments from FI-PdL XVII, GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and AL-A Groups.]] GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). There's no Duce here! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I wanted to see Senator Stephen's presence. FALANGA (AL-A). President. - The next item is the report (Doc. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I get it!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u8	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as the order of business has changed, I propose, in accordance with the same Rule of the Senate Rules of Procedure, that the agenda be further reversed in order to continue the examination of the draft law on publishing, which we started voting on yesterday. This is an awaited measure, on which we have worked intensively in the Commission. The other measures on the agenda are as follows: The timetable, which provides for the priority of examining the publication measure, which has already been preceded by two other items on the agenda, was voted by a majority at the Conference of the Leaders. When the timetable was approved following the last Conference of Leaders, there was a proposal made by some of my colleagues to anticipate the examination of the Junta's documents and this proposal was rejected by a large majority by the Assembly. Again, yesterday, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement proposed to put before the debate the documents hesitated by the Junta to examine the provision on publishing, but the proposal was made at a time when it was not possible to do so: I am surprised that this proposal has now been taken over by the Presidency, but it is in its power. I therefore propose that we maintain the timetable which has been approved not only by the formal vote of the Conference of Leaders, but also by a double vote of the Assembly, by a large majority, and by agreements reached between the Groups, on the basis of which the work in the Commission has been carried out in a certain way. As is well known and as has been well seen in the course of the many voting operations carried out yesterday, the provision on publishing does not enthuse us; we have largely voted against the most important aspects, but we believe that we must nevertheless proceed in the examination of the measure. We didn't even do the shadow of obstruction. We have spoken on the substance of some of the amendments and others have spoken more than we have. Therefore, I repeat the request for a further reversal of the agenda, as opposed to the one you have proposed, Mr President, by putting the issue of publishing first.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u11	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, at this moment, Senator Barani is presenting to the Bureau a proposal which I signed first and signed by all members of the AL-A Group, aimed at amending Rule 19 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure as an exceptional transitional rule, which gives the Presidency the power to appoint members of the Assembly for parliamentary elections and immunities and places a clear and absolute ban, also for the Bureau (and therefore for the President) to replace the members of the Junta during the parliamentary term and, even more so, to integrate it with additional components. Mr President, in this Senate there is a parliamentary group, regularly formed and authorised by the Presidency, composed of 18 senators, who are not represented in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. So there are 18 senators in this House who do not know a comma of the acts in support of the next decisions that we will have to take. That is to say that we (which at this time, as I have also said in other forums, have a judicial function in my view, as I believe the Junta also has of parliamentary elections and immunity) should decide without a representative of ours informing us about what should have been and could read in the work of the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunities. Mr President, my name is not Zanda. My name is Falanga. I would remind you, however, that President Zanda, at the beginning of his term of office, made a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure as the first signatory. I have never copied from other acts and I have always tried to engage my imagination and my knowledge, unless I had the doubt that who would then have to decide, would have done so - alas - also and above all on the basis of the author of the request. That is why I have taken the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure put forward by Senators Zanda, Schifani, Mario Mauro and Laniece, which asked the Council for the Rules of Procedure to derogate from the article on the composition of the Senate Presidency Council, giving the possibility to appoint other Secretary Senators, in order to have a Presidency Council in which all the newly constituted Groups were represented. The proposed amendment expressly states that this requirement for amendment was based on the fact that, during the parliamentary term, another parliamentary group had been set up, so it was necessary to derogate from the general rule of the article of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate in order to allow the appointment of other members. Mr President, this morning, on behalf of the AL-A Group as a whole, I presented to the Offices this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure and, as did my colleagues in the Democratic Party and President Schifani, I imagined it as an exceptional and transitional rule for the integration of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. In essence, I asked the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to amend Rule 19, which states that: The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities is composed of twenty-three Senators and is presided over by a senator elected by the Council from among its members. The second paragraph of this article, and here is the sensitive point, states that the Senators are appointed by the President of the Senate and that they may not refuse the appointment or resign. Since the election committee, Mr President, has a very delicate function, as I said earlier, that, in my opinion, as I repeat - and I say this by assuming the paternity of what I say - it also has a judicial nature, how is it possible that in a Senate body with such delicate functions, a group of 18 senators, regularly and ritually constituted, does not have representation? Mr President, it is a case that you cannot overlook. This morning we are unable to express an accomplished and serious vote and conviction, especially if what we are going to decide is to limit the constitutional right, guaranteed by the Constitution, of personal freedom. For this reason, Mr President, I have to oppose very subtlely the decision taken by the Presidency to reverse the order of business, in order to allow the Offices to work and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to evaluate my proposal, our proposal, and to ensure that a final report, a suggestion, comes out of the Junta, which is the result of the contribution of all the political forces present in the Senate. I have referred to the fact that my name is not Zanda, so that I may believe, Mr President, even though I have a feeling of low respect and consideration and esteem towards your lordship and the entire Bureau, I am convinced that political logic will ensure that this proposal remains covered up and continues to consume a substantial injustice within this Senate of the Republic. An injustice which, rather than achieving effects on our 18 people, will have an effect on those who - alas - will not be able to have our modest contribution in the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys to move the balance needle to one side or the other. I trust you. You have been a magistrate and you will understand, Mr President, that my request is correct and that, if the same request for Senators Zanda and Schifani has been considered right, today it cannot be wrong for me. Otherwise, that respect I've been telling you about, and I'm giving you a guarantee, could seriously waver. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u12	Senator Falanga, your request will certainly be examined. I have to say that this problem arises because there is a rise in new Groups and changes within Groups; therefore, theoretically, all the bodies that assist the Presidency and, however, the Senate administration should, from time to time, change in relation to the creation of new Groups or the disappearance of old Groups. The Rules of Procedure are clear on this point in Rule 19. Pending the evaluation of your request, which deserves, like all the others, an in-depth evaluation, we will continue with the speeches on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u15	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to make a statement which is not ritual. I do this with absolute respect for your decision. I believe that, with this decision, taken pursuant to Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, she expresses an absolutely possible and relevant opinion. In parliamentary history, arrest has always been allowed in the presence of serious crimes. She, with her experience, considers this a serious crime, even though, among other things, it has been established by a law that we passed quite recently, that regulates in the penal code the equalization of the crime of mafia to that of terrorism and therefore affirms a gravity so that these decisions must be taken immediately. Let me just look at a few details. The first is that always, in parliamentary history, when the President takes these decisions under the prerogatives conferred on him by the Rules of Procedure, he does so by submitting to the House his decision so that it is confirmed and shared and in this sense I do not believe that the House will deny it, as the majority is conformed and therefore for the relationship between the majority and the opposition existing: but I would invite him to do this to confirm a practice and to strengthen the decision. At the same time, I see another very important detail. The schedule of proceedings provided for the handling of the documents drawn up by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to follow with respect to the measure we are dealing with. In this sense, Senator Caridi, who belongs to my Group, who has the right to speak, was prepared, and it would be good for me to do so with regard to all the members, but he is not in the Chamber and has not prepared himself, so perhaps it would be appropriate for the House and the Presidency to give us time to prepare for this. Another less important issue, but of great importance in any case, is that the document on the decision on which you invite the House to speak is only ready for the House this morning. It is a report of great importance, as we have agreed in the sense of your request and the prologue of my speech, and I believe that the senators should be placed in a position to study it for at least some time, since it is only available this morning. This has always been done: there is no precedent other than this procedure. Senator Palma has repeatedly observed, on the contrary, that this is restrictive of parliamentary activity and therefore, in supporting the decision-making capacity, because the senators are not placed in a position to examine all the documents that are available to the members of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, I hope that at least they can read this document calmly and that they do not rely only on the rapporteur's report, albeit excellent, completed and certainly adopted, and on the speeches of the senators who might be a bit biased. I remind you that there is no timetable for the end of the sitting of this House (and we are all prepared to do so) and that the discussion of other similar cases has committed us for a few hours, so this would lead to a somewhat schizophrenic development of the work of this House, in the sense that we should resume the examination of an important measure after another document has been dealt with long enough. As was the case yesterday, when we have already examined Article 1 of the draft law on publishing in a short time, I believe that the Assembly can undertake to conclude the examination of this measure within a good time of the morning and then to proceed calmly, in the presence of Senator Caridi and having examined the texts, to the examination of the document of the Junta. I therefore make two requests: if you consider it, follow the practice and submit your decision to the vote of the Assembly, to ensure that a constant practice is followed in past legislation; in the alternative, allow some time to read the document and for Senator Caridi to be present.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u18	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, without prejudice to your prerogatives, on which we absolutely cannot tell you anything, we would like to highlight the prerogatives of a Conference of the Leaders, which had voted on an agenda, not least because there was a need to draw up the documents of the election committee and I must say that the Commission has worked very hard and with great effort to arrive at the definition of these documents. However, it is not that you have made us vote on a timetable in which these acts were so procrastinated over time: they are positioned exactly after the draft law on publishing, a measure which, among other things, we all considered extremely important. Therefore, since we do not have a closing time for today's sitting, we have plenty of time to calmly carry out all the items on the agenda, which we have drawn up together, of which, above all, the necessary documents have already been produced. I would ask you for a surplus of attention in relation to a calendar voted by a majority at the Conference of the Leaders and also by this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u21	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, the order of our work was quite unusual this morning. As you certainly know, it was planned - and I believe it is still taking place - to hold a not important but very important session of the Joint Committees on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Argument (I say it without emphasis): war. Now, we have very much defined the relationship between the work of this House and the work of the Commission, precisely with regard to the meetings of the Council of Authorisations to proceed. It seems to me that you have repeatedly referred to the rule that the Commission should be able to meet and discuss even if the House is meeting, provided that we do not vote. And how did you, Mr Grasso, at 8.30 a.m. this morning, when I believe that Mr Casini and Mr Latorre are still there, know that it would not be decided whether an address document - on war, I repeat - could be voted on or not, postponed to August, at the hearing of the Mogherini and what else, or submitted to the House, in this matter? Mr President, with all due respect, I can only judge the decision you have communicated to this House to be incorrect in relation to your duties, since all the senators, with a view to voting on a reversal of the agenda which the Members of the 5 Star Movement had announced yesterday, had abandoned, except for Casini and Latorre, the work of the Commission. Mr President, I ask you, then: can we conduct the work of this House in relation to the other responsibilities of the Senate and the senators with such precariousness, with such occasionality? I can only respect your prerogatives, your person and even your decision or proposal; but, frankly, I must also tell you that it is quite offensive to what is generally the guarantee figure of the President of the Senate. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] Of course, as Mrs Bianconi very well pointed out, the Conference of Leaders had provided for the possibility that, when the work in the Junta was completed, the Assembly would at some point open up to the results of the Junta. But there was a colleague who now, before me (not by chance a member of the Junta), had the honesty of a senator - let's stop with intellectual honesty, because the honesty of a Member of Parliament is more important - to remind himself and us that that document before this morning was not ready and that that document seems to have been drawn up before, on yesterday's day, by Mr Caridi, a document was brought to the attention of the Junta no less important, concerning the fact that the so-called repentant, who refused to be present at a certain interview on a certain date, on that date was kept in prison. Do you not then feel that your proposal is too hasty, too hasty, too unrespectful of the work of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committees and the Publishing Act? This is a subject of great delicacy and importance, which requires further study. We cannot lie down on the fact, with honesty here too senatorial, that last week five-star colleagues told us that they would vote in favour of the arrest permits, for anyone and anyhow. A legitimate position, but we cannot exploit the position of a large core of a large group to organize tactics and calendar gymnastics that, made by the Presidency, seek and I fear, manage to undermine the role of guarantee that the Presidency is responsible for. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u22	For information, the Commissions have long since finished their work. [[Comments of Senator Comrade]] Since there are no other requests for intervention, I would like to thank Senator Stefano for his contribution on the order of business and, remaining firm on my decisions, I give the floor to Senator Stefano. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). But how? There's a request! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Your request runs counter to the decision of the Presidency, Senator Malan. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to make a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. And let's see the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u25	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure allows you to take the decision you have just taken, but I remember the relevance of the decision you took, the fact that the schedule was decided at the Conference of the Leaders, and also the fact that it seems to me that Senator Mario Ferrara said that the presence of Senator Caridi was necessary and was not expected to come at this time. In short, I would like to remind you of the sum of all the objective difficulties that exist and the surprise, Mr President, that this House is showing you, with regard to the decision it made, referring to a paragraph that is certainly existing, since the House had prepared itself to examine the timetable as decided by the Group Leader. There were no obstructive procedures in place, there was nothing to suggest that the timetable established by the Conference of Leaders could not be concluded. I therefore ask you formally to convene the Conference of Leaders to discuss your proposal to amend the timetable for the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u26	Senator Paolo Romani, if the theme of the Conference of Leaders is my decision, I am sorry but there is no reason to call you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u27	It is not his decision, but the change in the timetable for the work of this House. If the timetable was decided at the Conference of the Leaders, I think it is right that it should be changed in the same place where all the Leaders can express their views on your proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u28	Senator Paolo Romani, as you teach me, this is not a calendar change but only a reversal of the agenda. The subject we are about to discuss is already on the agenda, so it is not a timetable change. I merely referred to an item which was already scheduled for discussion. The agenda has already been decided by the Conference of the Leaders, so I do not think that I should have to convene the Conference again for this reason.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u31	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I take note of your decision and I do so, having learned it, like the whole of this House, at the time when you communicated it to us here. Allow me to make just two points. The first is the recognition at the Senate Assembly of the quality of the work carried out in this final phase of the summer session. The Senate Assembly has worked very intensely, outside the usual times; it has worked with a lot of responsibility, there has never been on the part of anyone - not even on the part of the opposition - any moment of obstruction. I believe that we, at this moment, must acknowledge this House. I would like to point out that for this reason, I suggested that my colleagues in the opposition who had suggested in the last few days the possibility of speaking on the agenda should not change it, because it seemed to me that following the agenda, in accordance with the way in which the House had dealt with it, would have helped the progress of our work. Secondly, there are moments in Parliament's life when Parliament itself is called upon to make very difficult choices, of great responsibility and of great seriousness. This is one of those moments. I am sure that the Senate Assembly will continue to express itself according to conscience, according to law, according to the sense of the State also in the decisions that we are called upon to take this morning. Therefore, I repeat - and I conclude - that our Rules of Procedure are very clear: the decision taken is a decision of the President, of which I take note. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u33	I would remind my fellow Members that one Senator per Group will be able to speak in the discussion on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u34	You have the floor, Senator Buemi. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would simply like to ask a question which I believe concerns your decision, but also your conscience and your former role as magistrate. In recent days, when we examined the issue of Mr Giarrusso, you took responsibility for postponing the matter until the next day, because Mr Giarrusso was absent from this House on a mission. ENDRIZZI (M5S). On a mission with the Anti-Mafia Commission! BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Now, I believe that, in view of a timetable for the work of this House which has been established in recent days, we must give Mr Caridi the opportunity to leave the Chamber until the matter that concerns him is dealt with. The reversal of your order of business on the basis of the powers conferred on you by the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, has changed this situation. Mr Caridi is not here and I ask you, therefore, to maintain the previous situation, so as to guarantee him the same treatment that was granted to Mr Giarrusso. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and LAG (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL).]] One was on a mission, but the other, until half an hour ago, knew that the work of this House would take place according to the order previously indicated, namely first the examination of the measure that we had begun to discuss yesterday, then the discussion of the issue concerning Mr Minzolini and, subsequently, his. Mr President, you are no longer a magistrate and this may be an advantage or disadvantage for the country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL).]] However, he is the President of this Senate and I urge you to adopt consistent and equal attitudes towards all members of this branch of Parliament. Without looking to the future, President, let us look to the present, because it is in the present that they do justice or injustice: the future is in the hands of others. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, FI-PdL XVII and GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u35	Thank you, Senator Buemi. I would point out to you, however, that it has been about fifty minutes since the reverse of the agenda was announced. [[Live comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] Senator Caridi has the right, at any time of the procedure that will begin, to speak and to advance his defenses. The procedure will be long: there will be a report, then there will be a debate and there will be explanations of vote. I therefore guarantee that, at any time Senator Caridi will come to this House, he will have the power to speak, even outside the moments of the procedure when it is possible to do so. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] That's what I'm telling you. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Barani points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Falanga has already spoken. Mr Barani (AL-A). He did not speak on the subject, but on an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll give you the floor as a group leader.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u36	Thank you, President. You see, I'm a doctor in life... Even the senator, I hope. My profession is that of the doctor and, before administering a therapy, I try to make a diagnosis with an objective examination, making a history based on laboratory tests, because otherwise I would risk damaging the life of the patient. My group, Mr President, as Senator Falanga said earlier, is not a member of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities: we have not seen a document, we know nothing. We are reckless about everything, while we would like to be able to see the cards for at least a few hours, to understand what we are talking about. As a doctor, in fact, he has to do an objective examination, laboratory analysis and a diagnosis before giving a therapy; my Group must be able to see the papers before making a vote. That is democracy. I hope, Mr President, that in his life as a magistrate, when he made a sentence, he did not do it in a closed box and looked at the acts. [[Applause from the AL-A and FI-PdL XVII Group]] I hope so, because that is democracy and you are damaging democracy here. You cannot afford to come here one morning and say that you have made a decision (on pressure we know for whom, perhaps you will owe him a thank you).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u37	I do not allow you to put forward assumptions and, in particular, to put forward assumptions of pressure. [[Applause from the PD Group. Live comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] I won't let you, Senator!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u38	Look, there's already been someone who killed Matteotti. It means someone's gonna kill me, because you can't threaten me here, because I'm talking as a senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u39	Do I threaten? You're the one proposing unspeakable things.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u40	Mr Barani (AL-A). I am saying that we are in democracy and you must put my Group in a position to see the cards. If he doesn't, he doesn't act like president. I'm telling you aloud, because I'm a socialist and I'm certainly not afraid of you! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u41	Senator Barani, no one wants to scare you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u42	Mr Barani (AL-A). He did something this morning that a president shouldn't be able to do. My group is officially asking you for a meeting of the Conference of Leaders, as someone else has already done. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have already answered that question. Mr Barani (AL-A). Nice democracy!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u43	Senator Barani, if his group had been present at the beginning of the legislature, he would have had his representation in the Assembly of the elections, like all the groups then present. As long as we do not change the Rules of Procedure, there is no possibility. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You think that there are senators who have resigned from the Junta, but their resignation has not been accepted because they must remain because this is how the Rules of Procedure are established. Therefore, I am applying the Rules of Procedure. As long as it is not amended, it must be applied as it is.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u44	I would once again ask the rapporteur, Senator Stefano, whether he intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the written report on the details of the facts contained in the request by the judiciary. Today, in view of the seriousness of the measure, I shall refer to the reasons which led the majority of the Junta to accept my proposal. As a preliminary point, I would like to reiterate, once again, that with reference to a request for a restrictive measure of the personal freedoms of a senator, the Junta must concentrate on its own competence, that is to say, a serene and objective investigation of the recurrence or not of elements capable of causing to overshadow, in the first place, a fumus persecutionis towards the senator concerned, deducible - except abnormous and unlikely cases of subjectivistic "dolous" persecution of magistrates towards a parliamentarians - from the objective contents of the act referred to in the request for authorisation. As you know, Senator Caridi has been applied Article 275 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which currently provides, for crimes of Mafia association, the presumption of adequacy of custody in prison. In particular, the legislator has established that, for such offences, in the event of serious evidence of guilt, the choice of the judge is bound in the sense that ex lege takes over a presumption of the adequacy of prison custody alone to meet the preventive requirements. This is therefore done by way of derogation from the principle of detention as an extreme ratio. In this regard, the analysis of the Junta focused in particular on the reasonableness and plausibility of the crime contested by Senator Caridi, which in itself entails the restrictive consequences in terms of personal freedom. Well, the inditiary material (called and summarized by the judge of preliminary investigations on pages 1.939 et seq. of the order) would appear to the state to confirm the affiliation of Senator Caridi to the Cosca De Stefano, which would seem to have supported him in various electoral competitions, thanks to the relationship that existed - at least initially - between him and Dr. Chirico. In this regard, during the hearing before the Junta, Senator Caridi pointed out that he was always elected City Councillor, among other things from the age of twenty-six, but that he was rejected in two electoral competitions for the Regional Council (2000 and 2005), in which also, as is well known, the preferred vote is valid, and he was elected only to the third attempt (in 2010). This defensive argument, albeit suggestive, risks being, however, a sort of false syllogism in the opinion of the rapporteur (missing election "equal" lack of support), in the sense that the electoral support of the association could well have been there in concrete, but not been sufficient to a positive outcome, especially since the gip referred to a mere role of executive affiliation. Therefore, at a careful reading of the reasons put forward by the requesting judiciary, it appears that the circumstantial picture outlined in the more than 2,000 pages of the judge's order for preliminary investigations is particularly complex and serious. But it's not enough. It should also be pointed out that the disdainable element of a possible flattening of the gip compared to the requests of the prosecutor has not emerged. On the contrary, there is a certain dialecticity of positions, since the gip, in bringing back its final assessments in relation to the position of Senator Caridi, has considered to requalify the head of indictment formulated by the public accusation against the latter, with the crime referred to in Article 416-a, paragraphs 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 of the penal code, thus excluding paragraph 2 of the same article. The gip has in fact considered that the segments of conduct described, attributable to Senator Caridi, indicate a differentiation from the positions of the investigated Romeo, De Stefano and Sarra, to which it belongs (especially to the first two) function of strategic direction and planning accompanied by deliberate powers of the Mafia associative constitution. Basically, in fact, Senator Caridi would prove to be the merely executive part of the criminal project, the executor of the deliberate Romeo and De Stefano, to what the gip affirms. At the same time, acting as an executive instrument of the program, he would have acquired contacts and support from many territorial groups of the 'ndrangheta operating in the city territory, linked to the De Stefano. These considerations, I believe, must be rooted in Parliament's jurisprudence on the removal of inviolability, as this is a difficult balance between the constitutional principle of the integrity of the plenum of the parliamentary body - which represents the overall aim of the constitutional guarantee provided for in the second paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution - and the requirements of justice proper to the rule of law. With regard to the situation of the co-defendants, it is useful to point out to the Assembly that all the co-indicators with Senator Caridi for the same case of crime are recipients of protective measures in prison, except Dr. Chirico, restricted to house arrests but only in view of the advanced age. In conclusion and in summary, the extraordinary gravity of the crime, the lack of a clear non-susistence of precautionary requirements, the consistency of circumstantial reconstructions and evidence (not only interceptions, but also converging declarations of the six repentant ones), the evident non implausibility of the reasons put forward by the requesting judiciary and the same situation of the co-indicators have led the majority of the Junta to propose to the Assembly the acceptance of the request for authorization to execute the precautionary measure in prison requested in respect of Senator Caridi, pouring itself in a typical situation where the "great rule" of the rule of law and the consequent judicial regime to which are normally submitted, in our constitutional system, all legal goods and all rights - to use the same words of the Constitutional Court precisely with regard to immunity - cannot but prevail over the constitutional (but not by chance removable) requirements for the protection of the plenum assembly. For the above arguments, the Giunta has decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly of the Senate the granting of authorization to execute the order of custody in prison against Senator Antonio Stefano Caridi, pursuant to article 68, second paragraph, of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u48	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order and a question of suspensiveness in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. We are faced with a request for arrest for serious reasons; this is a rare request, for obvious reasons. This is undoubtedly the quickest discussion of a request of this kind that has been there so far, which creates some problems for preparation: the need for the presence of Senator Caridi and also the need for individual senators to prepare for this vow which, more than any other (but should all be), is a vow of science and conscience. Consciousness should always follow, while science has not infused it and, therefore, we should be able to study the papers. I am told that courts called upon to make an urgent decision on an extremely similar and contiguous matter (I am thinking of the review court) usually take fifteen days to decide. We started dealing with Senator Caridi's case on Tuesday, with a little taste last week. Therefore, if we are finished today, we will complete the whole procedure within less than a week (which we certainly do not hesitate to do, because it is good to do better than an ordinary court). But one thing must be said. I do not want to go into the subject of the much debate whether we are a court of law or whether we are a court of law or whether we have a court of law or whether we have a court of law. However, we are all called upon to take a decision, which, from the point of view of effect, is certainly equivalent to that of a review court called upon to make a request for arrest. Well, that's not all we did. As all my fellow Members are well aware, the meetings of the Council - yesterday's, but also the previous ones - took place while the work of this House was under way. Several Members have spoken both in this House and in the Junta because - moreover - there have sometimes been similar arguments debated (I am thinking, for example, of the report on the criminal trial). So the time spent so far is not six or seven days, but a few hours, because in the meantime extremely important measures, such as the one on publishing, have been examined. On this draft law, which we have already begun to examine, all the colleagues who follow the proceedings seriously have prepared themselves, believing that the examination of the documents of the Junta would take place later. Hence my request - and this is a question for a preliminary ruling - not to deal with this matter today and to postpone it until a new Conference of the Leaders considers that it should be included in the timetable. I would also like to explain a suspensive question, asking for the examination of the document to resume when, in a few days' time (seems to be a week), the review court, which is taking more time than we, while doing that and that is all, especially in these days. I therefore propose that we reconvene once the review tribunal has met, which could very easily even cancel, from our point of view, the request for arrest and therefore risk deliberating something of which a court of the Republic could from the beginning recognize the unfoundedness, regardless of the parliamentary status of Senator Caridi. I quote another important element, which we must consider. Just yesterday, at the beginning of the last session of the Junta, which took place to discuss the document under consideration, we arrived with Senator Caridi, who had received it thanks to the research of his lawyer, documentation relating to one of the fundamental points on which the accusation is based and, consequently, all the apparatus that led to the request of the arrest of Senator Caridi. Such documentation refers to a meeting - which is claimed to be one of many - of Senator Caridi with such head of the 'ndrangheta - such Caponera, if I am not mistaken - reported by one of the repentant - or reporters, depends on what we want to call them - on which, moreover, the accusation is based exclusively, because there is no other evidence. Well, this registrant cited in particular a meeting between Senator Caridi and this head of the 'ndrangheta, which would take place in 2006 or 2007. It is already a fairly large time space, but it is also normal, since we are years away. Well, we have the precise and very clear documentation, coming from the judicial offices, which tells us that this Caponera has been in prison from at least 2005 to 2009. Therefore, this meeting of Caridi with this head of the 'ndrangheta, which the registrant has placed in the span of seven hundred thirty days, and which constitutes one of the very few concrete elements, among other things based on the statements of a criminal, both reporting, is clearly false. I am well aware that I cannot ask to wait until the examination of these facts has been completed, which could actually go on indefinitely. At least I think it would be a reasonable minimum to wait for the court to rule on freedom. I fully agree with you, Mr President, that an arrest requested for these reasons by a court - and if a court requests arrest is not for negligible reasons - must be decided in good time. To do so promptly, however, means to decide at the right time and not as soon as possible, at the cost of doing things wrong. I note that one of the other cornerstones of the prosecution - it is to be said: perhaps we should call them "capimolli" - is a telephone interception, which was therefore carried out with full conscience by the judicial authority of 20 April 2002. I repeat: it is an interception of 2002: for fourteen years, at least (but, from other elements present in the papers, it seems that the investigations were already started for another two years, if not more), according to the papers sent to us by the court, there would have been a very strong evidence of the membership of the criminal organization by Senator Caridi. Fourteen years! And for these fourteen years no one has intervened. In fourteen years, they have found none of the crimes of which in the papers also mention is made about Senator Caridi. But on this point I hope that we will not have to come back later, because I hope that this proposal will be accepted. But after fourteen, we can wait another seven days. The judiciary, which does this by profession, has waited fourteen years, knowing since 2002 that (according to that body) the person of Antonio Stefano Caridi is dangerous, in fact waited fourteen years! We then wait seven days, and not to wait for something strange, but for a court of the Republic to express itself, essentially, on the same issue on which we would be called to express ourselves at this moment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u51	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to explain a suspensive question and a question for a preliminary ruling. I would not like to go into the matter, which I hope we will talk about, but not today, but to talk about the times and ways in which the Senate has dealt with this issue. Only on 15 July did we know that Mr Caridi, who has arrived and is here (and who according to the Constitution is not guilty until a judgment passed in court), would have been, as the newspapers still report today, one of the five members of the mafiosa, masonic and criminal cosca that would have conditioned in the last twenty years the entire political, administrative and electoral life of Calabria, having conditioned the municipal, provincial, regional, national and European elections. So, a very serious accusation. These would be the majestic who ruled Calabria. As the rapporteur said this morning, there is still this accusation in the newspapers, but it has actually fallen. You have heard the rapporteur Stefano say that Senator Caridi is not one of the leaders, but he would be a mere executor. And the rapporteur, Mr Stefano, also said that it is not implausible that it is; then we will see, on the substance, how, when and where he would have done something executive. Instead we come to the times and to the reason of the demand for suspensive. On July 15, 2,050 pages of request arrived to us, which, as members of the Council, we rushed to try to read thoroughly. On 27 July, however, another 1,800 additional pages came from the prosecutor, who partly modified, as the rapporteur said, the accusation largely. Caridi was no longer the head of the dome, but he became, from what we understand, simply an executor. In the meantime, it was given to Mr Caridi, as the date of expiry of the terms of defence, on 1 August. Of course his lawyers worked on these 5,000 pages and on August 1 he filed his defensive documentation that, as members of the Junta, we should have read carefully. In part, of course, we did, because on 2 August we also listened to Senator Caridi, who was auditioned by the Junta and illustrated the documentation. It is the result (it is the version of Senator Caridi) that all the statements made by the parties about the relevance of a support of the 'ndrangheta in his electoral events (where, for regionals, twice out of three was, with a very bad technical term, "switched," i.e. he was not elected) are totally false. He delivered the records, seat by seat, in which the families of the 'ndrangheta would help him, demonstrating, by record, that in those seats his competitors obtained the highest of the votes and he, of votes, did not obtain them. On the contrary, there are intercepts of mobsters who exult because one of their contestants was elected to whom they sent the votes. What did we then ask, in vain, on August 3, after a few hours that Senator Caridi had brought us his defensive documentation? Whether he did a test to find out if Senator Caridi had said the truth or the forgery. I am referring to the documentation that Senator Caridi has produced to show that all the claims of the repentant are absolutely false. The famous environmental interception of 2002, in which the undersecretary Valentino speaks for a long time with which and with another member of parliament of elections and lists, is in the act, if anyone wanted to read it: they are pages in which we speak only of Calabria, of investments, of the possibility of development of Calabria, of those who make the mayor etc. Then, in the end, Senator Valentino says something like this: dear Caridi, you come from a family in which your father and your uncle are a recordman of preferences; if you are elected you pay us the bill. This would be interpreted as a bill of exchange paid to organized crime. Senator Caridi, then, said the truth or said the forgery. However, I wonder if we in twelve hours, with 5,000 pages to read, with his defensive report filed yesterday morning, can send a colleague to prison with all the questions that have remained open, and not on the fact that he is part of the dome of the mafia (which was excluded), but that he has done somewhere an intervention in favour of the 'ndrangheta, although in all the pages there is not an episode that is mentioned in this sense. He's a senator, we've been here in the Senate for three years, and we've all seen the hectic activity that Senator Caridi has put in place in favor of the 'ndrangheta', haven't we? You don't understand where, how and when that happened. Mr President, if the so-called Freedom Tribunal takes a decision on 13 August, is it we who are to put our fellow Member in prison today? This is based on the following statement: it is not implausible. It is in the act: it is not implausible. It cannot be excluded that there is some relationship, but this applies to all colleagues elected in the regions where the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the camorra are present. Who can exclude that those who are elected in those regions with a preference vote do not have some connection? Can a person be sent to jail on the grounds that a particular circumstance cannot be ruled out? I think that a person goes to prison if there are solid, true, serious and proven elements for protective custody, which is not the sentence of conviction passed into court: it is an event that marks the life of a person, his family and his goodness. I think it would be desirable wisdom on the part of the Senate, in front of a storyline. On this, in fact, books will be written when it is discovered that in forty-eight hours the Senate voted without even giving time to fully read the papers. I did not say it, but authoritative magistrates that we have in Junta, who for forty years have been magistrates have denounced how incomprehensible it is the fact that one can decide the life of a person not only without having had the time to read the thousands of papers, but without even being able to evaluate his defense, whether the cases are true or not (and this is not us, but the offices), without having had the time to verify. We have been given the tables: is it true or not it true that in all the seats indicated by the repentant he did not take votes? If it is true, the accusation of having conditioned the elections (not European, regional, provincial and municipal ones where he was not elected) is laughable and grotesque and, if it is true that in the areas where the mob families were indicated the votes did not take them, why should we send him to prison? Let's leave it to the review court, which in these fifteen to twenty days has had the opportunity to look at and evaluate the cards, to decide and then, on the basis of that decision, even the Senate, with the ideas a little 'clearer, will be able to decide the life of a colleague. In my culture it says not to do to others what you do not want to do to you and I ask all my colleagues to put themselves in the shoes of my colleague who should go to jail without this Senate having determined the reasons for it. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u54	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to ask you to suspend work for a few hours. My request is different from that of Senator Malan and the other senators who have spoken because I think it may be necessary to be slightly more pragmatic, but we need at least a few hours. Why do I ask for a few hours? Everyone knows - and I am a little proud of it - that I have been in Parliament for a few years; I have never had to vote on an application for authorisation on an execution of custody without having read at least something, neither in the years immediately preceding, nor when I arrived in Parliament in 1994. I am sure I share the importance of this with so many in this House, with President Casini, with President Marino, with President Fedeli, who - I understand - are obliged to do something different right now. They couldn't read it and in these cases what do you do? You rely on your partner... (You too, President Marcucci, who obliges me, to speak with President Casini, to move away). This report is a summary of another report, the one that President Stefano did in Junta, which was 107 pages long. I do not know whether President Stefano, when he invites (himself) to read the report, refers to this or to the 107-page report. But it is the same rapporteur who says that it is important for this House to know what we are talking about. It is important, because we are talking about pre-trial detention for a Mafia crime, and that is why we are debating this morning. We have to decide whether to authorize custody for a colleague; we have to decide whether to vote in defence of Parliament's prerogatives, and therefore in defence of the plenum, or whether to vote by balancing the duty of our mandate with the interest of the country, thus to render justice. We must decide whether the justice is the defence of the plenum or whether the justice is giving rise to the application for authorization to execute the order of custody. Colleagues, please listen to me. The document to which Senator Stefano refers is very important, because the judge's request for preliminary investigations (it is not the public prosecutor's request, but the gip's request) has reformed the judge's request. We're not talking about mob association, we're talking about outside competition, we're talking about that swampy crime, the quicksand, smoky - and that's why it's better to talk about fumus persecutionis - according to the same gip. You do not know this and I invite you to meditate on it. Last night, Televideo's page 125 (to say, the most immediate information that any one of us uses, since we care to be informed) said that Senator Caridi is accused of Mafia association: he is not accused of Mafia association, but of external competition. [[Comments of Senator Giarrusso]] And you can only know that if you read the papers. I invite you to read them and ask for a suspensive to do so. The gip, in reforming the judge's decision, knowing that the statements of the collaborators were not so important that it could support his validation of protective custody, had to resort to two other requirements, that is, an activity, presumed, by Senator Caridi to clean up his car and the presence in the house of a known 'ndranghetista. Now, the second two in Junta have actually fallen. The second two fell because there is no talk of reclamation in the acts and because from the video the presence in the house turns out to have been for a minute and twenty seconds, that is in the impossibility to realize a meeting, but only in the possibility that Senator Caridi entered the house and came out after having seen that in that house there was the famous 'ndranghetista. The other has remained, that is, the body of the statements of the collaborators, who all of you who deal with justice know that they must be united and realized on the core, therefore on the association. Instead, in addition to being discordant, we only yesterday knew how to be false. I repeat: to be false. So the invitation and the request I have is to give you the chance to read all this. Senator Augello made a request yesterday. And the reason why we did not decide yesterday in the morning was not to do obstructionism: we did not decide because the duty in Junta is to convince ourselves. The Junta is a college, it is a continuous debate, it is the search for a dialectic, it is the attempt, on our part, to find what is really the truth. Difficult research, but absolute presumption on our part of the duty that calls us to be present in that Junta. At a time when this was granted to us by the rapporteur and the majority, who have allowed us to meet, it is noted. Then, legally, a learned speech by Senator Casson and another even more learned than Senator Cucca affirmed their conviction, namely that that is the merit. For me it is not the merit; for us who voted against it was not the merit, but it was the established smokeiness of the alleged crime, it was the fumus persecutionis, not arson but guilty. How can a magistrate refer to a false statement by his collaborators? That is what you must read before you decide, and that is what I am asking the House: a few hours' delay, so that our fellow senators can see how false, smoky and persecutory the request is. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u57	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, unlike the Members of the European Parliament - as I said just now - no Senator in my Group has yet been able to read the report which Mr Stefano, the rapporteur, has briefly read to us earlier, referring to the report which Mr Mario Ferrara has quoted as 107 pages. In fact, I sent Senator Falanga to pick them up and get them printed, these 107 pages, so I could read them, since we haven't read them yet. Moreover, as can be seen from this official act which will remain in the memory and history of this Parliamentary Assembly, it says that it was communicated to the Presidency on 3 August 2016. I would point out that it was communicated at midnight, that it was printed at night and that it was delivered this morning for the first time to my fellow senators at 9.45 a.m. We got it at 9.45. It is just over an hour that we have this report and we are waiting, as a Group, for the 107 pages that Senator Falanga went to ask the offices of the Junta, because the rapporteur Stefano clearly referred to that report, which no one here knows, apart from the members of the Junta, who obviously had the opportunity to read it from July 15, 2016, because the judge's office for preliminary investigations of the court of Reggio Calabria sent it on July 15, 2016 to the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunities. We have now read only these 12 pages and of course we have focused on the conclusions read also by Senator Stefano who say clearly what the diagnosis is, but we want to give another therapy, perhaps for interest, but that is not good for the patient, indeed kills him, but maybe it is good for the pharmaceutical companies that produce it. On the document it is written that Mr Caridi has brought to the Junta meeting yesterday afternoon further documents, beyond the prescribed deadlines, which the collegial body has considered, however, for the purposes of its own decisions. The documentation produced was intended to show that, as my colleague Mr Malan has already said, this Caponera Paolo - so-called Paolo for the body - was confined to prison in the period 2006-2007 when a meeting would take place at the Royal Garden restaurant between the aforementioned Caponera, Andrea Giunco and the same Senator Caridi. This is evidence of the nine that the therapy we're giving is wrong, it's not good for the patient, it's not good for justice. This is a clear demonstration of fumus. Those who give this therapy and those who share it certainly do not do the good of justice, rather personify the anti-justice because a thousand clues do not make a test, but a test like this erases a thousand clues. It goes on to say that the reading of these acts is indeed confirmed. So the Junta realizes that there is just fumus, that is, it lacks any presupposition for an action of this kind that anyway is dated 2006-2007 and that therefore goes back ten years. I really believe, Mr President, that a moment of reflection is more than necessary. The same judges, when they go to the boardroom, if they do so seriously, also reflect for hours if not for days before issuing a sentence because they have to look at all the papers, they have to debate and they have to debate. We would also like to do so, and you must allow us to do so by giving us the possibility of a suspension. Senator Malan said the review court would speak in a week's time. We are ready to return the day immediately following the decision of the review court, even if it is Ferragosto. In fact, it doesn't scare us. When we give therapy, when we play with personal freedom, we must remember that our Constitution - I repeat, our Constitution - limits imprisonment to three very specific cases, none of which can be traced back to that of our examination. Our constituent Fathers who assist from the afterlife to this session are turning in the tomb, because personal guarantees come first of all. So we believe, Mr President, that you should have a second thought. On the other hand, we believe that saying that the intelligent person can admit mistakes and that, when mistakes are made, we must not continue to pursue them. We believe that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities made a mistake in making a hasty decision, even during the sitting of the House in which we were discussing it. Senator Zanda himself said that we worked well: we worked well for the country, but we did not work well with the Junta. In my land of Lunigiana it is said that the hasty kitten makes blind kittens. We wouldn't want to get out of here doing things we might regret later. That's why we think the cards are clear; paper sings. The documentation was delivered to my fellow senators on August 3. Senator Falanga hasn't brought me the 107 pages he went to print and to which President Stefano sent us back. Let us at least read them. In my group there are also intelligent and capable people, so in a couple of hours - in two or three hours - we can also read everything, but it must allow us to read the papers and to know the history and the objective judicial examination of this case. As my colleague Mr Ferrara said, it is a fumus, because it is an external association and, for the external association, we must wait for the parliamentary process to end. When, after the three degrees of judgment, we arrive at a determination, we obviously respect it, but we cannot rush the time and we cannot ask this House, which in the post-war period was a Chamber of great democracy, to do an act that has nothing to do with democracy and, above all, with guaranteeing and reformism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u58	In order to put some order in the debate, since questions have already been raised for preliminary and suspensive reasons, I wanted to understand whether we are intervening in relation to the debate on those already before us or whether there are any new ones. In the first case, as you know, one Senator per Group may speak in the debate. I just wanted to point this out. [[Senator Caliendo points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Caliendo, do you wish to speak in the debate? Senator Malan has already presented a preliminary and a suspensive question for the Forza Italia Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u59	Mr President, I am not going to present new issues, but I am just making a statement.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u60	It was just to be clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u61	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. President, I've been living badly these days. I'm sure you've read at least the protective custody order and the interceptions that accompany you. After President Stefano read in Junta the judicial report that, like the one presented today, gave no room for reflection on some aspects, I lost five hours of sleep. You know better than I do that we have been engaged every day, even until midnight or 1:00 p.m. in the Justice Commission, but after five and a half hours, after reading the order and the interceptions, with respect to the awareness and certainty that I had to vote in favour of the Stefano report, after listening to it, I have had a number of doubts. You are well aware, Mr President, that a new order of 1,800 pages was subsequently issued, and that none of us in the Parliamentary Assembly could read because there was no time. With respect to the decision that is being made, I listen to everyone, but I realize and register that no one knows the acts, that no one has read anything and that neither do we of the Junta know what is inside. Properly President Stefano with the Offices has summarized - he has done it - on four pages the 1,800 pages of the new procedure by which the gip has considered not to give a new precautionary measure. If the doubts have come to me after reading those acts, how do I know if the other acts will not strengthen me in the will to vote in favour or against with even more conviction? Mr President, I did not appreciate this morning when you did not take up President Paolo Romani's request to convene a meeting of the Conference of Leaders. Mr President, I am aware of your attention and the way in which you motivated the judgments, read and evaluate the protective measures (we will talk about this when we come to the substance), but it was necessary to enable the House to vote on the cognite case. I wonder if there was a chance to have another session next week, so that we could have a chance to read. Do we all have to run? I booked the plane for tonight at 8:15. I didn't think I'd get away and not take part in the vote. I would also vote at 4 p.m. So, there was no need for an anticipation. In Giunta yesterday I said something that I repeat here: if by chance President Paolo Romani had gathered the Group to know how to vote, I would have left the Forza Italia Group. That goes for the Junta. I saw something incredible yesterday: President Stefano invited the Leaders to give an indication. This is crazy. I claimed to vote for me, to make my explanation of vote. You are the ones who respect the judgments of the judges, but do not take into account what the Constitutional Court and the Court of Cassation have said. For the verification of powers we are a full and pure judicial body. And if, instead, we are not a court of law here, at least we must feel the duty to reason with our own conscience and head, provided that we are in a position to do so. With respect to Senator Malan's request for suspension, President Paolo Romani asked for a meeting of the Conference of Leaders, probably in order to have the opportunity to reason so that at least the members of the election committee know everything that needs to be assessed. With regard to the Rules of Procedure, you said that you would consider Senator Falanga's proposal to consider the composition of the Junta. Mr President, we must also consider another aspect: it is not possible for this House to be unaware when we examine these acts. On some other occasion, when we were questioned, the judges were subsequently denied but, fortunately, the Senate had seen before the judges. The Senate had voted in accordance with what was said by the Court of Cassation, subsequently annulling the court's order and then the review court's. But at least there was the awareness of having assessed and decided according to the acts. The Rules of Procedure which prevent you from being members of the Council from reading the acts, from knowing what you are voting on, are absurd. With regard to this report, which is very well written (in a judicialistic perspective), we must reason that there is no room for Parliament not to be on the same level as the judiciary and that it is not subject to a succession without an opportunity to assess. When we discuss the subject, we must discuss the limits. I am about to set union limits on the part of this House. You, when you were still in Palermo, will remember when Article 68 of the Constitution was amended. Many of us (including some friends of ours, yours and mine who are no longer there) have had a battle: we have criticized Parliament for amending Article 68, because it altered a constitutional system. As long as I live, I will continue to fight for a balance between powers. There cannot be, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, an awe, because in all the countries of the world the balance must be evaluated; and just because in our system some legislators, some members of Parliament have misused Article 68, we cannot say that it must be eliminated. We have to do and behave properly. For this reason, Mr President, I shall vote in favour of the suspension, not because I need to postpone the judgment on Caridi, but because I need to read; and like me, the others. But I didn't make it a formal matter. Then I tell you that probably the wisdom of the meeting of the Leaders, the wisdom that President Zanda called for, could probably allow for a just solution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u64	Mr Albertini (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, you, at the beginning of this House's work this morning, surprising everyone and certainly those who are talking to you at the moment, have predicted that the order of business will be reversed. As a result of her decision, some Members have called for her choice to be deepened with the convening of the Conference of Parents, which she has denied because it is her discretionary and monocratic power to reverse the agenda already planned and incardinated, and that is what this is all about. But you, as President of this House, the second office of the State, even though you already have a very important task in your previous life as magistrate of the Republic, and you cannot delegate to others other than your own conscience, which is to protect the branch of Parliament that you chair, the Senate of the Republic, by safeguarding the prerogatives of the individual senators and of the whole Assembly. You are aware at the moment, if you were not informed before, that almost all the Members of this Parliament who are presiding are not in a position to take a decision concerning the personal freedom of a person who is a member of this Parliament, because there is no material possibility of accessing the acts relating to this subject and there is no possibility, in a reasonable time, of reading them, of documenting themselves, of becoming aware of what is to be decided with reasonable awareness. The rapporteur has just said that he leaves his 107-page report to the record, of which he has presented a summary here. It is known that our colleague, who is subject to this provision of the judicial authority and has asked for the protection of his healings, has filed an application to examine the other 1,800 pages that the judicial authority has still carried out for an evaluation. Mr President, we are not in a position to decide. Therefore, I ask you - and I beg you - as a member of this Parliament and a citizen of the Italian Republic, to protect our role and our right conscience - and to allow us all to be able to assess with consistency, precision and completeness whether the act we are discussing, i.e. deprive a person of freedom, is sufficiently motivated or not. Finally, I would like to conclude by quoting, for those who forgot, Article 68 of the Constitution, which we are talking about: Members of Parliament shall not be required to respond to the opinions expressed and the votes given in the performance of their duties. Without the permission of the Chamber to which he belongs, no member of the Parliament may be subject to a personal search or a home search, nor may he be arrested or otherwise deprived of personal liberty, or held in detention, except in execution of an irrevocable sentence, or if he is caught in the act of committing a crime for which compulsory arrest is provided for in a flagrant (...). Article 68 of the Constitution is not nonsense and we cannot decide without knowing the arguments we are talking about, because only the hands of colleagues who express themselves with an inch up or up. President Grasso, I am referring to your conscience, even before the magistrate and today the President of this House, in order to guarantee the rights of the senators to know the matters on which they must decide in relation to the highest law of our order. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and FI-PdL XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u67	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know, I cannot, I do not want and it is not my job to decide here whether Mr Caridi is innocent or guilty. I'm not a jurist, and I haven't been a magistrate or a lawyer. I deal with justice because in 2001 my other colleagues in my group decided to take care of all the other Commissions and I only had to join the Justice Commission. However, in my long life, one day I found a nice headline with the following words: "Buemi accused of extortion." These were the pages of the Turin edition of the newspaper "La Repubblica" in 1994, 1995 or 1996 (I don't remember). Who is interested, can go look in the newspaper archive. A friend of mine called and asked me what I had done. I said I didn't know anything. He told me that my name was quoted in the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" on charges of extortion. I run to the newsstands, buy the newspaper and individual the name of the public prosecutor agent. I'm gonna call the D.A., and I'm gonna drop by the prosecutor, who kindly answers me and says, Mr. Buemi, don't worry, it's an investigation. My name, however, had in the meantime appeared on the pages of the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" on the charge of extortion. I'm an entrepreneur and the charge of extortion for an entrepreneur is not a small thing. Certainly it is not the charge of belonging to the dome of the 'ndrangheta of Reggio Calabria, but for someone like me it was a heavy charge, Mr President. What was that about? I remember telling the prosecutor that it would be enough to go to the headquarters of my company, take the decision of the board of directors and read it to verify that the one who accused me of extortion had voted with me that resolution. - Oh, yeah? Bring it to me. That's how the D.A. responded. Two hours after that resolution was on the table of the replaced prosecutor of the Republic of Turin. How many years has it been? SOLLO (PD). Twenty-one! BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). It's been 21 years and I haven't heard anything. Guess that replacement took some conclusions. So, I was put in the sedan because an agent, an operator of justice - a magistrate or a member of the judicial police authority - had not thought that maybe he should do some further research before talking to the journalists. In fact, I would add that I have never received any communication, either judicial or guarantee. Perhaps I should call it a "blame" communication, because I think it is a "blame" communication rather than a guarantee for public opinion. Although I am not an end-of-jurist, Mr President, although I am not a magistrate, a professor of legal science or a lawyer, life has taught me that under God there is no one better than me: we are all equal, all weak and all with our human miseries, even if we are prosecutors of the Republic, even if we are the President of the Senate. Allow me, Mr President, even if we are the President of the Senate. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] What remains, then, Mr President? Let me make it brief: it remains my conscience. When I saw at the first meeting of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities that there was a written sentence of the Junta and a definite timetable, I said: here cat hatches us! [[Applause from Senators Formigoni, Fucksia and Rizzotti.]] So, although I did not have the competence of my colleague Caliendo, I went to read me some acts and the interceptions that were available. I will do so later, Mr President, but I have convinced myself that what we were doing - and I refer back to the previous assessment of the culprit and the innocent - was a compression of Mr Caridi's right to defend himself. This, Mr President, for a country that wants to be included among those who have a great legal civilization, is unacceptable. The right to defence in the seats of the Parliament is a constitutionally guaranteed right and must be guaranteed first of all to the perpetrators. I repeat: first of all to the guilty! That is the only way to get to a fair trial and I want a trial for Mr Caridi. If the judiciary has decided to open an inquiry, it is right that the seat where it is defined whether it is innocent or guilty should be that which is the seat of our Constitution, that is, the court, the court of appeal, the eventual Cassation and not this Assembly. So we do not decide, ladies and gentlemen, on the innocence and guilt of Mr Caridi, but first of all we decide whether we have guaranteed him, at least at this first stage of today's debate, the right to defence. Mr President, I have abandoned twice the meetings of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, because the right to defence was not guaranteed. I didn't get on track today: in the first meeting of the Junta I said that compressing the times in this way is a mistake. Some wanted to decide already on Monday, others wanted to decide on Tuesday. It is as if in a trial - and we do some preliminary trial - we have already decided everything. Colleagues, if we had already decided all of the Junta, in fact, if they had decided the whole President of the Junta and someone else, then we could be defined, with a strong and even vulgar term, with "pendent" attributes. You know? But we're not pendant! I'm not pendant! I decide with my conscience. For me, neither my party secretary, nor my group leader, nor the Leader of other political forces of majority or minority, nor the President of the Senate, nor the prosecutor of the Republic of Reggio Calabria (person I esteem) nor the gip of Reggio Calabria: here I decide. Therefore, Mr President, I renew my call to guarantee the rights to defence and to the knowledge of all of us, who are linked to the right to defend Mr Caridi, so that we can read the acts and you can read the acts. I have already convinced myself of the tragedy and injustice in progress, which prescind from the innocence or guilt of my colleague Caridi. [[Live applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), AL-A (MpA), GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u70	AUGELLO (CoR). Mr President, at yesterday's meeting of the Council, I voted to abstain because I had raised a problem. I'll explain. We have received papers which, at the time when he drew up his defensive memory, Mr Caridi - as he said - did not have in his readiness. And being important cards for the evaluation of fumus for reasons which you, Mr President, will understand better than any other in this House, when I have explained them (if nothing else for your professional experience), I had the logical expectation that these enrichments of our documentation would be traced to us in Mr Stefano's report and especially in the work of the Junta. Mr Malan has already mentioned this problem, but I would like to detail it. Frankly, the way in which this matter has been recovered by the rapporteur here in this House - I must acknowledge the rapporteur who, however, added ten lines on this integration in the report - does not seem to find objective comfort in the papers. And I would ask you, Mr President, to follow me very closely, because we have problems with this integration. What Mr Malan has already mentioned happens. At the center of the story are some criminal families of the 'ndrangheta reggina and, in particular, some characters who would interact, according to the accused plant, with my colleague Caridi in a series of criminal activities. One of the main exponents of these clans is such a Caponera, called Paolone, that - as my colleague Malan recalled - at some point, according to the accusatory facility, in a precise meeting, in a restaurant called Royal Garden, he would meet Senator Caridi and others. And that is an important meeting for the purpose of the accusatory plant, because in its course a series of agreements and agreements matures. Therefore, it is an absolutely decisive meeting from the point of view of the accusatory plant and the following option in favor of the request for arrest that is forwarded to us. Now, the objection that Caridi raised is that actually, hand in hand, Mr. Caponera was in prison when that meeting took place. And, therefore, you will agree with me that, although there is a certain liberality in the treatment of the prison regime in favour of rehabilitation, I do not believe that in Italian prisons the prisoners get out to go to dinner and make agreements with politicians and then return them to prison. It is therefore clear to this House that, if the question put by Mr Caridi had a basis, we should take this into account, ladies and gentlemen, for the purpose of assessing fumus. It is clear, in fact, that in a prosecutor such as Reggio Calabria, who is not exactly the size of New York, it is difficult to believe that the magistrate - and you have been the magistrate - who is investigating does not realize if a leader 'ndrangheta, who is at the center of the investigation and is a key man in the definition of the relationships of the dome we are talking about, is in detention for years. It is not a person in custody for two months and then escaped for a moment. That gentleman has been detained for years and continuously. The rapporteur says, however, that, in fact, from the statements of the witness, it is not very clear when the event is placed. But that is not true: on page 1.497 of the protective custody order, Mr. Aiello confines exactly between 2006 and 2007 - so, it is indecisive, but within that time frame - the event we are talking about. In 2006-2007 Caponera was in prison. At this point, I would like to make a second point, which relates not to the work of the rapporteur, but to the debate of the Junta. Some Members have pointed out to us that, in an intercept that must be crossed with a statement made by Mr Aiello in an interrogation, it is said that at that dinner there were the Caponera and not the Caponera. That, Mr President, would solve the problem: it is enough to count those who are the Caponera and, if one was in prison, it could be another element of the family. Unfortunately, however, the Caponera are two in all, and therefore the expression "I Caponera" indicates that there was also that in prison. Above all, however - I address the colleagues of the Junta who asked us the question - yesterday looking at the papers I did a deepening and in the interview of 30 October 2014 the pm poses our same problem asking which Caponera was being talked about and it is explained that at the Royal Garden there was just "Paolone" Caponera, what was in prison. Why, Mr President, is this important in relation to our work and why have I asked the rapporteur to go further? In the decision to be taken by this House today, we must not determine whether the Member is guilty or innocent, nor must we in any way question the acts and beliefs to which the judges have come by means of the acts: there is an inquiry and we shall see how it will end up in court; then, if necessary, he will assert his innocence with the means available to him by law. We, however, need to establish something else, namely whether the Senate, in carrying out the role assigned to it by the Constitution, has been able or not to make a decision without being conditioned, without being put in front of a surreal representation of things. I believe, Mr President - and I hope that you - not as President - but as a person with a very important professional history in the matter we are talking about, namely the fight against the Mafia - understand this - that in sending the cards to the Senate to omit such an observation is a sign of enormous neglect or bad faith. There are no great difficulties. On the other hand, we must not forget that much of these and also of the other acts is dated at a time when that prosecutor had a solid and safe guide. We are all aware of the fact, especially we elected in Rome, that a prosecutor from Pignatone certainly does not shine for sloppiness or omissions. We all know the value of that magistrate. We all also know that he does not look at anyone's face, and here in Rome he has demonstrated it and brought a real judicial earthquake, having papers that allowed him and I repeat, colleagues: having papers that allowed him to do so. What did I expect, honestly? These are the cards, and anyone can read them. The elements I have provided to this House are available in the offices of the Junta; of course they cannot leave that office, but they can be verified. I would have expected a deepening, a debate worthy of such a vulnus within the Junta. Then I can be wrong or right. You can say anything, for Christ's sake. It can even be said that in Reggio Calabria one of the principal leaders of 'ndrangheta is in prison and the judge who investigates to explain to us who are the leaders of all 'ndrangheta in Reggio Calabria does not know. Maybe, and who am I to question it? Maybe. But we had to talk about it, Mr President, and get to the bottom of it. In fact, as can be seen from the space devoted by the rapporteur to this issue, there has been no deepening because there has been no time. Even yesterday, Mr President, a psychodrama broke out on the press agencies and in the Junta because I was allowed to say that, if our colleague urges us to look at the papers because an element of a certain kind calls into question a testimony of regret, but above all the manner in which the proxy sent us the papers, we needed two and a half hours of postponement. It happened - as they say in Brazil - the "maraca" happened, anything happened. We have been accused, in various ways, of seeking a delay, of making apple-tree, obstructionism: asking for two and a half hours to make copies and read... [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, have a moment of patience, because I am not talking exactly about time-limits. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Crosio]] Faced with such a situation, two and a half hours were considered, in this House's communication, a de facto activity collateral to a project which tended not to bring to justice those responsible for Mafia crimes. This has happened and is not good, Mr President, because the circumstances I am referring to are objective and objective and can be interpreted (as I have already said, everything is possible, even the paradox I imagined); but I repeat that they are objective and objective. That is why we needed an in-depth discussion of the Junta and a debate on the issue. The rapporteur would certainly have come to this House better equipped and we would have had a different kind of debate. Now, all these issues will be of little use, the review court will discuss them - for goodness' sake - but this is not a way of dealing with such important and important deadlines and decisions that are so relevant to the fate of a Member of Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u72	I remind you that Senators Caliendo and Malan have already spoken for Forza Italia. Therefore, in order to respect the rule that applies to all the other groups, one Senator per Group can intervene in the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u73	Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would actually like to ask a question for a preliminary ruling, but I do so on my own behalf, as Senator Malan did, and not on behalf of the Group. Thank you very much. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I thought you were talking about the debate. Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). No, I want to ask a new question. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Mr President. I do not think it is a good page that is being consumed today because of its legitimate initiative to arrange for the order to be reversed. In fact, Mr President, I would also like to denounce the fact that democracy has been trampled down on this issue for a few days now. It has already happened, in fact, in the work of the Junta - and, therefore, not on the grounds of merit or fault or responsibility - where it has been prevented, because of the extremely short time available to the Commissioners to have full weight of the voluminous acts received from the Calabrian judicial offices. It must be done quickly, even at the cost of compromising - at the initiative of the President of the Junta, and I regret to say this, little serene in this situation, as has not been the case in others - and to compress the right to defence not only of our colleague, Senator Caridi, but also of the Commissioners, Mr President. The latter have had very little time to read the documents and the accusations made which, in any case (from a summary examination), have already appeared deficit and irreconcilable, contradictory and superficial, in relation to the position of Senator Caridi, as already explained by the colleagues who preceded me, so I do not want to go into the matter, even if there would be no lack of arguments. We have had at our disposal a very poor, uncertain and politically prejudiced circumstantial picture, which immediately comes to light after a brief first reading. Mr President, of the 2,000 pages of theorems and conjectures - I also address the Magistrate Pietro Grasso - and of the 1,800 pages and more arrived forty-eight hours ago, honestly I, member of the Junta, did not read a single staff. This is the vulnus of democracy, from my point of view. It is 2,000 pages on which Members will be called upon to decide today, who will take a decision with a purely emotional vote, without any knowledge of the facts and acts received from the Junta. I should like to finish by explaining the question referred for a preliminary ruling. I call for this matter to be brought back to the Junta, Mr President, pending the outcome of the decision of the Freedom Court in a week's time. Mr President, we are talking about acts that date back more than ten years. The statements of the legal staff are dated in time, date back to 2004 or 2005 and there are interceptions in 2002. And, more than ten years later, those statements, which had not been considered valid by other magistrates, are summarized and considered valid today to incarcerate one of our colleagues. Mr President, it is a force that has no limits, not to say a shame, to use a euphemism. So the question I am asking is this: I would ask you to return to the Junta in order to deepen the papers and then report the conclusions in this House, because the Rules of Procedure do not allow the other senators to know the acts. Mr President, thank you very much for the few minutes you have given me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u74	Technically, if your request is subject to review by the Junta, it is more a suspensive than a preliminary ruling. In any case, it changes little compared to the proposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u77	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, when I was told that President Stefano had drawn up a 107-page report, I asked - as Senator Barani anticipated - the Offices to copy the report in order to read it. Well, Mr President, at first the Offices told me that it had been published on the site and I felt responsible in a certain sense, because I am generally careful and some things, usually, do not escape me. So I went to the site to see document IV, No. 14, and I didn't find President Stefano's report at all. I therefore returned to the Offices, where they confirmed that there had been no publication of the report and, since I had requested a copy of it to read it, they added that photostatic copies were being prepared to distribute them to this House. Mr President, would you have taken a decision, as a magistrate, if you had not been given the documents and the documents? I cannot, Mr President, cooperate with that obscurantist culture which sees a part of public opinion enjoying when a powerful person is arrested (a powerful one is said to be). I don't intend to cooperate. I intend to express a serene judgment and - as Senator Caliendo has said - also authorize the execution of the order - why not - but only after reading I do not say the 1,000-2,000 pages to which Senator Giovanardi referred, but at least the 107 pages of the report of President Stephen. Do I have the right or not to read them? And if the offices of the Senate, which you and your collaborators govern, have not been able until now, at noon minus ten, to make that report available to me, because they tell me that copies are being made to make them available to the House, I ask myself the following question: Mr President, how can you ever ask me to vote on an authorization to execute a protective order in prison, today, on 4 August, without reading the acts? Mr President, you cannot do this wrong. You cannot limit my parliamentary mandate. And I don't think, President, that she will. I am sure, Mr President, that you will give me the opportunity to read at least President Stefano's report which I do not believe will have been written in a quarter of an hour. President Stefano will have taken part of his precious time to write the report. Well, may I ask you to commit part of my time to reading what he has written? For the truth, it also seems to me that it is an attitude of extreme institutional rudeness towards President Stefano who studied, deepened and produced a report, but did it for who, for himself? Did he do it for anyone? No, to me it seems correct and respectful to President Stefano to read what he wrote, to read the fruit of his insights and his convictions. I believe that preventing me from reading that report constitutes a violation of my mandate, of my right to fully exercise my parliamentary mandate and also an attitude of great rudeness towards those who have committed, their time in drawing up a report which, due to a dysfunction, is not then offered in vision to the members of the Senate. For this reason, Mr President, I would ask you not to allow me but the offices to make copies. I'm not doing this for myself. You should allow offices to do their job and it is not easy to do it in a matter of minutes. We give time to our officials, our employees to work properly. We cannot expect them, with the magic wand, like Mandrake, to solve the problems. For this reason, Mr President, if you do not allow me to read the documents, I will probably leave the Chamber because I do not feel that I can assume the weight of the responsibility to vote in one way or another. [[Applause from the AL-A and FI-Pdl XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u78	Senator Falanga, you start from an incorrect assumption of fact. The 107 pages you are talking about constitute document IV, n. 14, which is at the base. Senator Stefano's report is 12 pages long. I invite Senator Stephen to clarify this point. And not only that. The acts - as you know - are available only to members of the Junta and not to all senators. Moreover, I must add that, since this is an order for protective custody of the gip, the act is so public that it is also on the Internet. However, only members of the Junta can officially view the acts of the Junta. I think that's clear. [[Senator Falanga's comments.]] I repeat that Senator Stephen's report is 12 pages long and has been printed and distributed this morning. Senator Falanga, that's the point. The 107-page document you referred to is part of the proceedings of the Junta and is document IV, n. 14. FALANGA (AL-A). Then what are they photocopying? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't know who you're contacting and who you're giving her this information. They are photocopiers perhaps for the needs of the Office, and certainly not for the House and for the senators. If they do this, we will provide. I am pleased that you have pointed out such a situation, but it does not appear to us. Senator Stefano, I'm asking if you're going to intervene to clarify the point.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u79	Mr President, I thought my clarification would be in response. My report - as you rightly said - is about ten pages, net of cover. The 107 pages to which reference is made are an extract of the order that, as a practice, the Junta publishes on the site of the Senate from the day on which it incarnates the discussion. So, the Senate grant has been available to everyone since July 20th. The documents that the judiciary sent to us by the Public Prosecutor of Reggio Calabria are secreted and, therefore, can only be read by the members of Giunta, according to Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure, without the possibility of producing a copy. My report, I repeat, is about ten pages long.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u80	There is the custom of preannouncing interventions. We cannot organise the progress of the work if there is a continuous request to intervene. [[Senator Tarquinio points out that he wants to intervene.]] I would point out that Senator Tarquinio's Group has already intervened. Tarquinio (CoR). It's something else. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. At the moment I would like to know who has to intervene in order to regulate the debate. Senator Russo asks to intervene and we take note of it. If there are no other senators who intend to intervene after Senator Tarquinio, let's put a point. Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). I'm asking you to talk about the debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is A senator from his Group has already spoken on the debate. So, you can't do that. Senator Tarquinio, do you speak on a new question or suspensive? We are in the process of examining the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. When other matters arise, they will be raised. We are now in the process of proposing preliminary and suspensive questions. Let's give Senator Tarquinio the floor to understand what he's doing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u81	Mr President, I would like to make a reference.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u82	Would you like to make a new reference? Otherwise, he can't intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u83	Tarquinio (CoR). Compress a debate of this kind and delicacy... Senator Tarquinio, we still have many stages in which you will be able to intervene: in discussion, in explanation of vote. We are still at the stage of the question. It's not a stage of merit. If you have a new question for a preliminary ruling or suspension, I give you the floor. Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, I have a problem with you. Serious statements have been made. It has been stated by some colleagues that in the papers the PM indicates a camorrist who was in prison. It's an incredible and serious fact that leads me to ask how to move forward, if that's true. I expected someone in the replica to tell me it was wrong. And instead, it passes in silence that in the cards a pm declared false. Do we realize that? I hope someone gets up and tells me that's not the case. That this passes into the grave silence is incredible. Are we giving up everything? This entire political class (old, new or old) renounces its role? Do you really want to stop being the center of the country or the center of the country are others? I want an answer. If the statement remains so and the PM has written the forgery, because that criminal was in prison at that time, the fact is serious and the acts must be passed on to those who are responsible for this House and to the whole of Parliament. Otherwise we're not there and we're over everything, it's all over. The others don't even get a fly. I don't want anything to go by, I wouldn't have said a word and I won't say more, because the subject is delicate. But, with sincerity, I have not accepted anything, for the ancient political culture to which I belong, with fatiosity. I say this to everyone: you do not decide to put someone in jail, whoever he is, for mere reasons of partisanity. I am not addressing you, Mr President, but the House, because it is up to the House to do so. You've done your duty, for what you've done, and I recognize it beyond anything. This House is deaf and does not want to understand. If, for political reasons, we have to go on like this, we have to ask ourselves what we are doing. I say it in complete freedom and this is not the first time I speak outside the choir: I have always been like this. First of all, I have to answer to myself. Listening to accusations of that guy makes me shudder. But do we realize what it means that on any of us we build what we want from some who obscure the real work of the many magistrates who also lose their lives? This is the real fact; and does the House have nothing to say about this? No one answered me, not even the President of the Council. I want to hear myself say: "It is not so; it is true that that delinquent was present." Instead, the criminal is in prison and becomes the central pivot of an indictment. Mr President, that is the point. You tell me what's there, or else we'll pass these acts on to whom we're supposed to be. I will try to take further action later. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and CoR groups, and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u84	Senator Tarquinio, probably during the discussion or explanations of vote you will be able to have a contience of the element that places as fundamental to the conscience of those who vote. So, we take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u87	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I rise to state that the Group of the Party of European Socialists has taken note - as President Zanda said - of the legitimate decision of the Presidency to reverse the order of business and, in line with this decision, will vote against the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. VOICE FROM THE FI-PdL GROUP XVII. Bravo! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). As usual.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u88	I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senators Malan, Giovanardi, Augello and Tarquinio. It's not approved. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask everyone to reach their seats and I ask the Secretary Senators to check that the cards present correspond to the presence of the senators. I also call for the cooperation of the senators so that, if there is a forgotten card in their vicinity, they can remove it. I hope there's this cooperation. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the suspensive question raised, with several reasons, by Senators Malan, Giovanardi and Alicata. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u89	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Caridi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor here to defend not only my freedom, the history of my life, my dignity and that of my family, but also my role as a Member of Parliament, as a representative of the people at a time when an accusation, as shocking as it is deeply unjust to me, has upset my life and that of my loved ones. I know, as many people say, that this is not the place to do the trial, analysing in detail the elements of accusation or the development of investigations. As far as I can, I will try not to be too analytical, referring to the memory that, despite the shortness of time available, I have prepared together with my lawyers. I cannot avoid starting my speech by saying that I am innocent, that I have never had relations or entered into agreements with organized crime, I have never participated in secret bodies, nor in Masonic lodges, and I have never sold out my role. I am accused of having been part of an apical and secret component of the 'ndrangheta, even without indicating a fact - one - that would prove that infamous accusation. In the twenty years of investigation, the facts of the role so fundamental that I am charged would be, in fact, the recruitment of six people in a subsidiary company of the Municipality, that is the circumstance, narrated but not demonstrated in any way, according to which I would have assured the care of a doctor - not me, but a person other than me - to a fugitive. It does not indicate, however, to me that I should defend myself, and to you, that you will have to decide, whether it is right to deprive me of my freedom in view of the trial and, at the same time, to vulnerate the integrity of Parliament, when, how and where this pseudofact would happen: not a specific circumstance, a description, a nothing. I am accused of having always had the electoral support of the Cosche. Yet we forget those elections in 2000 and 2005 in which I was unable to be elected, i.e. I received fewer votes than other candidates in the countries in which, historically, the families of the 'ndrangheta' play a decisive role. What logic is there in this? How is it possible to command the thighs, influence the elections, and then lose them? How is it possible to postpone - as is expected in memory - the fact that my consents in 2005 fall if I had been part of the political summit of the 'ndrangheta'? How is it possible, after X-raying my political activity in order to show that it was influenced by the support of the thighs, to forget that I come from a family in which both my father and my uncle have done political activity with flattering results and without ever a shadow in their past? I am accused of having been, even permanently, part of the Cosca De Stefano Tegano, through a person, the Chirico, incensured, with whom relations have been interrupted for over twelve years, as the papers show unequivocally. In the same way, the papers show that these relationships have broken because he had asked me for personal favors that I did not do to him, and that he complains about in an interception in a clear way. I am accused, specifically, of having agreed with the Lock Leather the electoral support...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u91	I'm sorry to interrupt, but someone's doing unauthorized footage.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u92	[[Comments from the PD Group at the address of the M5S Group.]] Mr Caleo (PD). Shame! EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caridi, I'm sorry for the interruption, but you were obliged. AIROLA (M5S). He's talking about the mob and you're worried about a shot! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). You can see everything on the Sky channel! [[Comments from the PD Group. Senator Fattori mimics a handcuffed person at the address of the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u93	Colleagues, I invite you to be quiet. I intervened.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u94	Please, Senator Caridi, I invite you to continue. CARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). I am accused of having agreed with the Pelle cosca the electoral support for a meeting that, according to investigators, would last one hundred and twenty seconds, but we cancel the results of other trials that have verified that in San Luca, the country of that family, I took less votes than all the other candidates. One forgets that in the home of one of these leading members of that family a bug recorded for a very long period of time all the conversations, with people who for this reason were tried and condemned, but never my presence, never my voice. We forget that on all the electoral rounds that have been held in Calabria in recent years, investigations and trials have been carried out, scanning all the most hidden folds of the relations between political power and criminal circles, without ever finding anything serious to challenge me. Bisinella (Misto-Fare!). He's filming! [[Comments from PD, M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). That's not true!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u95	Because you all know that... (Senator Arrigoni approaches the benches of the M5S Group). Senator Arrigoni, please reach your post. [[Comments from Senator Fattori.]] Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I don't take a "fudge" from her! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni, please! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Senator Arrigoni! The session is public, it is streamed and everyone can see it. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). He gets it. [[Senator Fattori's protests. Senator Manconi's comments.]] I call my colleagues back to order. As soon as I catch another person filming, there is no need to intervene: you can sit directly outside the Chamber, you are expelled. [[Applause from Senators Puppato and Repetti.]] We cannot do private broadcasting: this is a public session. There's no sign of handcuffs or anything. Please! CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). It is shameful to deal with certain matters in this way! [[Comments from Senator Fattori.]] Senator Fattori, I'll call you back to order. I would ask you to avoid attitudes which do not allow such a delicate debate to proceed according to the rules. Let us be aware of the delicacy of the situation and let us all be aware of the situation. [[Comments of the Divine Senator.]] Please, Senator Caridi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u96	I am accused of being organic to mafia families for having maintained relationships with people, such as Chirico, Romeo, Sarra, that the cards, the cards that should accuse me, reveal to be people that in some cases I haven't frequented in years, that, before interrupting my relationships, they showed aversion. You judge how coherent and logical it is to write that I would belong to a top organ of the 'ndrangheta', that is, the apical component of the process, "secret" and "reserved" to perform a function of strategic direction, in symbiotic exchange with the operative bodies, and then discover in the pages of the process not only that not even one of the so-called repentant who spoke of me has reported anything about this my so fundamental presence but, indeed, verify that who (such Virgil and the Judge) has spoken of the so-called "reserved" members of the 'ndrangheta has never done, even remotely, my name. After all, I would be part of a summit that oversees the strategic activities of the coasts and yet I would be forced to beg votes, without even getting them. I would be in the heart of the mob organization, but the gip - reflected on this fact - has excluded that in my case the charge referred to in article 416- bis, second paragraph, of the penal code, that is, the one sanctioning the activity of promotion, direction and organization of the consortium, can be applied. What logic is there in this? You judge how it is possible that in two different trials the accusation changes: in one I would be a member of this absolute summit, in another stable member of a thigh, so much so that the second gip invested by a request for custody was forced to consider it illogical and inconsistent with what you face, so much so that it is not accepted. I will try to defend myself with all my strength, during the trial, from a theorem that appears to follow accusations without facts, without specific circumstances, or "heard to say." Yes, by "heared to say," and it is not my defense concerned, it is what the repentant Moio reports. Look at page 773 of the protective order, when he says "I know," I always know, "if he spoke about it," but without indicating by whom, how and when. Read when the same repentant, asked by the prosecutor, admits that he knows nothing about the fact that I may have done "favors" for the benefit of his family! "You knew," and that's enough to destroy my goodness, my life and my family. Read what would be the declarative evidence that you should use to send me to prison with respect to the exploitation of my powers as alderman, that is, fixed-term recruitment in favor of the Mafia. When the prosecutor asks: "That is, these recruitments to Leonia, how did they take place? Since you're always talking about voices of the environment? I think... I think... I think, just... I mean, it's my thought. And the prosecutor, instead of asking him to account for facts and not thoughts, blasphemes him saying: "Eh, let's see this thought." And Moio would be the regret that on my account, according to the request of the prosecutor and the order of the gip, would give the most important contribution. Not one of those who are valued as repentant in this process knows me personally, has ever attended me, has ever had relationships, is clear. The only one with whom I have had relations is such Aiello, director of a mixed society, so not a criminal, who begins to make statements, as a witness, in 2005, and does not accuse me of mafia, even if he talks about hiring favors in companies controlled by local authorities; favor assumptions that refer to a plurality of politicians at that time. Then he becomes a collaborator and confesses relationships with some thighs, except to distinguish the favors he would have done to them and those he would have done to me precisely in the matter of hiring. But those who indicate how hired on my indication have no relationship with the 'ndrangheta, no precedent. The repentant Aiello, so unbelievable that he indicates in such Caponera the one who would manage on behalf of the Mafia De Stefano the relationships in relation to the society Fata Morgana, and even would have participated in my supposed encounter with them, only that during the period when this happened the Caponera was held, having been arrested in 2005 and remained in state of deprivation of freedom until 2009, as unequivocally testified by the judgments that concern him, that only in the last hours my defense has managed to find. So, Aiello is blatantly disproved about the only specific circumstance that a collaborator reports on my account. Not only did I not meet Caponera, but I could not meet him because precisely in the years indicated by the collaborator the Caponera was detained. You judge whether it is logical and consistent with the abnormal development of this affair, after treating me as a game to which you grant the long step, assume the existence of precautionary requirements that should automatically take me to prison, after the last facts that have a minimum of determination, reported by the unreliable Aiello, i.e. the infamous six, say six, fixed-term recruitment of censored people, date back to 2008 at the latest. You judge, because yours will be a judgment in defense of the healings of a parliamentarians, if it is possible that a conversation in which there is talk of politics, such as that which occurred at the time between me and Senator Valentino, never even touched on by accusations of mafia (because that is the seat where, for the accusations, the summit was born, that is in a conversation between me and a Undersecretary for justice), can become the "programmatic manifesto" of the supersecret loggia, of the link between mafia and politics, just because there has been talk of a "change to honor" sentence that neither I have uttered and accompanied by clear laughter, just to show that a joke was involved. You judge, because yours will be a judgment in defense of the separation of powers, if it is possible to exclude the exploitation or even only the misuse of judicial instruments, the indirect effect of which would be to deny the integrity of Parliament, if a person, a political exponent, a parliamentarians can in fact be continuously inquisition for more than three luxuries, questioning on his behalf the collaborators of justice with often suggestive questions, arranging telephone interceptions, without ever bringing him to judgment, without never informing him of the accusations, generic but dating back to the early 2000s. You judge the degree of civilization of a system that allows, all this time, before evaluating the elements collected not even suitable to challenge a single crime and, then, to "reread" the cards, the same cards, and find that you are in front of a member of a top body of the thighs. With the paradoxical result that for years and years no precautionary requirement was hypothesized and then, re-reading the cards and enucleating a theorem, would I become so dangerous that I could not face my trial in freedom? For two weeks I have lived the nightmare of those who regard their lives in the endless papers of investigations that have lasted for years and years, of pieces of conversation isolated from the context, of facts reread in the light of the principle post hoc propter hoc. For two weeks I have been living the nightmare of not recognizing my life as an esteemed professional in the deformed lens of those who indicate a visit made at my studio as a comfort element of my intraneity with mafia environments. In my land, especially when you are among the people to make politics, allusion is always lurking, the millantery interested in the speeches of others that becomes evidence of illicit co-interest, bad association, even when it involves you without your responsibility, without your awareness. I know that the debate in these cases focuses on the limits that would be imposed on Parliament by due respect for judicial activity, so that the decisions of the judges would be intangible and the only matter under discussion would be the verification of the possible misuse of the judiciary so evident as to become political persecution. It's not like that. A modern conception, repeatedly confirmed by the Constitutional Court, of what is the constitutional balance of the values at stake, leads to the need to exploit, precisely analysing them, a whole series of elements that never, as on this occasion, require to defend the integrity of Parliament. Elements that in this story are found all: the abnormity of the times of investigation, the contradiction and the illogicality of the accusatory construct, the lack of individualizing verifications to the dated declarations of the repentant, the incoherence with other and contextual investigations, the lack for more than three lustres of any accusation based on the same probative bases, the malgovernment of the teachings of the united sections of the Court of Cassation, both with regard to the substantive matter, in the matter of participation or external competition in Mafia association, and in the matter of procedural on the evaluation of the collaborators also in the precautionary session. It is true, it is not possible and it would not even be fair to seek an assessment of your judicial sensu in this Chamber, but in the face of such old investigations, in the face of such different assessments compared to the same evidence, so much so that on the same elements, for years, not only did no one consider to be prosecuting, but less thought that I was so dangerous that I had to be deprived of my freedom pending the trial, you will have to determine whether this solution is imperative. It is true that this is not the place to do the trial, but it is the place where an injustice can be perpetuated to a man, to a citizen, to a parliamentarians, in the name of political reason and in contempt for the right and the Constitution. I am and declare myself innocent and I am sure that this will be recognized to me in court and I entrust to your conscience as parliamentarians the integrity of the Senate, even before my freedom. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), FI-PdL XVII, AP(NCD-UDC), AL-A, CoR and Mixed.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u97	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u98	Mr President, after Senator Caridi's speech, it should even be superfluous to take further action, partly because what he has said is what is contained in the papers. It is not his personal positions or objectionable statements, I repeat: it is what is written in the papers. That is, we have a resounding contradiction in the documents themselves, in which the titles say things, but the facts say a lot more. For example, Senator Caridi, in his political career, would always have enjoyed the support of the 'ndrangheta in the elections; however, meanwhile, the first two times that he has applied to the regional council, starting from a position of a certain force (that of city councilor of the City of the provincial capital), has not been elected and the territorial analysis says that precisely in the municipalities where there is the 'ndrangheta, that according to the investigators and according to the analyses of those who study the phenomenon, it had to be stronger. But not only that, because even if he had only two votes and had them for reports, for a vote of political-mafia exchange, it would still be a crime and it would be prosecutable. The problem is that it is said that it has consistently exercised its political action supported by the 'ndrangheta with the votes of the 'ndrangheta' (even when, apparently, the 'ndrangheta' did not make it and, on the other hand, made it possible to have others elected), but it is not incriminated by a vote of political-mafia exchange. He would have constantly benefited from the support and vows of the 'ndrangheta and, in return, would have done favors, but you do not charge him for that crime, it is said that he was part of the 'ndrangheta. In the same way, his fault would be - another evidence, which proves it is not - that he had a certain number of people hired, however very limited within twenty years, always within the framework of his collaboration with the 'ndrangheta, and these people are indicated in the ordinance as prominent affiliates of a certain thigh, but they are all persons incensured. That is to say that justice had no idea that these people could, in some way, be linked to crime, while Senator Caridi, who was not senator at the time, is charged the fact that he would, not alone, but together with others (here it is written in a clear way), helped to make them assume, without being charged with having committed any irregularities or having violated any rules for these people to be assumed. Even, these people are incensored. As sometimes happens for certain products (now we can no longer do, because strict rules have been introduced against those who sell them), which have a name or that on the label give the idea of containing a certain thing and then contain another, the content does not correspond: in the titles of the accusations it promises who knows what, but not only there is no evidence, but there is not even the corresponding crime. We use a very serious crime but in itself generic and, if not proven, the seriousness of the crime falls on those who make the accusation. In fact, an unfounded accusation, especially of a serious crime, falls on who formulates it, certainly not on who suffers it. Even in the report by President Stefano, the real one, the ten-page report he spoke about, it has been established that it is necessary to assess here not only the seriousness of the accusations, but also their justification. It is not claimed here to have the unmistakable proof of guilt, because it is a precautionary measure, there is still no trial and only in the trial can the unmistakable proof be formed, but at least one asks to have some strong clue. There's nothing here. Nothing. One of the main elements is a phone call with the phrase on the bill of exchange to be honored, but, listening to the whole call, it is clear that there was not even a joke about the intention to allude to some form of commitment to crime. It was a political commitment made between the various parties participating in the nomination of a candidate, which is jokingly compared to a bill of exchange; but the joke is to compare the political commitment to a bill of exchange, both things that are not criminal, and certainly not to suggest a criminal aspect in this commitment. Yet this is one of the main points of the prosecution: this is the disturbing thing. Then there are also other elements that should lead to a reflection of colleagues who are now going to eat and then, with their belly full, will vote according to the indications of the Parent Company and therefore without having listened to the facts and without having listened to the reflections of those who were able to see the papers. But much so, if you vote as the Parent Company decides, you don't need to read the papers and you don't need to know. Maybe someone thinks that so much responsibility is not the one who executes the order, but only the one who gives it. I then give bad news to colleagues who think they are doing so: criminal responsibility and, above all, human responsibility is the responsibility of those who do the act. The one who gives the order has his responsibilities, but the one who does it also has his own. After what Senator Caridi said and after the few who will listen to the following speeches will also take on other elements, I believe those who have listened will find the absence of reactions or convincing replicas or speakers from those who support the position of the arrest. Here we have heard one voice: we have listened to Senator Caridi. If there were convincing counter-deductions, discovering flaws in the words of Senator Caridi and who, like me, will speak against the decision to arrest, it would be different, it is clear. I believe that anyone who has listened to Senator Caridi's words appeared extremely convincing, but if other words are more convincing, if they find themselves, as Senator Caridi said, not true predictions, then things change, but I announce that we will not hear them. On the questions referred for a preliminary ruling we have not heard any reply, on the fact that there is no information and on the fact that there is no evidence there has been no reply: there is the request and we vote. That's it. And why do many think and still announce to vote for the arrest, if in conscience they have understood that the arrest is unfair, if any evidence shows that, at least, there is not the slightest concrete evidence against Senator Caridi? But there is more; we have something more. If for any one of us, who is in this House or listens to us, the problem arises if he is an affiliate of any criminal organization, it would obviously be difficult to establish yes, but it would also be difficult to exclude it, because how do we do it? I meet someone for the first time and I wonder: who knows if this is a criminal or not? But Senator Caridi has his meetings monitored and his conversations intercepted for fourteen, maybe sixteen, maybe twenty years (of course for fourteen years). If in these fourteen years nothing has been found, it is not only that we lack the evidence or at least the clues that tell us that Senator Caridi is probably (even probably) a person affiliated to the thighs and is dangerous in his acts and so on, but we really have almost the impossible proof. That is, if in fourteen or fifteen years, which are actually even more, of investigation into a person you can't even find the shadow of a crime, so much so that you have to stick to the fact that fourteen years ago another person (not him) talks about bills to be honored (as if to pronounce the expression "change to be honored" indicates membership of the Mafia), we have clear proof that there is absolute nothing here. And even those who place themselves in the most neutral or even biased way towards Senator Caridi must see that, if in fourteen years of absolute control over his acts, looking also at the nuances and jokes made by others on other things, there is nothing but this nothing, well, then here we have the proof. I come back to the question I asked: why does anyone think they are voting in favour? Because someone thinks it and says it, announces it. The reason is very simple: it is feared to pass for those who defend the criminals, being Senator Caridi accused of being part of the 'ndrangheta. So let us not get our hands dirty to exercise justice, otherwise it seems that we help him! In other words, we reject justice because we are afraid of a newspaper headline. And what if the magistrates did so and did so with regard to each one of you who are here and each of those who listen to us? What would happen if they accused you unjustly, perhaps of serious crimes, and the magistrates were afraid to say that there is no evidence and consequently they did not absolve? If the magistrates behave like this, every one of us here in this Chamber and every one of us who listens to us (and even those who do not listen to us) could very well end up being condemned to the heaviest of the penalties for absolute nothingness! It is often said that politics must set a good example. One of the main functions for which states or powers historically arise in some way political is the administration of justice, and if an organ representing the Italian people prefers to avoid getting their hands dirty - and of this there is a fairly famous example - to do justice, it means that his hands are defiled with blood and therefore that organ does exactly the opposite of what it should do. If those to whom the citizens entrust - with much skepticism, we know well, because of the current wave of anti-parliamentaryism and anti-politicalism - the keys of their country have such a level of cowardice that for fear of some title they send a person against whom not only there is no evidence, but there is evidence that in the fifteen years she has been under observation no evidence has been found, we are really faced with a serious illness, a serious illness of institutions and society. Everyone who votes must know that he is voting, she is voting, she is not voting for the leader and she is not voting for the editor of the newspaper who already prepares the title (save the mafia) because a politician who sues a newspaper, especially if it is not left-wing, and often even a left-wing politician has already lost whatever title has been dedicated to him (also this should be common heritage). If we renounce the exercise of justice in order to avoid a headline, I would say that we have reached a serious level of misery and it will not be the fault of bad society, the press, the leader or the leader of the party, it will be the fault - I say it in positive - of each of us. A famous thinker says that the essential thing for the wicked to prevail is that good people do nothing. I trust that there are largely good people in this House, but they intend to do nothing. Today is not the time to do nothing. Today we make a decision of conscience that does not concern the person of Senator Caridi, but concerns the guarantees of the body elected by citizens to be able to work without the possibility of being in some way prosecuted for the role played. I still remember one thing, very quietly. I repeat that I do not believe, because there is no evidence, to the accusatory picture that is proposed, but in the papers it is written that Senator Caridi operates, I quote: "in a stable, continuous and conscious way in favor of the aforementioned criminal system of mafia type," which would be the 'ndrangheta, a system that he facilitates through the diverted use of his public role, in the various public roles he had in municipal council, regional council and also in the Senate. According to these papers, that is, Senator Caridi acts in the Senate, as he acted on the regional and municipal council, on the basis of the indications and conveniences of the criminal organization of which he would belong and it may also happen that on detailed votes this is not true. I remember, however, that on 14 October 2014 Senator Caridi's vote was decisive, so that a document that was very important and indispensable to the political action of the Renzi Government was approved on that occasion. Indispensable: it was written in the device itself, which was approved with 161 votes, when the minimum was 161, with 160 votes would be rejected. This was a measure presented by the Chairman of the Zanda Democratic Party Group and others, which allowed the Government to deviate from the balanced budgetary objectives imposed by both European constraints and Article 81 of the Constitution. The document clearly stated that, in the absence of the approval of this deviation, a maneuver between EUR 14 and EUR 35 billion would have been needed, which meant increased taxes and heavy cuts to all expenditure in addition to those made. It was indispensable; everyone agreed that if that document had not passed, the Renzi Government would have to resign. Well, if it is true that Senator Caridi votes and acts politically according to the orders of the 'ndrangheta, it means that it had decided that the Renzi Government remained, because if it had decided otherwise, it could have dropped the Renzi Government. I repeat that I do not believe in this proposition and this accusation, but the judges believe it and those who vote in favour of this request for arrest say that the Renzi Government holds up by decision of the 'ndrangheta. I do not believe it, because I believe it stands for political reasons that I do not agree with and strongly oppose, and I absolutely do not believe that the vote of Senator Caridi and that of the many other esteemed colleagues who have contributed, each, to reaching the 161-vote threshold has been given in that direction, but that is what the prosecution says and that is what the Senate will say if it votes in favour of the arrest. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u99	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u100	Mr President, I met Senator Caridi in 1997, when he was about 28 years old and had just been elected City Councillor, because I went to Reggio Calabria to present my book "Stories of extraordinary injustice." I had chosen Reggio Calabria because former mayor Pierino Battaglia and former Congressman Quattrone had taken months or years in prison, accused of being the perpetrators of the assassin of the president of the Ligato railroads, and then had been acquitted with full formula. It was one of many cases of history of extraordinary injustice and I found myself in a crowded room because Quattrone and Battaglia, especially the latter, were considered by public opinion as people of integrity. They had suffered this incredible judicial ordeal and the shame of prison for months or years and then had been acquitted with full formula. I have the memory of this affair and this young city councilman. Then, Mr President, I also have the memory of parliamentary classrooms and parliamentary events, such as the one in which the roundabouts were handed over by the National Convention to the executioners and their heads were cut off because, as is well known, this House decided by a majority to hand them over to the scaffold because they had political differences with the Jacobine majority. I can recall, again in the use of the parliamentary regulations, that the Fascists had the possessors deceased by Members using a regulatory instrument: they did not participate in the Assembly and were therefore declared to have fallen. This is to say that in parliamentary history there are shameful episodes that history has then recognized as such and that we risk repeating today in this House. I have not yet heard anyone, except the President of the Council, explain to me what is the single and specific episode in which Senator Caridi would have favored, as executor, the Mafia. I see in the gallery the journalist Milella, of the Republic, but not only her, all the newspapers, this morning, have continued to write the old version, that Senator Caridi is the head of the dome of the Mammasantissima: it has escaped them that this accusation has totally fallen. Today it is not asked the arrest of Caridi because he is the head of something, but because he would be a simple executor; I do not say a labourer of the 'ndrangheta, but he would have a role, used when he was city councilor or provincial or senator, to cure these interests. The rapporteur says, with a phrase that I will repeat and on which I will write a book, that it is not implausible that this has happened. Now, the expression "not implausible" means that it is not to be excluded, but they have explained to us that he must go to prison without the problem of danger of escape, pollution of evidence or recurrence of the crime, but because, being a mafia offense, the prison automatically triggers if there is evidence or serious clues. I haven't seen evidence. What is the specific act that he would commit to favor the 'ndrangheta or the mafia? Yes, in the record there is the recruitment of five ecological operators - sweepers, let's be clear - for a fixed time. So, in his fifteen years as alderman and whatever else, he would be guilty of hiring five people, I imagine in competition with all the politicians from Calabria, Sicilian, Apulian or Campania, because when they did the aldermen, it would have happened to them too to hire in the companies of the censored people, who have nothing to do with the mafia. That would be the indication. And then there are two or three interceptions that - alas - have been totally denied by the facts. But it is said - and, colleagues, I call everyone to this principle - that he was a friend of Francesco Chirico. Francesco Chirico militated in his party, he was an uncensored person, but he helped him, when he was elected City Councillor, to collect the votes. What's the problem, if an uncensored person, a city employee, helped him pick up the votes? With this person then broke relationships, as shown by the cards, because, thinking the Chirico to be then favored by the Caridi, when the latter did not promote him, he became his bitter enemy. Then it is argued: it is true that Francesco Chirico is incensured, but he has relations with a mafia family. It is a problem that I have talked about a thousand times in this House and which applies to the South, to Modena, as well as to Lombardy: what should an honest person do if in the regions with high mob density has affinity or relation to dishonest people? You don't have to go to work anymore? Does he no longer have to carry out a professional activity? Must he be struck by anti-mafia interdictive because his brother married a woman who is the daughter of someone "who is part of"? That of personal civil, administrative and criminal liability that is different from hearing or kinship is a problem that I have posed a thousand times. But here it is charged to the Caridi for having had the electoral support of an honest and uncensored person because she has relatives. Do we want to talk about the other queen test of the senator and undersecretary Valentino and one such Romeo who was, at the time, censored and who two years ago was received here in the Senate, after the conviction, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (not Caridi, Romeo was welcomed here in the Senate and participated)? If anyone had the patience to read the ten pages in which Senator Valentino and Romeo and Caridi talk about his candidacy, he would find one of the most beautiful pages of transparency and honesty I have ever seen. Because they only talk about Calabria's development and innovative ideas. Valentino remembers that he comes from the right so he has no culture of government, while... (The President spoke with Senator Secretary Scoma). I'd like to speak to the president, sorry. I repeat, I would like to speak to the President. Since I have to address the President, I would like the President to listen to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The House, too. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Yes, to the House, but I have to address the President and then to the House, but I have been referred to many times for the fact that I have to address the President. I was saying, it is one of the most beautiful pages of transparency, because Valentino remembers that it comes from the right, that it has no culture of government, and the Caridi instead comes from a Christian-demochristian family, that the father was a recordman of preferences, like his uncle, Bruno Porcino, doctor esteemed and everything else. At the end of this conversation, the Undersecretary for Justice Valentino, who is currently one of the most respected Italian lawyers, never reached by any suspicion, says: Caridi, once elected - he wanted to be mayor or deputy mayor - remember that you have to pay us a bill of exchange! And down laughs from everyone. Well, the bill of exchange is the queen's proof of his affiliation and participation at the top of the dome. When you read something like this, you think that any of your colleagues can be dragged into an infamous judicial affair by someone who really takes fireflies for lanterns. Or perhaps he has never participated and does not know that, when the Head of State deals with the formation of the new Government and the appointment of Ministers, he examines the characteristics of each person, saying "yes," "no." Or I think of the formation of a municipal council: if the mayor is of a party, the deputy mayor will be of another party, because - it is called democracy - we must take into account the relations of force, especially between parties. If this is bad luck. Then there's the bill that Valentino talked about, which would be proof. That is the main evidence and the meeting with the person who was in jail is the other evidence that is being carried. Due to the circumstances that are charged to him, there is no other proof that this, that is the fact that he would be chatted to Reggio Calabria, certainly not to Cuneo, to have frequentations or knowledge in a reality where the cosche, unfortunately, exist. I'd like to know who can defend themselves against general accusations of this kind. It has rightly been said that there is a trial and, in that context, he will assert his reasons and the prosecution will try to prove its own. I remember - I wrote it in the book - that, at the time, 90% of my 90 incriminated colleagues were acquitted. The crime was not prescribed, but it was absolution or storage because the crime charged did not exist. I am talking about parliamentarians and the years 1992-1994. I repeat: this has happened 90 times in 100. Here is a request to send Senator Caridi to jail, to jail him, to make him lose his personal freedom, to destroy his family tranquillity and to give an image of his colleagues who believe that he is a criminal. In these three years - it's known to everyone, isn't it? - he has conditioned the work of Parliament. It's obvious: we all know that Senator Caridi was the black man who determined the Senate's address over the years, didn't we? As a senator, he definitely didn't. Moreover, it has been said and demonstrated in Junta that we are talking about things that have happened in the last eighteen years: the first interceptions date back to the years 1997-1998 and then there are those of 2002. There are acts that have been examined in so many trials, in which other people, including their competitors, have rightly been condemned. Caridi was not elected to the regional elections and the votes of the families were insufficient for him, but not for other candidates who in the trials emerged as beneficiaries. If St. Luke's thigh (I think the Pelle clan) supported him, how to explain that in that country he obtained 22 votes, while the first took 120 votes and, to follow, the others? I repeat: how can we say that Caridi obtained the support of the 'ndrangheta of San Luca if in that country he obtained 22 votes and the other 120? That's what I asked for in Junta. In Giunta, in the defense that he had to rabble in a few days and that he illustrated yesterday morning, Caridi provided all the electoral tables and explained by thread and sign things. If he said false things, it is right that he should go to prison, but if he said true things because the Junta did not verify - he could do so - the truthfulness of his statements? Why do we have to vote whether or not to send him to prison if, in an investigation that lasted a few hours and with three interruptions (we had to be here for the votes), no one was able to read the last 1,500 pages, nor to carefully evaluate what he said? If what he said is true, why does he have to go to jail? But why should he lose his personal freedom, among other things since the review court has to decide on August 13? Colleagues, with the secret vote you have to look inside and think that this is something that can happen to everyone. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Yes, accusations of this kind can happen to everyone, because when they are built on nothing they can happen to everyone to be in this situation. We assume the responsibility of sending into prison on the basis not of some concrete element, but of assumptions. Mr President - and we will also say this in an explanation of vote - there is a lack of minimum elements to remove personal freedom from a Member of Parliament and to change arrangements. This is what Mr Malan said, although clearly paradoxically: if Senator Caridi had not been there with his vote, the history of the Italian Parliament and the Government would have changed, there would have been no decisive vote and there would have been other political directions. Of course, he said it as a paradox, but we have seen that even the lack or presence of a Member of Parliament can be decisive: see the fall of Berlusconi, at the time, when a budget document was not adopted, since its vote ended in balance. In that case there was a lack of a Member, for whom the House of Deputies had granted arrest, who was therefore in prison, and who was then acquitted. Therefore, his physical lack has determined a different direction and orientation of Italian political life. Sending a Member of Parliament to prison, beyond his personal problems, is a very serious injury to the composition of the Senate and if it is decided on the basis of the non-indications we have had these days, I think it would be a very sad day for Parliament and the institutions. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and Senators Formigoni and Liuzzi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u101	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u102	Mr President, I must confess to you and to the House that I did not intend to take the floor, and therefore I did not prepare a structured speech, but I must speak to express the discomfort of the situation that involves me, at a time completely alien to my history and my profession. As everyone knows, I come from the health world and perhaps this situation makes me more fragile and vulnerable: when you take care of people and health, you are inclined to take on the problem of those who express concern for your health or one of your loved ones. This morning, when I heard all these things, I couldn't help but take charge of what I heard from my colleagues about Senator Caridi's position. I believe that this is a fact that is inherent in my profession: a requirement like this is dragged on the skin, you take it home and you cannot go to sleep peacefully knowing that your own patient who has been given a cure is dying and therefore is living a very difficult time with your family. Today I just had the feeling that I was unable to express the weight I feel in this situation, in front of a really complicated, difficult decision that has some unclear traits, also because I didn't really expect to be here this morning to hear these things. I therefore believe it is impossible to ask us today to decide, under these conditions, with this feeling of the House, on the personal freedom of a senator, whoever it is: today it is Senator Caridi, but I would have had the same feeling for any other. I have put together, in my head, the pieces of this strange morning, with great attention, and I have seen that, from what many colleagues have said, the House does not know very much the facts, it does not know exactly how things went and it did not understand well what the dynamics of the Junta were, which led to make this request so serious about the freedom of a person, an absolutely important fact. The Junta did so in a synthetic form: the rapporteur said that it condensed into ten pages acts that I heard being composed of 1,800 or 2,000 pages. I have to say that they were really good at enclosing in 10 pages 2,000 pages of acts: I did not see them, but I go only to sensation and impression. We even have colleagues who have said this morning that they are not in the Junta and that they are here, like me, to decide on the basis of a word, for something that cannot make the wrists tremble. When the President decides, a button must be pressed and, in this gesture, the life of a person and his family should be summed up. I really do not understand, even in the obvious legitimacy of the President's decision, this will to speed up the examination. I agree with Senator Zanda: the House was doing its job diligently, as it does in the vast majority of cases, since Members come here to do something they basically believe in. Politics is also a personal moment of participation in public life which is very important. There was this timetable, decided by the Conference of Leaders, approved by all of us. All of us, then, had taken care of a path written in the paper. From how they had directed the course of the session, although with a contrast based, as always, on the measures, on the merit and not on a obstructive will, it was ripening events that would eventually lead to evaluate the position of Senator Caridi. This, in my opinion, would have given everyone the opportunity, in the course of the work of this House, to take these papers as well. We are not, in fact, deciding on a light thing, or one can smile at it, but it must make us think about it. In the process of work, therefore, one could also really hope to have an extra minute, also to confront more experienced colleagues, who make justice their field, and deserve all my respect and that are the people to whom you normally ask something, to confront when you talk about such delicate things. In addition, I was surprised this morning that someone reported on new facts that have intervened, new facts that are relevant; so many pages, so many interceptions, so many situations that need to be analyzed. Perhaps for this reason I feel even more of this burden, to be confessed candidly to the House, on such a difficult and so serious decision for me. I was very impressed by what Mr Augello said, with great synthesis and with great calmness. He emphasized these new events and this accusatory facility addressed to Senator Caridi, who would have had a meeting during a dinner in a place whose name I don't remember (I didn't focus well as Senator Augello said, in fact, but I picked up the substance). In this place there would have been a person who, in fact, as the judiciary I think knew, was in prison. So we're relying on someone who might not even be there, because they're being held in the prison patricians. I was a little surprised by this and it further increased my sense of anguish for a decision that, the more time passes, the closer it gets and then it will lead the House to finish its work for the right summer break, but that for someone could have a different weight. I have also heard that on 13 August, as Mrs Bernini points out, the review court will meet to make it clear, at a time when it will become the right one, because the cards will be considered more convinced and more total and with more habit, because this is their work, unlike what happens to us today. I really hope that we don't get justiceist pressure from each other today. It is too easy to do the first in the class and wash your hands with a few broken gestures, as I have seen someone do in this House this morning. But that is a sign of weakness and not of strength, of superficiality, and not of the will to bring this House to the fulfilment of the right act. I know very well that we will all make a decision for Senator Caridi with great awareness, but we cannot wash our conscience with a superficial and fast act, which tends to look more at what will happen for us in half an hour than what will happen for him in a few hours. I heard there were 14 years of wiretapping. But, in my opinion, if anyone is guilty of anything, something has to come up all these years. With some clues, perhaps, but - and I say this even if it is not my job - without a proof for which my conscience can lead me to say: "I understood." There is in fact so much uncertainty, which comes from the speeches of my colleagues and that I am charged with that moral weight of conscience that has prompted me to share with you my discomfort this morning. I do not know what will happen in half an hour, but I really hope that each of us will not look at that thumb but at himself, as I did at the beginning of my speech and as I said. I always try to put myself in the shoes of others and I believe that if each of us put himself in the shoes of those who can only say that he has so much evidence but few accusations, he could understand that our decision must really be made with conscience, with much weight and leaving out of all our thoughts anything other than the facts that we have heard. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u103	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u104	Mr President, I too feel the anguish expressed a few minutes ago by Senator Mandelli. In the last few months of my law studies I had posed the problem whether to be a magistrate or not and I still have a deep admiration for those who have chosen this path, because I have always wondered how he can go to bed and sleep quietly who sends to prison a person who is supposedly innocent, waiting that for our Constitution anyone is an alleged innocent. I have done neither the magistrate nor the lawyer, but another profession and I am sorry to find myself today as someone who has to decide on the life of a senator, a citizen, and his family. Mr President, already according to what some Members of the Parliamentary Parliamentary Assembly have said, there has been a perception that we were faced with tight and short-lived times and content in a path that lacks the serenity necessary to assess such a high stake, that it affects the personal freedom of a Member of Parliament and that it undermines the very integrity of an institution such as the Senate. I did not even like what has happened in this House these days. There was a feeling there was an input, a cavalry coming up: Parliamentary groups usually do not guarantee the quorum that guaranteed it, not because of the functionality of Parliament's work, but to arrive as soon as possible at the final item on the agenda established by the Conference of Leaders, i.e. to take away the freedom of a colleague. I believe that the task of the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and then of the Assembly is not to decide on the innocence or guilt of Senator Caridi, but first of all to guarantee the principle of separation of powers. On the one hand, it is not necessary to intervene in the proceedings, thus respecting the work of the judiciary, and on the other hand, it is necessary to defend Parliament's autonomy. If we were merely to be a paperweight of prosecutors, we would completely lose our credibility, abdicating to the task to which we are constitutionally bound, that is, to evaluate, and, if necessary, mayor, the material made available by the judicial authority. Compared to the story that is involving Senator Caridi, it seems to me that the very serious accusations against him are not supported by any feedback; indeed, it emerges, from the competent judiciary, a framework of entirely superficial assessments and conjectures, which cannot justify the sacrifice of personal freedom through the precautionary measure, which will be subject to the scrutiny of the Court of Freedoms in a few days' time. You see, I have also wondered how it is possible that interceptions that date back to fourteen years ago are suddenly filmed now and all of a sudden acquire a probative value such as to put a person in prison. Attention. I remember that in the last parliamentary term a request for arrest came to the House for a then deputy and today Senator of the Democratic Party, which we rejected avoiding an unjust imprisonment, because then it was acquitted and we must be proud of this. The problem - and this is an institutionally serious problem - is that even in this Parliament, as is the case in too many courts, the long wave of judicialism is still coming and so we come to judgments built on popular and media indignation. Justice must be swift and without appeal in order to punish the accused in an exemplary way, even if they played marginal roles in judicial affairs. I believe, Mr President, that summary justice is never true justice, not least because, after the emotional emergency that calls for the immediate and exemplary condemnation of someone at first instance, all too often you appeal, emotion becomes rarefied, things appear a little different and judgment changes. It turns out, as unfortunately often happens in our country, that the investigations have been incomplete, that the evidence was not so certain, that the truth to Pasolini is affirmed, once again: I know who is the culprit but I do not have the evidence. This isn't justice. The structures of justice in Italy are unfortunately before everyone's eyes. There are many magistrates, the great majority, who do their duty in a commendable way, to whom we all owe gratitude and respect, but there have also, unfortunately, been magistrates who have used the politics and politicians who have used the judiciary, in a passage without interruptions between Parliament and courtrooms. I believe that in a civilized country politics and the judiciary must be two distinct things and walk autonomously from each other; on the contrary, in our country they often go hand in hand, they back up or harm each other, mutually, thus rendering a bad service to the country, to the citizens and above all to justice. There is another point that I think is right to stress: Article 68 of the Constitution does not only protect individual parliamentarians, but also the very institution of the Senate, as a whole, from interference from the judiciary or from disproportionate effects in the judiciary's request. Therefore, it is the same constitutional norm that recognizes to the political body the evaluation of the acts of the judiciary, acts that cannot be accepted uncritically and automatically, because this attitude ends up relegating the Junta and the Senate Assembly to an exclusively notary function. In this case we go against the same constitutional dictation. We have not been able to read the acts concerning Senator Caridi; we have read them hastily this morning, we have read them from the reports of the agencies. Fumus persecutionis leaks from such a fragile system of accusations, compared to such a serious, so improbable, so absurd, so hallucinating charge for the one to whom it falls upon. It is clear that there is fumus persecutionis and that it was a long investigation, transposed over time and then at the last moment so relentless. We are faced with a prosecutor who acts like this, who drags such a serious affair for fourteen years or more, because we are talking about an alleged leader of the 'ndrangheta; that is, he leaves himself free for fourteen years an alleged leader of the 'ndrangheta and then, at the last moment, suddenly realizes that he must be put in prison. I believe that in the face of such justice we must be afraid, Mr President, when the accusations are not supported by concrete evidence. I could give some examples, but I think my speech has already been quite clear. When the request for detention in prison is made after more than a decade, in a time frame in which nothing really concrete has emerged from Mr Caridi, I believe that there is a great deal to be done and that we must do what politics has not been able to do in recent years: reform justice. [[Applause from the AL-A, FI-PdL XVII and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u105	Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u106	Mr President, first of all I would like to express my opposition and concern about your decision to reverse the agenda, although you have used an instrument which was in your prerogatives. Then the facts have shown that unfortunately the debate in this House has taken on more populist and judicialistic folds than on the merits of events. Although I am not a lawyer or a lawyer, I have allowed myself, on some occasions, to look at what has been the result of the numerous arrests and numerous preventive prisons arranged by the judiciary; it has then been found in the trials, on the contrary, that over 60% of the people involved have been innocent, even though in some cases they have taken months of preventive imprisonment. This applies not only to the so-called powerful, but also, above all, to the many non-powerful citizens who have unfortunately been unjustly imprisoned by some judiciary. What surprised me in particular, having simply read the twelve pages of the rapporteur's report, is the fact that this is an investigation which has been going on for over sixteen or seventeen years. One member of this Parliament is accused of being one of the leaders of the 'ndrangheta' dome. I wonder, then, but this great need to fight the Mafia because it did not find in the magistrates the necessary speed to prevent such a powerful person from being able to perform his duties, certainly not characterized by legality? And why, after sixteen or seventeen years, do you get to ask for preventive imprisonment? Since so many and so many years have passed, was it not more logical to ask permission to proceed, leaving room for a legitimate trial and giving the prosecution and the defense the opportunity to accuse and defend themselves, in order to get to a basically meditated judgment? 13.21 (Following Zuffada). For these reasons, although I have not read the more than 1,800 pages that have been deposited in recent days, I am in principle opposed to preventive imprisonment, especially if it concerns a democratically elected Member of Parliament in this country who is deprived of freedom. Of course, I am aware that unfortunately we live in a time when many want to become icons of the fight against the mafia and some, in this hypothetical fight against the mafia, have become famous and have increased their political and non-political weight. I believe that this is a bad thing. This morning, I saw a Member of Parliament who was making the gesture of handcuffs, things that had already been seen years ago, in the years 1993-1994, by other political forces who showed up with the noose. I can assure them that it has not been good for them to have rejoiced in the possible misfortunes of others, and if you think that you have easy consent at a time like this, you are wrong because then the behaviors of individuals must be evaluated and meditated. I am concerned that parties that have a history of respect for justice and not of judicialism are joining these political stances. In fact, I think that first of all our duty is to guarantee the possibility of defence on the part of the individual citizen, including a Member of Parliament. I did not see this and I was surprised by the considerable speed imposed on the work of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and the decision of the President to reverse the agenda, because I would not want today's attempt to be aimed at exposing, as a result of Parliament's summer holidays, that famous noose or perhaps the handcuffs that were presented this morning. It is an ingenious form, especially towards the person who is investigated and who has not had the opportunity to defend himself in all these years. 11.25 p.m. (Following Zuffada). I am not a member of the Council of Parliament's immunity but when I hear the members of that Council say that I am not able to have an objective judgment on this matter, I am surprised and concerned. In fact, if the will of this Parliament is to put this or that person to shame because of exquisitely political problems, this is really worrying. For these reasons and for my opposition to the preventive imprisonment following the data that are before everyone's eyes, whatever the decision of my Group, I will not vote in favour of the authorization of the arrest warrant because it is an expression of an uncivilized country and especially because, as Mr Giovanardi has said, those who fill their mouths daily with respect for the Constitution, have not taken into account Article 68 when he says that "Members of Parliament cannot be called to respond to the opinions expressed and the votes given in the performance of their duties," nor can they be arrested or otherwise deprived of personal freedom, or kept in detention, except in execution of an irrevocable sentence, or if they are caught in the act of committing a crime for which compulsory arrest is provided in flagrantness. Well, Mr Caridi's case does not fall into any of the envisaged cases: in fact, he is not in flagrant crime but has been investigated for sixteen years and is not subject to an irrevocable judgment because he has not yet been put to trial. I hope - and I am convinced of this - that he will prove his innocence, but he must do so in a regular process and not in a summary process, as the Commission's rapporteur is calling for today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u107	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot hide the difficulty I have, whenever we address issues like this, in trying to achieve paths of serenity and balance in activity, towards which the Senate is called, which are of great importance for the decisions that must be taken, for the image that we give to the country and for the effects that they produce outside on the subjects that are being examined by us, but also for the credibility of external bodies to which I reserve very high respect; I am referring to the judiciary. However, in the pursuit of this balance, I often see the refusal of the duty and the right to exercise our mandate to the full and, in particular, this mandate with all the responsibility and the capacity for analysis that is required. We are not deciding on any amendment which, to be honest, is also important because it is aimed at the country and the interests of the citizens we represent. We exercise a judicial or parajurisdictional function - define it as you wish - and we either give a endorsement or deny it on the basis of a constitutional principle that calls us to exercise a very high function that, although reduced by the constitutional changes launched in the 1990s, is of great responsibility. We cannot be subject to timing, media pressure, biased objectives and various protagonists. We must exercise this function with the greatest possible intellectual honesty, which we should always have, if this sensitivity could also be mitigated in other matters concerning political debate. I said in my previous speech that I experienced these days with great discomfort, because it was all written before we knew the papers and, even, before the papers arrived at the Senate, when the contents of this judicial affair appeared in the newspapers. There were already those who were pressing to arrive at discounted decisions; there were already those who were preparing to ask the President of the Senate for the acceleration of these times. In any initiative and role which must address sensitive issues, even when advice and opinions are given, reflection is a must. Here we make a final decision regarding the deprivation of the freedom of a colleague and we face it with the utmost superficiality, with defined times, not reading the documents and already having a bias of departure. Colleagues, I am not in, I am not in, I am not in, I am not in, I am not in, I am in, I am not in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am in, I am I can't stand it, neither for a nice guy, nor for a dislike; I can't stand it either for Caridi or for Giarrusso. I would not like us to forget this, because Article 68 applies to all of us; it applies to both of us when it comes to inindacability and also when we are called upon to decide whether to authorize the deprivation of the freedom of Mr Caridi. And let's get to the point, colleagues. As I said before, I am not a jurist; I have a long life experience, but something in these years I have had to learn it. The first is that we don't have a balanced system in our system. We have, yes, a third judge, we have, yes, a defense attorney, but we have a prosecutor of the prosecution who is a member of the judicial order. And among the obligations of this magistrate of the prosecution, of the prosecutor, there is not only that of seeking the elements in support of his accusation, but also that of seeking the elements in discharge of the accused. I say this because some will tell me: but in this affair there is no fumus. Well, colleagues, I also see the "arrostus," not just the fumus. And the "arrostus" is that the prosecutor, although he is obliged to seek the evidence in discharge, in the acts that he has produced has omitted the evidence in discharge; he has failed to criticize the testimonies of the collaborator or the registrant; he has failed to carry out his role as magistrate to the full: not as prosecutor of the prosecution, but as magistrate of the prosecution, which in our system is completely different. If we were in the U.S. or British law, the prosecution's attorney pulled out the evidence in support of the prosecution, the defense attorney pulled out the evidence in support of the defense, and the judge, who is not a colleague of the prosecutor or prosecutor's attorney, judges. That is not the case in Italy, and that is not the case for us, or indeed for your responsibilities, colleagues, because I have supported the separation of careers between prosecution and judicial judges. But this magistrate had the obligation to point out, as he had the obligation to do by President Stephen (he did only with particular limited arguments and under the pressure of many colleagues of the Junta), to mention the contradictory elements that were present in the documentation in favour of the precautionary order. And he had to make available these elements the defense of Mr Caridi, with difficulty, with delay, because the time allowed for the defense of the colleague was from the beginning small, unacceptable in a procedure of this importance. The clues behind this whole affair: the support of the mob organization at the electoral level of his colleague. The documents that have been made available to us by the colleague, not denied by the rapporteur, do not deny it except through contradictory and often false phrases of the prosecutor, who affirms issues that then at the level of electoral data are denied (electoral data are deposited at the electoral offices of the municipalities and of the Region), show that this support to the colleague by the 'ndrangheta or the mobs has not been there. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I do not even want to question this element; these elements must be in the process. What I context is the precautionary measure of deprivation of my colleague's freedom. It is said that the Caridi were asked for amendments and that he was the intermediary. But was Mr Caridi the only one who was supposed to ask for speeches in this House and for amendments? I, who am a guarantor, do not mention the names of others because, compared to simple claims of mobsters, that could be asked of this or that one, I trust more than I read and see. Is that enough to ask for the arrest of my colleague? Is this enough to demand the arrest of my colleague when he admits that he has promoted and supported the recruitment of four or five fixed-term workers? Colleagues, I was elected in Piedmont, but for reasons of party responsibility I attend very much the South as well as having origins in those territories. I'm talking about Sicily and not Calabria. I tell you the truth: every time I go to Sicily - a few times, for the truth - I find it difficult to distinguish black from white. Often everything is grey. Even when I go to Calabria I guarantee that - although I do not belong to any mob organization or other, but to a simple party and rather small, to the truth - I return to the Senate with my pockets full of requests for recruitment, interventions at the Ministry of Economy and Finance or other, and of transfers that I regularly put in the drawer. My office is open and, who wants, can verify that in my drawers there are plichi of these recommendations, which of course I do not follow. However, they are evidence of how, in certain territories, unfortunately, politics is subjected to continuous pressure of clientele type. So, just for these facts, we have to pass on the idea that anyone who makes a recommendation is a member of a mob criminal organization, 'ndrangheta or other kind? These elements, referred to in the documents of the request for arrest, must be proven. It is simply a series of accusations that do not, however, make a Member of Parliament a criminal against whom such a measure must be justified. Colleagues, we have an obligation: our obligation is to establish, once again, the full autonomy of political and parliamentary institutions from those other institutions, which all play a legitimate and fundamental role. I am referring to the judiciary. There are Article 68 of the Constitution, the Assembly of Elections and Immunities, the decision that this House must take on the question of the deprivation of the freedom of a colleague. We must fully exercise our power of criticism and evaluation in relation to the acts before us by the judiciary. The judiciary could have arrested his colleague, but it cannot do so because it must go through our criticism and evaluation. The first duty we have is to express ourselves with serenity, without prejudices and schemes of majority and opposition and without the concern of external or past pressures for this or the other favorers, with respect to a matter of great gravity that means undermining the plenum of this House. Some colleagues have mentioned other political and parliamentary events that have called into question the country's line, majorities and political perspectives. There are not only those, colleagues; there have been many others in the history of this country, but also of other countries, which must make us reflect on the fact that our first task is to express, with serenity, conviction and penetration of knowledge, a decision that belongs only to us and to no one else. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u109	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u110	Mr President, I would like to stress something that we have all heard in this House and which is addressed to President Grasso. Today's debate has made it clear that President Grasso and the Senate Assembly are completely off the hook, for which he should be the guarantor. This has emerged from President Zanda's words. I am truly astonished at what is happening in this paradoxical situation. I don't know if Senator Caridi can be guilty or innocent and it's not up to us to decide that. We must only express ourselves on the deprivation of his personal freedom, while we know that it will be a political sentence. Let's think of the thousand cases of innocent people arrested for the statements of justice collaborators then judged false. Let us think, for example, of the innocent Tortora case, brought to death by superficial judges. It seems to me that, in this case, there is so much superficiality in the request for arrest: investigated since 2002, without evidence in 15 years, without evidence, but by hearsay. The only more or less "reliable" witness reports of meetings in an already large period of time - the years 2006 and 2007 - while Senator Caridi's interlocutor was in prison since 2005. I wonder, after today's vote, how many of us will have the courage to look at ourselves in the mirror and look at our children in the face because depriving a man of his personal freedom, for political reasons, to do small Robespierre is truly shameful and the Presidency's haste to come to judgment today, a week before the Court's decision for review, which could perhaps also be influenced by a political decision of the Senate. If today the vote is not according to the conscience of every senator, as I hope with all my heart, a judgment of the Court for the review that does not deprive Senator Caridi of his freedom will certainly be a further offense to this House and a slap on the face of those who want to get to all this so quickly. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u111	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u112	Mr President, this morning we listened to a lot of arguments and, while there were some doubts and concerns about the conclusion of both the Junta report and the whole process of this affair, the arguments against them were missing (almost due to some sort of shame or caution). Many people have displeased me about the inconsistencies between the facts told, thoughts, outcomes, conclusions, the decision of a protective custody to which - I say it now - I am absolutely not in favour, because I think this procedure has no reason to be. It has no reason to be because the facts are more than 15 years old. He has no reason to be because I don't see the danger of escape. He has no reason to be, because if he had to pollute the evidence, he had plenty of time to do it in 15 years. He has no reason to be because I find it difficult for the crime to be repeated. What crime then? It's still not understood, because there is no objectivity about anything. The only reference is based on the aiding of recruitment for some places - five or six - as a street or similar, for a fixed time, in a land that lacks work and puts at risk, at times, even the possibility of supporting one's family; therefore, if so, it would almost not be a work of evil, but a work of good almost due. I see no reason to proceed in this way and in this hurry, all the more so before the summer and the closure of the Senate, when at least until 11 September we have no opportunity to make amendments or intervene as senators or to intervene in these terms. Therefore, if I am accused or accused of someone, with a heavy accusation, and I do not make arguments, because I say that it is my own feeling, my own argument and my opinion, it is legitimate that I also be questioned and that therefore I take responsibility for what I say and do. In this case we have a person who expresses not herself, because anti-mafia is not a personal path. One represents the institutions that fight the Mafia and it is legitimate to protect them and to ensure that they work with third-partyness and objectivity. But it is equally legitimate to fight the rhetoric of the anti-mafia, those professionals of the anti-mafia, that to hear the song of the sirens and the applause of the crowd, which sometimes needs a arena, to satisfy a certain personal vanagloria, perhaps for career, or even for weakness and not for malice, or perhaps to make the fight against the mafia an ideology that can mislead the objectivity of facts and things. In 1987, Leonardo Sciascia wrote on Corriere della Sera an article that was very controversial, and that is also today, entitled "The professionals of anti-mafia." That's what Sciascia wrote: It is curious that in the present awareness, certainly preferable, even if flooded with rhetoric, to the effettual indifference of earlier, elements of a confused racial resentment towards Sicily and Sicilians converge. He talks about the Sicilians, but also about Calabria there is always that prejudice: in Sicily all mafias, in Calabria as well. I go to Calabria, said Senator Buemi himself, and I find it hard to distinguish white from black and I see everything grey. In my opinion, we should also dedicate ourselves to this, which is an ideological prejudice. In another interview, Sciascia always said that anti-mafia must be taken into account as an instrument of power, which could very well happen, even in a democratic system, rhetoric helping and critical spirit lacking. In the name of anti-mafia a kind of terrorism is exercised, because those who disagree with certain ways are immediately accused of being a mobster or a sympathizer. A bit like sometimes when it comes to the events of racism, when certain facts are exploited because, in the same way, there it seems very bad to touch certain themes and to put oneself in uncomfortable situations even if, objectively, the evolution of the facts has followed quite another logic. This morning, when I saw my colleague, Senator Fattori, who, at a time of high drama in the Chamber, was having fun, smiling, picking up with the telephone the intervention of my colleague Senator Caridi, I felt an insensitivity, a disrespect, a being so uninstitutional, a being so rhetorical that it was ashamed and to be condemned from an ethical point of view. We're talking about helping someone get a fixed-term job. And then I think, if this is being a mafia, there's a lot more in here in this Mafia Senate. If we consider mafia the attitude of helping acquaintances, we find it here too, because, for example, in the Group from which I came how many were the hirings of friends, boyfriends, relatives, friends of friends, faithful and faithful? I was even told that some resumes, even prestigious ones, arrived in Rome recently, which were rejected because, for example, a press officer had worked in the Democratic Party and this was not good. That's what I'm talking about. I apologize for the term, and I don't want to offend anyone. When we deal with these issues, with these prejudices and such rigid patterns, that oblige us to follow the leadership of the party or group and not to face what our conscience and logic says, I see it as a worrying thing, like an attack on democracy, institutions and the right of this country. If we were to respond every time to the Group's statement, other than the elimination of those 200 senators provided for in the constitutional reform! A Holding Company would suffice for each Group: that is, the President of the Senate and a sort of Group Leader would suffice for each Group. It would cost much less, it would all be much faster with the Parent Company that summarizes the instances of those who listened earlier. We speak of Calabria, a difficult region, with so many problems, where the 'ndrangheta exists, but where there are also more clashes between them, because not all the mobs get along and face together against the anti-mafia and against those who fight them. I therefore have a legitimate doubt. Recently I have heard from some of my friends that someone from the Public Prosecutor's Office of Reggio Calabria asked for the transfer, because there is still a pressure to want lynching every time, because it does not make it pass by mobsters. It's like when Senator Fattori, once she recovered this morning, turned to the Democratic Party Group accusing them of being mobsters. This is because it protects a right of a senator of the Republic: in fact, that he is a senator of the Republic is certain, but that he is guilty will be seen at the trial. I shall conclude, Mr President, but I would like to ask you to think about the fact that we are not in a blog here, the sentences are not slogans, the freedom of a person is not worth the amount of clicks or likes on Facebook or on the web. At this moment we are talking about the freedom and rights of a person who can be innocent and a family who can be behind us. Therefore my conscience says that in doubt I will always prefer an innocent outside rather than in prison. [[Senator Floris' applause.]] I mean it is that nobody here denies the trial, nobody denies the facts. Many more tools will be given, including correction for errors. The GIP has also changed the premises of the prosecutor; so in the course of the trial things can change again and evolve in this sense. The freedom of a person has no price and our duty, according to our conscience, is to protect this aspect above all; so I reflect in this sense and invite everyone else to do so. To Senator Caridi I wish to go out with my head high and become an example of the fact that sometimes a little more reflection and less superficiality can help certain sentences that must not be based on ANSA. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Sacconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u113	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u114	Mr President, although there are few of us (I hope that other senators will follow us on television), I believe that each of us should have some attention because we are not deciding something that is outside our remit. We are called upon to assess whether the conditions are met in order to give an assent to the request and the order for enforcement of the protective custody. I'm sorry someone could say it was the judge who took the exam. I'd really like some of you to read the protective custody order because what I'm gonna say is facts that come up in the protective custody order and the wiretapping. There is no staff (and I must say that Senator Casson in the Commission has also shared this), there is not even a reference to the criteria laid down since 1992 by the Court of Cassation for the assessment of the statements of the repentants. Look, the repentant are not witnesses, they are all sentenced to years of detention as belonging to the 'ndrangheta' organization, so everyone can enjoy the benefits associated with repentance. What is the task of this House? Let's consider some aspects; the first aspect: could the judge give house arrests? No. If circumstantial assumptions are used, the only preventive measure allowed is prison, according to the 2005 reform, because there is an alleged social danger. Can the Gip instead not apply a precautionary measure, if the elements are missing? Of course we do, and if we do not lack the elements, we have this power. Let's go by order: can we evaluate the reliability of the texts? We can only evaluate it from the point of view of the existence of the established clue, as that procedure of evaluation of the witness was to be done by the judge. You've missed it. Patience. He'll assess the review court of the cassation. We must, then, consider whether the facts that have been given for peace are there. Let's look at the first question. Caridi would have been elected, since the first election, thanks to the support of the 'ndrangheta. Please read: it is not so, it is false. In 1997 he ran for the first time for the City Council, was elected with the highest vote and became the first of the elected (the father was previously the first of the elected of Christian Democracy, while the second was Porcino, the uncle, all doctors). But I don't say it: there's the interception between operators of 'ndrangheta. One question, in 2002: "Who is Caridi?" And the other one says, It is the one who alone was elected as the first elected to Reggio Calabria. In the report you read, on page 10, that it is not a defensive argument that he was not elected in 2002 and 2005 because the votes of the Mafia may not have been sufficient. It is false because there is evidence, within the precautionary measure, that in those two elections the 'ndrangheta did not carry Caridi; instead, it brought Crea, who is elected as first. This is reality and you cannot deny it. So the first election had nothing to do with it, and in the two elections in which he was not elected, we have the mathematical certainty that the 'ndrangheta' was carrying another one. Let's go see, then, other aspects: Skin is a character of the 'ndrangheta, to which another subject says: Caridi is one of yours. And Pelle answers: no, it's not ours; on the contrary you don't have to contact him, none of us must talk to us; let's see what he does if he goes to talk to an entrepreneur. And the Gip gives the evaluation of "no" as a "no" of irony; Read it. Let's move on to Moio: I want to read this passage to my colleague Finocchiaro. The prosecutor says: "I have reread the minutes; but I would like to understand how we get the fact that Nino Caridi is very close to De Stefano? I mean, was it reported to him by De Stefano? Was it said within your family? Have they ever asked for support?" And Moio answers: "Yes, yes; no, we spoke in our family." "She" - the prosecutor asks - "does she say that because she knows of favors done by Caridi to De Stefano?" "I don't know what you're doing, but it was there." Then they say: "Did you have the support of Chirico?" Chirico is a municipal manager of Reggio Calabria and is only brother-in-law of De Stefano and at the time supported him. When Moio was questioned in 2010 he didn't even know that he broke any relationship since 2004 with Caridi. And why did you break up with Caridi in 2004? Chirico, who had supported him as a personal friend (the Gip says not Caliendo). What does it say? When in 2004 Caridi claims to be nominated and to have a promotion, Caridi does not commit. Then it breaks the friendship. Reading these papers I began to wonder: I don't know if Caridi is innocent or guilty (this is not the speech we have to make), but what is Caridi's interest? Have the votes? We have seen that there is no such interest. And what's the Mafia's interest? Chirico's promotion? He didn't have it. But how is it that, from 1997 to today, there is no end crime of the association that is taken into consideration for the purposes of an indictment, of a registration in the register of suspects? You all know better than I do that since 1960 the violation of the electoral report has already been a crime. And why has he never been enrolled? That clue probably wasn't evidence. You are faced with a Kafki situation: the same rapporteur not only tells me incorrect things but also, in the last question of yesterday, when we get the news that Aiello said the false and that there was a report for which in 2007 they had had a meeting, the rapporteur writes: that "it emerges a certain difficulty of declaring to remember precisely the dates of the episodes found", in order to try to shift the attention from 2006 to 2007. But go reread the acts! Senator Cucca, read or report to his colleagues, since they cannot read the acts, that in the order of custody it is clearly written that it was the elections of 2007. It wouldn't have made any sense, in another historical period, for the electoral meeting. And the 2007 meeting takes place when the Caponera is in jail; so it's not true. There is no evaluation of the repentant. Speaking of the public prosecutor, I know very well the skill of Cafiero de Raho as Prosecutor of the Republic as I know well the skill of Pignatone. All the acts refer to the period in which Pignatone was Prosecutor of the Republic and also Cafiero de Raho, who is good. But I wonder if you have given a reading, a rereading of the system that has identified a dome. I find it correct, but go and read the pages: they concern all the other components, on Caridi there are two lines. What is the incongruity? The incongruity is that Caridi, according to the prosecution, is responsible 416-a, 1, 2, 3 and more. Does that mean that he is a promoter and organizer but doesn't decide anything and doesn't organize anything and what he gives, in return, in about 20 years? The recruitment of six people like garbage collectors or ecological workers, as they are called today. And would the Mafia make available its power of electoral conditioning to obtain, in 20 years, the recruitment of six ecological operators? You can do whatever you want. The doubt remains to me and in doubt, in my life, I have always worried, whether it was a day in prison or a life sentence. You can't help it. Otherwise it means that any act of the judiciary has its own value and that it is not possible to discuss it. So we're just gonna be some paperweights that just put the stamp on. Having an incongruity so strong as to organize that it does not organize anything merely as a material performer, as the Gip said, makes the situation unbelievable. [[Applause from Senator Caridi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u115	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u116	Mr President, I would like to reassure Senator Caliendo. When making decisions of this kind, they are not taken lightly. They are decisions that, of course, affect us all internally and pose problems for us to assess the facts and the content of the acts. In any case, we must be aware of the role and functions that we are called upon to play in that role. So, albeit with much pain, we must also have the courage to face these moments that can be part of the life of a parliamentarians because the role also stems from the need to face such difficult moments. We must therefore respect the role we are called upon to play. This role, in these situations, must take into account what we are: we are not judges, we are not the review court, we are not called to give any assessment of the merits of the events that are brought to our attention and this was also said by Senator Caliendo just now. We only have to consider whether the so-called fumus persecutionis exists in the conduct of the judge. We are called upon to assess whether in carrying out his work the judge has acted with respect for the rules and with respect for the law. In fact, even from the evaluation of the judge's behavior could emerge the existence of fumus persecutionis. That is what we have done in the assessment of this matter in the Junta. We are also called upon to do so today with the evaluation in this House, which is the body to which the last word is due in this matter. Well in the assessment objectively and personally I have not found any fumus persecutionis and, on the other hand, there are a number of arguments that comfort us in this opinion, not least the fact that there are a number of co-indicates that are found today - there has still been no ruling by the review court - in prison because they are reached by the same order of custody for which authorization was then requested. There is a multitude of people - I believe 19 - who are confined to protective custody as accused of the same facts for which Senator Caridi is also proceeding. It has been said that fumus persecutionis can be deduced from reading the acts brought to the attention of the Junta. I was one of the ones who joined the request yesterday. Faced with a new fact of this kind, I believe it is humanly understandable and correct that these issues should be explored, but, to be clear, they do not show what has been said, even in a very suggestive way, in this House. It's not like that. In those acts it is not precisely indicated the date on which that encounter would occur and is given, indeed, a temporal scissors even large enough. But, above all, what should escape any doubt are the concrete and precise words that are said. It is said that the Caponera were present in that affair and not Paolo, Franco, Giuseppe or Peppino. There is simply talk of the Caponera, without indication of the person who should have been in prison; there is no precise indication and it is not even identified. Apart from this, we must not forget that the protective custody order is based on a multiplicity of arguments put forward by the co-lawyers. There are many facts that are set out in the protective custody order. The Members who spoke before me did well to point out that the order is particularly full-bodied and that the matter is particularly complex. We are all aware of this, but we do not have the power to judge on the merits. It is a task for others. We merely verify that the magistrate's activity has been corrected, thus excluding the so-called fumus persecutionis. And objectively, it does not seem to me that this can be recounted in the behavior of the judge. Another issue raised today is the violation of the integrity of this House. It is an evocative argument, but it is a duty to compare the interests at stake: on the one hand there is the right to the integrity of the Assembly and of the representatives of the people and, on the other, there is the right to the proper administration of justice. It is precisely for the separation of powers that we do not have the possibility of interfering in the activity of one of the three powers of the State. We have only the duty - I repeat because it is the cornerstone of this affair - to verify that the activity of the judicial authority is carried out in a legitimate way, without external interference. We do not have the right to interfere in that activity. Once the fumus persecutionis does not exist, we do not have the opportunity to discuss the merits and to give assessments. That is up to other parties, the magistrate, the review court and the cassation, if necessary. Then it will be up to the judging bodies to consider this matter. We are talking here only about the justification of the request for the non-existence of fumus persecutionis, and this is the only task that belongs to us. All the rest are objectively free words which, however, are not appropriate and consonant with the content of the acts which we have been able to examine. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bencini and Molinari]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u117	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u118	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u119	Mr President, I am speaking only for a few clarifications which have been requested in the speeches. I have a duty to report to the Assembly first of all a clarification on the work of the Junta, which was invested on 27 July 2016 in this matter and examined the question during the sessions of 27 July, 2 August at the afternoon, afternoon and night sessions, and 3 August, and listened to Senator Caridi, pursuant to Rule 135, at the afternoon sitting on 2 August. I would also like to draw the House's attention to the fact that the Junta's timetable on this issue has not been decided discreetly by myself, but it has been voted by the Junta, on a proposal from some members who are not part of the majority, as I myself am not a party to it. In the same way, I propose to the Assembly an element of further study on the subject that Senator Caliendo also reports here today with respect to the explanations of vote in Junta. The explanations of vote in the Junta are governed by the Rules of Procedure of the Senate: Article 109, paragraph 2, prescribes that even for the Junta in the explanations of vote one Senator can be expressed for each Group, and on the other hand the Junta is conformed to the consistency of the individual Groups. I would also like to point out that in my report to the House, which, as I said before, is about 10 pages and not 107 pages, in accordance with the commitments I made in Junta, I have taken into account the documentation submitted on 3 August morning by Senator Caridi, the correctness of the conclusion about the detention of a person he would have met. However, I have reread all the minutes of the statements - and I also point out the contents of my report - by Mr Aiello, who was often in difficulty remembering the dates. The whole report clearly shows this difficulty, as I wrote in the report, but also the reference that Mr Cucca made a few moments ago to the indication of that specific meeting. Finally, I close by saying that, despite yesterday morning's documentation, my report has remained composed of the same indication that it was then voted on to the Junta, because Aiello was one of the six witnesses of justice on which the investigation develops and therefore, while wanting access to the defensive thesis, I imagine that the elements on which the serious clues are based do not cease, for which, according to Article 275 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, we are asked for custody in prison. (Applause from the right) It was necessary that at least I respond to these reports which I believe have been given in a way that does not exactly correspond to what is written in the acts. [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u120	I communicate that a request for a secret ballot has been received, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, together with the signatures of the prescribed number of senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u123	Mr Barani (AL-A). After what President Stefano said, according to which an explanation of vote was made for each Group in Junta, I would like to know for the AL-A Group who spoke. You said that all the groups were given the opportunity to speak in the committee for the permissions to proceed, and so I would like to know who in my group made the explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, it's obvious that you were referring to all Groups that are members of the Junta and since you are not part of it... Mr Barani (AL-A). Congratulations, ma'am. This is his democracy! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's a fact and you know it very well. Mr Barani (AL-A). If this is your democracy... It is not a democracy problem, but a fact. Senator Barani, this is about the application of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Barani (AL-A). In the last term of office, president. The last parliamentary term is the last parliamentary term. Mr Barani (AL-A). In the last parliamentary term there is the precedent of a replacement of a member of the Junta to allow all groups to join. Go and see and you will realize that democracy was there in the last parliamentary term, not in this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u124	Okay. We take note of that. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal of the European Parliamentary Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u127	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Senator Cucca, ours were not words in freedom, but words for freedom. This morning I was talking to Senator Corradino Mineo, who at another time has developed the same aversion that you consider right to interpret in the country for this domestic jurisdiction to which we are called. We are the only Western country that decides at home on the freedom of members of the parliamentary assembly. Think that Romania, when asked to join the European Union, was asked to cancel the institution of domestic jurisdiction. No civilized country does what we do, but unfortunately, we do. We are called to do so and we must do so in conscience and freedom. I say this and I say it because the reasoning we make about fumus persecutionis, which should be such or - better - exist when there are grave error, falsehood etc., is a false problem. In fact, in the great mistakes that Italian politics made in Parliament, fumus persecutionis for domestic jurisdiction is our invention. Until 1992, the Juntas decided on gravity, but how could they say that they refused the protective custody of a Member of Parliament, not considering corruption to be serious? They couldn't do that and, then, we were invented to write in the report that rejected the opinion in favour of custody, because there was fumus persecutionis. By doing so, in a repeated way, we have built the jurisprudence of fumus persecutionis, which does not exist and has no meaning to exist, because the first of the objectives of domestic jurisdiction, which we are the only ones to have, is that of an internal defense to the plenum. But why do we keep doing this? We continue to do this because in this unbalanced system of Italian politics and justice, the truth is that, at the same time as the great work of the judiciary, which has managed to resolve over time the problem of terrorism and that of the mafia and organized crime, we also have other cases. Since we are allowed to speak freely here, because we are in Parliament, we can say that we have the cases of De Magistris and Woodcock. All those investigated by them have been acquitted, yet a government has fallen. So, who doesn't tell us and who doesn't tell you - seeing that this judicial action is in stark contrast to the judgment that the judiciary itself, in the same place, had given only a few months before - that there is no action that has a strong political connection? Those who speak to you were among those who in 1992 applauded clean Hands and therefore I understand why you come to this decision, but at the same time I would ask you to continue to meditate on it. We must admit our faults. I am part of the very narrow group of Italian entrepreneurs who, in 1992-1993, called Di Pietro a Santa Margherita to give us lessons of law and we went proud. They are among those, in 1993, who bought the pages of the newspapers, to ask for the replacement of Giammanco: they are among the 40 entrepreneurs who did this. On August 6, 1992, I was received by the President of the Council, along with another entrepreneur, to ask for the presence of the Government in Sicily, after the Fats murder. I was that entrepreneur who gave his speech in the plenary assembly of Confindustria on the murder Grassi, which gave rise to the famous assembly of entrepreneurs in Sicily. I know the mob and I hate the mob! From 1974 to 1983 I had to walk armed, because I had been the subject of an indication of kidnapping, or rather my father was, and I was allowed to have the port of arms before I was even older. I know what the action of the Mafia means, which is a bad, persecutory and bloody action. I saw who was killed by the mob. I saw not Grassi, but engineer Patti - Mr President, he will remember - killed at the entrance of the Istituto Ancelle, in front of his daughters, because he refused to pay the lace. I hate the mob, but I understand that this has little to do with the mob and that in the mob there is another objective and another reality that is that of the "sedicence." I'm talking about the "sedicenza" because we discovered, after so long, that the great old man of the Italian mafia would be Ciancimino. He was never a congressman. Was he conditioning political life? You had people elected? I think that if a mobster conditions politics, the first thing he makes is to think of fulfilling his ambition to condition it from within. Ciancimino was never elected, because the mob, if it has the votes, not the few, and if it has them, does not give them in the way that is narrated in the 3,800 pages that have been provided and works with so much, so much sodice. Then there is a big difference between Mafia and 'ndrangheta. The mob may not even get you votes in the place where the boss is and get you votes elsewhere, but that's not how it is in Calabria. If Pelle was the boss of Bovalino and Bovalino Caridi does not take votes, that means that Caridi with Pelle had no relationship. Those who do the judiciary in Calabria know this concept well and therefore there is no error, there is no falsehood, but there is preconception, there is use of judicial prerogatives to achieve other ends and other purposes and there is malversation of the judicial power. The use of complex systems in order not to render justice and to unbalance the system even more, where our faults are added and the faults of the magistrates are opposed. Because we have our faults. We are in politics from some lustre and we have not changed the relationship between politics and the judiciary. We have made this country more guarantor than it should be and can be a civilised country, as opposed to an exorbitant power of the judiciary and politics, doing neither good to justice nor good to the country nor good to democracy. What does this have to do with Caridi? Unfortunately, we are called upon to decide, not according to what we hope and what we would like, but what it is. We are called to decide on a forced action in our opinion towards politics and to defend, with Caridi, our prerogatives, our freedom and, through this, unfortunately, the freedom of the country (I say, unfortunately for the country of which we are probably not worthy). That is why, Mr President, I shall vote against Senator Stefano's report. [[Applause from Senators Bernini, Comrade, Formigoni and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u130	AUGELLO (CoR). Mr President, unfortunately, in this explanation of vote I will have to repeat what I said in the explanation of vote given in Junta. The fundamental question that we raised, both in the Junta and in this House, has not only been eluded, but has also been refuted by denying the evidence of the cards. I repeat this for the last time, and I hope that colleagues will pay attention to me. It is not my opinion, Senator Cucca and rapporteur Stefano, that Mr Paolo Caponera, and not Mr Rosario Caponera, was at that meeting. It is written on page 11 of Mr. Aiello's questioning of 30 October 2014. It is written, and we cannot say: the Caponera, half Caponera, two Caponera and a half. Mr. Paolo Caponera was there, says the Witness Aiello on page 11 of the interrogation. This questioning is on the record of the Council but, unfortunately, I cannot distribute it, Mr President, because you know that the acts are secreted. But it is in Junta, and we cannot deny the evidence of what is transmitted to us by a proxy, in this case to say the least fearful. The fact that, rapporteur Stefano, there is an inaccuracy in defining the date of that meeting, always by this Mr Aiello, is nevertheless enclosed in a temporal indication that is also logical. Aiello says that the meeting took place, however, either in 2006 or 2007. And for what reason? Because they're making an agreement, even of an electoral nature. Now, colleagues in the Senate, each of us has taken, obviously not with criminals, but with party colleagues, electoral agreements. Is there anyone in this House who makes electoral agreements four years before the elections? Seriously we want to tell ourselves that we have this doubt, in front of the cards available to us in Junta and that we can all read? In this case it is evident that the fumus is there. We could have deepened this but, Mr President, unfortunately you did not give us the time, as President Stefano did not give us the time. It is implausible, completely, that the prosecutor who sent us these papers could be unaware of the time when he was in detention one of the main criminals at the center of this investigation. Mr President, from the very top of your experience, I would like to give you this example. Do you think Dr. Pignatone in Rome could have built the accusatory facility of Mafia capital if the meetings rebuked by the politicians, the cooperatives of Buzzi and Carminati had all historically taken place during the period when Carminati was in prison? If you had been the prosecutor of the Republic of Rome and a deputy of yours had brought you such information, you, despite the normally mild and compassionate air you always had, would have yielded to a moment of impatience. Or so I suppose. From this point of view, the question that we must examine is not to give in to the prejudice of the bad faith of the proxy or to the prejudice of inaccuracy or lack of ability to connect the documents of the proxy with each other. We must recognize that there is a fumus, because we are talking about a totally unreliable witness and a news that has not been communicated to us by the prosecutor. The prosecutor has communicated to us a whole series of interceptions, reports, etc. and has not communicated to us an essential news: that when that fact took place, where the electoral pact (the electoral criminal pact) was sealed, unfortunately the main criminal was not there. From this point of view, seriously asserting that this is a question that we put in a corner and proceed because there are so many others (of course there are only others), but in the light of this, the others should also be the subject of a more careful check, but it is not our task. On the other hand, it is our duty to say that there is fumus, because the prosecutor has not sent us sufficiently documented documents to allow us to judge the request that was submitted to us. This is the job the Junta should have done. However, because we have not been allowed to do this in depth, because we have been forced to get angry in this House to quote the pages of the acts that have been transmitted to us, because in Junta, with the acts in hand, we have not had the opportunity to have this debate, we are not in a position to endorse this procedure. I personally refuse to endorse procedures of this kind to put a person in jail. That's not a possible attitude. So I will personally repeat what I have already done in the Junta, that is, I will abstain in protest, I will vote abstention in protest, because I have not been able to do my job in the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity. With regard to the Group as a whole, I believe with great balance (because on these things I believe that all the Groups should behave like this), our Parent gave us the mandate and the possibility to vote according to conscience. I would like this to happen throughout the Senate Assembly, in all the Groups, possibly using those nervations of consciousness that do not stop at the forearm, but arrive up to the fingertip when you have to press the button to decide what to do and to what destiny to entrust a Member of Parliament of the Republic [[Applause from the CoR, FI-PdL XVII and LAG (GS, PpI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u133	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, Senators, Colleagues and Colleagues, Senator Cucca, I agree with what you have just said and also what Senator Casson said privately to me about the fact that our role, our function in this House this morning, has limits, the limits of simply checking whether there is a fumus persecutionis. However, Senator Cucca, Senator Casson, I also believe that to carry out this evaluation properly it is essential to verify the merits of the request and the facts that are indicated by the prosecutor and therefore by the gip to comfort the request for precautionary measure. In this regard, I remind you that in 2015, with Law No. 47, in Article 3 we amended the third paragraph of Article No. 275 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which with the amendment maintains the absolute presumption of adequacy of the protective custody, subject of course to the stated non-susistence of precautionary requirements, only with reference to the crime of association of mafia type (Article 416-bis), subversive association (Article 270 of the Criminal Code) and association with the purposes of terrorism or of exversion of the democratic order. Again, however, while the obligation to demonstrate the non-susistence of the measure lies with the suspect, the new principles have an important relapse. In the specific case, in fact, considering that the meetings that have taken place have happened very far in time and that the Cassation, with some last pronunciations, has considered the requirements for conduct ascribed to five years before the request of the measure, we can consider absolutely non-sussistent that danger of topicality and concreteness of the measure that could justify the deprivation of freedom. This double interpretive track, moreover, is, in my opinion, a legislative vulnus to which we should remedy as soon as possible, because it also presents features of unconstitutionality. For decades, Italy has tended to change rules to restrict the scope of the prison measure, but so far every attempt has been unsuccessful. Motivations built with molds in the judicial offices end up deflating any attempt to consider the deprivation of freedom in the investigation phase (so when the suspect is presumed innocent) an extrema ratio. The problem is, therefore, first of all cultural and if we do not make a qualitative leap in giving even firm answers to collaborate in the establishment of a new mentality we will hardly be able to overcome that obscurantist phase that still sees innocents locked up in a prison to satisfy the desire for protagonism of some magistrate or that sick enjoyment of that part of public opinion that rejoices, as I said just now, in imagining presumed powerful ending in a dark cell. The future is chosen and built in the present and we today, with our decision, can contribute, without any hesitation, to a future marked by those great principles of freedom, which first of all guarantee the dignity of the person and, above all, that definitively avert the early atonement of the sentence. Allow me, colleagues, to read you two lines of a script of which I will then tell you (maybe you will also understand) who is the author: I'm caressing the idea of asking for a change of citizenship. This country is no longer my country. (...) Beat me so that these procedural incivilizations, these processes that honor, paradoxically, fascism, may come to an end. For a man to be respected, heard, before being handcuffed like an animal (...) on a delegation of crazy criminals. I wonder why they say "fresh." I die of heat in a cell. (...) He rides out of every cell in Italy a criminal, who, in order to earn a discount, accuses me of all madness. (...) I have turned away and I am terrified to see how my experience has transformed me. (...) "Look at the sea for me, kiss me a flower" It was Enzo Tortora, a dear friend of mine, who wrote to his wife. [[Applause from the AL-A, FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] Keep these battles in mind. Those men, who determined that unjust detention, unlike magistrates like our President, who has always performed his function with impeccable correctness, those men, far from being penalized for their mistakes, have become members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and become chief prosecutors. [[Applause from the AL-A, FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]] Gentlemen, look out for what you're gonna do here at a few moments. Keep in mind those words that came from the heart of a man who was in a cell and then made sure that he was innocent. Because tomorrow, if our Senator, Mr Caridi, is innocent, you will have to feel responsible for the immense damage you do and you will bring to him, his family, his children, his parents, alive or dead, his grandparents and a whole generation. [[Applause from the AL-A groups and the Davico senators.]] These sufferings will have to be felt on your skin and if you do not feel them - alas - you are comparable to insensitive animals, because many animals too are sensitive. [[Applause from AL-A groups and Senators Compañera, Giovanardi and Rizzotti]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u136	MOLINARI (Misto-Idv). Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, today we are called to live an important and difficult page in the history of the Senate that we can easily overcome if we do not forget that Parliament is not only the place where the sovereignty of the Italian people is exercised through the legislative process, but above all the place where its will is manifested on issues decisive for the very nature of democracy. We immediately displace the field by reaffirming a fundamental principle of the state of modern law - what Montesquieu called the division of powers and which was last reaffirmed, in the course of the debate, by Senator Cucca. We, as Senate, with our decision today must not invade the field of the judiciary but, at the same time, we must avoid both the foga of justiceist "infamous column" and that which, in order to defend the privileges, betrays the noble intention of guaranteeing that is the other fundamental principle of the state of modern law, and limit ourselves to responding to what is required by Article 68 paragraph 2 of the Constitution. We are called, that is - and well it has remembered the Senator Stephen - once excluded that behind the request of the court the instrumentalization of his power is hidden in order to compress the freedom of the parliamentarians, to assess if the requested intervention does not translate into an arbitrary compression of the right-duty of a component of this assembly to freely carry out its function as representative of the popular sovereignty. First, however, the very serious and numerous disputes, which at this stage can only be circumstantial, brought to Senator Caridi, oblige all of us to ask ourselves questions about the meaning and the very concept of honour with which the parliamentary mandate is fulfilled. Few concepts are evanescent as that of honor, also because it lends itself to deformations. His etymology recalls us to the Roman cursus honorum, that is, the path all based on personal ability and esteem that the candidate was able to collect and serve the state, of office, and that represented the whole of sacrifice, respectability and dedication to the Republic; therefore, something deserved, earned by a path of responsibility at a time intimate and public. But there is also another declination of the concept of honor that is closely linked to a legie belonging to a rule of oppression, as happens for the so-called mafia honor, which is used as a bond to a shady reliability to bind the participants to the association, to fortify it and make it waterproof to the law. To read the 107 pages on which the request for authorization is based, which I have read, certainly there is no fumus persecutionis but, on the contrary, a list of crimes already passed to the scrutiny of a judge, that of preliminary investigations that, precisely, recall directly to political activity; and the disputes are numerous, punctual and very serious. We are in front of some boulders, who tell not only of a closeness but of a sharing of projects with subjects who have at their expense definitive convictions, starting with that lawyer Paolo Romeo, already definitively condemned by Mafia association, who is represented as the strategist of the secret organization, a very refined mind that used various associations to mask his interventions in favor of the 'ndrangheta to increase its power and influence. Among the facts in support is disturbing and serious - I can not fail to report it, because it calls us into question as Senate, also to respond to those who are telling the newspapers that there is nothing in the request - the episode reported in pages 85 and 92, in which - alas - other senators are called into question, in addition to my colleague Caridi, to prove the ability to infiltration of the 'ndrangheta. They are disturbing facts - I repeat - especially if they are reread in the light of the final judgment issued following the so-called Meta trial, in Reggio Calabria, and/or after the reading of the findings that emerge from the so-called operation Mammasantissima, in which it is reported of the extraordinary strategic and criminal ability of the aforementioned lawyer Paolo Romeo to bend to the needs of the 'ndrangheta, in its maximum expression, various associations, of which the leader is the association "Posidonia", through which weave strategies, using also journalists or online newspapers. The episode is that relating to the informal hearing of 16 January 2014 on the bill n. 1212, the so-called Delrio law, before the office of President of the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Senate, in which is also present the condemned for Mafia Romeo and at the end of which is acquired a document registered to the association "Active citizenship" which bears, among others, the signature of the same and to which will follow - among others on Zoomsud - articles of thanks also to the probable interlocutors to which Romeo refers in the various intercepts reported on the pages of the authorizations, which should plead the cause and the amendments that he says he has prepared himself. You understand: this is a very serious fact. It is therefore not just and only a matter of the personal freedom of a citizen - I would like to remind, among other things, my colleague Ferrara that Ciancimino was also mayor of Palermo - the subject that is being put to our attention today. The gravity of the facts that are being contested undermines the same activity that should be carried out in the institutions, including ours, for the sovereign people and not for the promotion of criminal organizations and therefore obliges us all - precisely because we are called to the honour of our office - to respond in a clear and strong way to our fellow citizens: to give back dignity and goodness to the Senate, to the judiciary as the third body to give back dignity and goodness, if innocent, to Senator Caridi, as I hope. Doing more risks endangering the same recognizability on the part of citizens in republican institutions. Looking for a shield, recalling Article 68 of the Constitution (I apologise to Mr Buemi, but I do not share his arguments) in cases such as this would betray the will of the constituent Fathers who, when they provided for Parliament's permission, although in the previous version, certainly did not imagine to give cover to crimes of such seriousness or that a parliamentarians could even be blamed because part of a criminal associative structure, for which he spends his office, so as to increase its influence and favor its criminal abilities, as I read from the judge's order for preliminary investigations. Rather, they thought of a shield against dictatorships and thus different things, such as crimes of opinion and freedom of expression. Caesar's wife must not only be, but also appear honest and this is an integral part of the burden of the role that the citizens have given us in this assize and cannot and must not be touched by any drop of mud. For all these reasons and even with extreme suffering, because the freedom of a citizen is at stake, the vote can only be in favour of the request for authorisation. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u139	Mr Albertini (AP-NCD-UDC) We're not paperweights from Trani's attorney's office. The Parliament of the Republic is not a paperweight of Trani's attorney's office. I am part of a political party that, having great respect for the Constitution, believes in the values it represents, starting with respect for the judiciary and respecting the judiciary means respecting the competences that the judges and the competences that others have. Matteo Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers, 31 July 2015. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and FI-PdL XVII]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, you are preparing to act as a letterhead of the investigating judge of the court of Reggio Calabria. However, before you make this gesture, of which I do not know what will remain in your conscience where you do it, you have the opportunity to free it from the trilobed clamp in which it is found: the desire to fork for all authorities and elites, media deception, infallibility by law of the judiciary. Today you can get out of this nightmare. You can free your conscience and make a choice of justice. You do not write the law today, you do not write it; you do not take measures. You are the law today. If we are to believe in justice, we simply believe in ourselves and act in justice, and I believe that in many of us there is this will. In order to convince you, by declaring the fact that our group and those who speak to you will vote against the arrest of Senator Caridi, I refer to a high school memory. The scene takes place after the death sentence of Socrates for impiety and corruption of young people. The execution cannot take place immediately because it must wait for the return of the sacred ship from Delo with the hemlock. Crite goes to prison to try to dissuade him to accept the sentence and convince him to flee from Athens. The deterrent is popular derision, popular condemnation by the crowd. Crite fears insults to Socrates' friends, accused of not helping him escape, but Socrates brings Crito back to reason. The opinion to be put forward is that of those who know, of those who are wise. He even makes an example of the gymnastics teacher that the athlete addresses to prepare his training for the race or the competition he has to face and not at the stadium. It is the conscience, not the voice of the crowd that must guide the choices. Then Socrates ends his dialogue with Critone remembering that the laws must be respected and these, almost becoming people, would accuse him if he tried to escape his punishment. The laws were - says Socrates - like my parents. For him they guaranteed his civil life, his freedom, respect for his duties and also the protection of his rights. Transgressing them would mean rejecting the order that his life had. I have already mentioned Article 68 of the Constitution, which requires us today to make a different choice from what you are preparing to do. I neglect to go into certain details already dealt with by some of my colleagues, but I merely look at a few points of reflection. Rule 68 does not only protect individual Members, but Parliament as a whole from interference from other powers, in particular the judiciary. The Constitution recognizes to us, a political body, the evaluation of the acts of the judiciary to protect the division of powers. The alteration of the plenum of our assembly is a serious insult to our institutions, if it is not motivated, and the request for protective custody takes place after fourteen years and is supported by evanescent and contradictory clues. The task of the Junta cannot be limited to the verification of sufficient evidence to support the request and take note of the judge's conclusions and arguments of preliminary investigations, but to assess whether fumus persecutionis exists, and not only in the sense that some magistrate may have something against someone, which is a limiting aspect (a serious enmity or something like that), but must be based on the appropriateness of the evidence on which the request is based, starting with the reliability of the reporters. Other colleagues have focused on the untrustworthiness, confusion, material errors, in a word on the absolute inconsistency of the reasons for the deprivation of liberty, not of one of our colleagues, but of any Italian citizen who has inconsistent evidence against him. Senator Caridi did not receive electoral support to be elected in various electoral rounds. We want to ask ourselves what was the synallagma of the reason why it should have been a compressary, as in fact it is accused of being, organized crime? I believe that all this is not there, and then we have to ask ourselves why he himself, if not for some inexplicable reason, certainly not in the acts, must be deprived of freedom. I do not want to waste any more time because, if the facts are important, reasoning is useless. It is the opposite: so many reasonings and few facts turn away from the truth. I have only this to tell you: if there is a conscience and there is in your minds, in the secret of the urn, you must vote for the freedom of Senator Caridi. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), FI-PdL XVII, CoR and AL-A. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u142	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I have listened - like all of us, on the other hand - carefully and respectfully to the speech made by Senator Caridi in this House to explain the reasons for his innocence from an infamous accusation. Dear Caridi, I hope you can prove your innocence and I hope that, if you are innocent, the court of freedom will give it to you on Monday. But the problem we have to face here is not that of the guilt or innocence of an Italian citizen. The problem is another, and it is that of equality of all citizens before the law. If a judge who is conducting very important investigations for the general and common interest, or a journalist, or a pharmacist who plays a role in a city in Calabria or Sicily, were accused, like Caridi, of being part of the 'ndrangheta, the protective custody order would be applied without whether or not. Then I ask everyone, even Caridi, what sense it makes to say that for a person who has been elected to perform a service to the nation this same rule does not have to apply. I feel sorry for anyone, for one day, for one hour, who is unjustly guarded in our prisons. But frankly, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand why there must be a different destiny for people who play an important role, but outside Parliament, and for Members of Parliament. You spoke in the law of immunity. I will simply remind all of you of the sense of parliamentary immunity, as well as of vitality, which is another subject which we cannot talk about here, because otherwise we risk being muddled by rampant populism. I remind you that parliamentary immunity served at a time when the country was being rebuilt, and there were strong, very strong and still in action, and not necessarily related to the structure of our democracy; immunity served to ensure, above all the opposition parliamentarians, that they could not carry out their mandate because they were unjustly accused, and accused above all for ideological crimes under the Rocco Code, for crimes against the State and, therefore, against the Government. That's what he meant. In the same way, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, the vitality was proposed and was born at a time when, if a worker had been elected on the lists of the Communist Party, or a petty bourgeois, a professor of gymnastics, in the lists of the Social Movement, the risk that he would no longer find work, and that there was no longer an entrepreneur or public office giving him a job, was very strong. That is the reason for this vile privilege thought of by the Constituents. Today the situation is completely different. Every Member of Parliament, senator or deputy, even if only for a parliamentary term, would almost certainly include this experience in the curriculum to be presented to find another job and, therefore, there is no sense in vitality, just as there is no sense in deciding not to persecute and not arrest a senator while he quietly stops another person. I conclude by reminding you that, if justice does not work in our country (it has been said passionately by many senators of the right, that I respect) it is up to us to reform properly, but we cannot solve the problem by creating an exception for those who are parliamentary, senator or congressman. Finally, as you can see, I didn't want to go into the matter of the papers that concern Senator Caridi, even though I looked carefully at them. As a member of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Mafia, however, I can tell you that there is something very interesting and alarming in the prosecutor's investigation. Many magistrates of Reggio Calabria have told us that in that Region it is the 'ndrangheta to ask the gentlemen not to enter the organization and the crime, because the laws provide severe penalties for those who are part of the organization and not for those who stay out of it. Therefore, there is the possibility (to be proved but credible) that there are other levels constituted in associations and circles of gallant-men who support, inspire and orient the mob organization called 'ndrangheta. So this investigation isn't as ridiculous as you're presenting it. Is there a mistake in the investigation? Is Caridi innocent? I hope Caridi proves his innocence. But let us not allow ourselves, a priori, to rob theorem of an action of the judiciary, which is very important for the future of the country and which we ourselves should recognize for its value. That is why my group will vote in favour of the request that we have been asked to make. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u145	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the story we are dealing with has no precedent, by gravity, in the history of the Republic. This is the most serious accusation that has ever been made to a Member of the Republic, except for past events, which, however, concerned matters of political turbulence. This is an accusation under Article 416- bis of the Criminal Code, contrary to what has been said this morning by some, who have spoken of smoky accusations or external competition. No, there is no outside competition and - as Senator Malan said - there is no Mafia political exchange vote either, because the magistrates consider Senator Caridi to be intrusive to the association. Therefore, there is no exchange, because he is "in there," according to the judiciary. Therefore, an unheard-of fact would occur: according to the judiciary, a member of the Senate would be part of the 'ndrangheta. Now, it's not up to us to go into the matter of the charges. There are very good lawyers, competent magistrates, courts and that is where the serious accusations will have to be examined and judged. However, we in the 5 Star Movement must say something after this debate. The first thing is that the accusations are not "not enough" and there is no mention of the hiring of four censored unemployed. You see, we're talking about an entire system, in which the 'ndrangheta had put her hands on the companies to public participation the Multiservizi, the Leonia, the Fata Morgana, the Recasi, the Reges. The indictment says that by taking advantage of his assignment to the environment in the Municipality of Reggio Calabria, he contributes to the agreed identification of operational management figures belonging to the same criminal system. I'm not the poor unemployed! Yet you have been told here that these were poor unemployed censored people. Among them, always according to the order, there are Rechichi Giuseppe, operating director of Multiservizi spa, important affiliate to the Tegano cosca; De Caria Bruno, operational director of Leonia spa, major affiliate of the Cosca Fontana di Archi; Logoteta Demetrio, president of the board of directors of the aforementioned Fata Morgana spa, political expression of Giuseppe Scopelliti (as the order says), Aiello Salvatore, operating director of Fata Morgana, member of the thighs and today collaborator. There are whole pages of these names: these are not just a few elements, but whole pages! And then something else has been said that is not true, that it would be facts dating back to time, but that is not true. The facts are serious, they are current and constant. However, there is another issue that has been raised, in an incredible way. It is said that the rules governing this procedure are designed to protect the integrity of this parliamentary body. Well, reading the order of the gip, it is clear that it is the judiciary that is intervening to protect the work of this organ, which is the object of the primary interest of a dangerous Mafia leader condemned definitively, lawyer Romeo, who fits in with the dynamics of this Assembly, preparing amendments and having the daring to request to be audited here, in Senate, in 2014, for the reform that he was pressured on, that is that of the Provinces and the Metropolitan City of Reggio. Sure, they had control. And they showed up here because they even wanted to anticipate the Metropolitan City. Of all this, the 5 Star Movement will of course demand that the Anti-Mafia Commission deal with it with a great career. Colleagues, it is the judiciary that is protecting our actions to prevent external interference, which are not those of the magistrates, as some colleagues have said today, unwisely, in this matter. The influences are of those gentlemen who make the count, to see who they can count on and, if one is too poor, they will make the amendments submit to a more credible one. This is something which is incredible and on which we have to ask ourselves, where we have arrived in this House and in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the gip says very heavy, very heavy things that we must read. The gip, and not the public prosecutor, says that it is this instrumentalization of its function in favor of the system, of which, like the permanence of the contribution provided by the Caridi to the associates, it is understood all in one of the last integrations, where it is understood that the current senator is always available to the needs of those who had determined his role as a man Government, that is, Paolo Romeo. Now we have to understand ourselves here, because this too has been confused. It treated the 'ndrangheta as if it were the mafia and as if the one we were talking about was a kind of dome. This is not the case: the dome was known to the members of the Mafia, who knew that the manding leaders, who were above the heads of the family and were the expression of the heads of the family, sat in it. Instead, this structure, which heads one of the fiercest bosses in the history of the most ferocious families of Reggio Calabria, the De Stefano - the other, the lawyer Romeo - is different, secret. They call her Saint and her affiliates saints, who have a special obligation, which does not exist with the Mafia, that is to say not to reveal even to their Mafia families to be part of it. In judgments already passed in court we read that those who are part of the supercosh the Saint must not reveal it to anyone, not even to members of his mafia family of belonging, because - as we read in the acts of a trial - if the Saint goes against that family, the sanctist will be infiltrated against his family. There are acts, murders have been carried out and convictions have been issued in this regard. We, then, must take this into account. When we talk about a confused picture, about families, we are talking about another level, very high, to which many families of the 'ndrangheta, different, working at another level refer on the territory. The lawyer Paolo Romeo was interested in the Metropolitan City, its business and the public companies that had them in hand: this he dealt with. Let us then return to our duty. Colleagues, our duty is to assess whether the work done by the magistrates has a persecutory significance towards the colleague. But we have to agree. If anyone, in fact, complains that he has been left alone for fifteen years, he can no longer come and say that he is a persecuted person. You can't say that. Nor can he say that these are acts of fifteen years ago. The trials that have taken place in Caltanissetta for the massacres of 1992 how old are they? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Or should we remember our Sicilian heroes, whose murders were deposed, with the investigations archived, reopened, re-archived and then 20 years later and in addition are found responsible and condemned? We seem to forget all these things when we get to these classrooms and we're saying they're 15 years old. No, it's facts that concern an entire political career, the history of a region. In this case there is the story of a unfortunate Region like my beloved Sicily, namely Calabria, unfortunate because there are men of that type and there are the 'ndranghetists. Having cleared the field of non-existent persecution, we have nothing left to do but take note of the necessary work of the judiciary and enable it to work. We will vote in favour of the report by the President of the Junta, and therefore in favour of arrest, and not just because - as we have always said - we are opposed to the use of these instruments, which are no longer relevant because they refer to other contexts - as has been well mentioned - that is to say to contexts in which the judiciary was under political control, as someone in this country would like to bring it back. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Fortunately, we are still in the midst of the independence of the judiciary, and we hope that it will remain so even after the referendum. But in this context there is no point in putting ourselves above the law and other citizens. Our colleague will have all the means and means to defend himself in the trial and not in here from the trial and from the magistrates of this country, who want to protect the free and democratic institutions of the Republic. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u148	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I listened carefully to the speeches in support of the vote in favour of the Junta's request for the arrest of Senator Caridi, on which I found essentially two arguments. The first, particularly in the intervention that preceded me, tends to emphasize or to tell in a somewhat peppery way some aspects of the story, but I must say not with good foundations, because the order of custody actually reports certain things, but does not specify some others. I am referring to the famous appointment of some people to whom - be careful - the Caridi has contributed: in the clothes he held, in fact, he did not have the opportunity to identify certain names on his own for certain managements of bodies that depended on public bodies. He would then contribute together with other people to the appointment of some executives who, however, at the time and for a long time thereafter, were censored. What if one day - and I hope this is not the case - even a Minister of the present majority - I am only talking about the present one because it is easy for us to talk about it - should be accused of this kind? Would it mean that all those who supported the government are criminals, since that minister at the time he was appointed, or was in office, was completely censored? That's one aspect. The other aspect I fear has more weight, because the picture that is presented to us by the court is so weak that they have been forced to emphasize impalpable things, like a word out of context pronounced fourteen years ago not even by Caridi, but by another person in a clearly political and also joking context, or, indeed, these hirings (of very few people, among other things), or the appointment of persons incensured. If, after almost twenty years in which Senator Caridi has been under surveillance, intercepted, in which every act he has performed in his public capacity has been passed much more than x-rays, you have managed to find only this, then we really are facing an extremely evanescent picture. I believe that if everyone's conversations were heard long enough, selected, taken and used with different meanings, such as the famous phrase on the bill of exchange to be honored, anyone present and not present could safely be the subject of such an act. In fact, a phrase said in another context is understood as if he, when he speaks of honoring the bill of exchange (and it is not Senator Caridi who speaks, but another, moreover not touched by any inquiry), referred to a mafia or criminal practice. I have heard many speeches that say that it is practically not our responsibility: the court will consider the review and wish Senator Caridi to defend himself in court. Others say that it is not even right that there should be such a procedure and that it is for the abolition of this small protection which exists for the Member who is the subject of a request for arrest, which is not the protection of the Member of Parliament but of Parliament, in order to prevent his decisions from being distorted by decisions of the judiciary, even if motivated by things much more serious and heavy than what we are going to read. The only serious thing about this accusation is that the crime is very serious; unfortunately the elements that prove this crime are evanescent or even prove otherwise. I hear the argument: "It's not your turn." It is not up to you, fellow senators, it is not up to me, it is not up to anyone; it is up to the judges, it is not about us. There is, however, one fact: the present Constitution was passed in 1947 I do not think to help any accomplice of the 'ndrangheta. I do not believe that the Fathers of our Constitution, of all the parties, who left the Resistance, have thought of writing Article 68 to help the 'ndrangheta. I don't think so, and I don't know if anyone here believes that. It is said that it is not up to you, it is a responsibility of others, here only the card arrives. But, dear colleagues (I use the word "cari," indeed), even if you think it is wrong, in this case it depends on the vote of each of us if, in the face of this accusatory picture, impalpable or even proving otherwise, Senator Caridi will be taken and put in a prison, waiting for, during the month of August, perhaps, there is some useful activity in the investigations for facts the most recent of which would have been accomplished (and I use the conditional, because in reality that fact is impalpable) eight years ago. But there is an absolute urgency to put him in jail, otherwise he ruins the investigation. But how? He's under control, his conversations have been under control for 19 years, and now, suddenly, is it indispensable, despite our code is very clear about it, to put him in prison without being convicted in any way? I remind each of you, ladies and gentlemen, that it depends on the vote of each of you. You can say that it would not be right, that it would be more right for these things to manage the courts alone, without bothering us; you can think of anything, but it is the vote of each of you that depends on the fate of a member of the Senate, the fate of the Senate, which today is configured in the person of Antonio Stefano Caridi. One more thing. In this case it is really about thinking, acting and putting your conscience at stake. The responsibility is not of others, it is not of the judges, of the Parent Company, of the President of the Senate: it is of each and every one of them must answer. Let us remember that the act we do today goes far beyond that person, but involves other people and involves the principle of justice, which wants everyone to judge according to conscience. There's never a due act. If there is a due act, this due act should be abolished, because the due act what does it mean? There is a decision, a choice of conscience and no other kind. That's what we're going to vote for. A great wise man said that going against one's conscience and conviction is neither wise nor prudent; and that great one did so at the cost of his own life. Here the price is much lower, but not for the person concerned, who instead sees at stake his own freedom, his family and his own public relations, which would forever be marked, because we know well that, once one enters prison, after he can have the brightest and shining absolutions, but then always remains what went to prison. If he goes to prison, it will be for the vow of each of those who will express themselves today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u151	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have already said this morning in this House that there are moments in the Senate's work - and this is one of those - which is particularly serious, which in many respects commit our responsibilities, political, moral and even men of the State. In a few minutes, every political group and every senator will be required to vote, taking into account the fundamental rules of our rule of law and the separation of powers, which we Members of Parliament so often call for our prerogatives to be respected. This morning I also wanted to acknowledge to the Senate the good collective work that has been done by all, by the majority and the opposition, in this final phase of our summer session. I confirm that. And I confirm this - I say this incidentally - although some of my collaborators have pointed out to me - and I do not want to believe it - that opposition senators would film me inside the Chamber and immediately outside the Chamber while I was conversing with my colleagues in opposition and majority senators. I don't want to believe that this is true and I don't want to believe that these methods are methods in use between us. All my political and parliamentary behaviour is public and I have absolutely nothing to hide. It will certainly not be these half-breeds that prevent me from contacting everyone - I say all - the senators, whether they are of the opposition or of the majority. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE]] I hear that some senators intend to leave the Chamber at the time of the vote and I respect this decision. But the Senators of the Democratic Party will all be in the Chamber and will vote in accordance with the decisions of the Junta. And we will not do so solely because of the position that the democratic components of the Assembly of the elections and parliamentary immunities have taken in that Chamber, after having carefully examined the acts. We will do so because nothing, but nothing has emerged, in the debate and in the papers of which we have had legitimate knowledge that suggests that in the affair concerning Senator Antonio Stefano Caridi is recognizable that prejudice and that bad use of justice that we have been accustomed to call fumus persecutionis and that, if it existed, would be the only reason why Parliament can deny the authorization to execute a legitimate measure of the judicial authority. In the long debate that has taken place today in this Chamber I have heard many detailed references to investigations, testimonies, the validity of evidence, the consistency of evidence, the content and the conduct of the judicial proceedings against Senator Caridi. I have taken the impression that, even forgetting that in the same procedure many defendants are now in prison, several senators believe that when Parliament has to decide on a request to arrest a Member of Parliament our task is to re-elect the trial to evaluate us, without having the title and above all without having the means and without having the full knowledge of the acts of the proceedings, whether the Member for whom the judiciary has requested the measure of arrest is guilty or not. But that is not Parliament's task. In democracy, Parliament makes laws and the judiciary judges. Today our duty is to examine the request of the judiciary in the only way that we can: to assess whether or not there is a persecutory intention towards a Member of Parliament and whether the request for a precautionary measure has been determined precisely by this intention. And it is the absence of this persecutory intent that directs PD senators to vote in accordance with the decisions of the Junta. I would like to remind the House of a political consideration which, in my opinion, is very connected to the issue we are talking about: in the early 1990s (Senator Ferrara mentioned in his speech at those years) Parliament made an abundant political use of parliamentary immunity by subtracting many Members of Parliament from justice for political reasons, and it was thus that parliamentary immunity became unbearable for the entire Italian public opinion, both right-wing and left-wing. And that misuse, that political use of immunity, decreed the abolition of the parliamentary immunity desired by our constituent Fathers as the garrison of democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini]] I believed and still believe in parliamentary immunity as a garrison of democracy, and that is why I believe that we must be strict in the application of an institution that has truly exceptional characteristics. Let us be very careful, therefore, and let us not repeat the experience and mistakes of those years. I would like to make one final point: all the groups present in the Senate Chamber, as well as many senators on a personal basis, have publicly expressed and have also largely motivated their vote during the debate. In view of this, it would be very serious if we now decided together to vote clearly. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups, and from Senator Mussini]] We must take account of experience and remember that all too often, in recent years, the secret vote has been used not for self-defense of cases of conscience but to implement political maneuvers in the secret of the urn. They are wrong practices, whatever the objective, personal or political, that they aim and among the many reasons that are humiliating the politics of our country there is also this: to say something publicly and then in the secret of the urn to make another. That is why the Senators of the Democratic Party want to be able to express themselves openly, with a clear vote and ask the House to be able to do so. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups. Comments by Senators Malan and Pelino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u152	President Zanda, I have already warned that a request for a secret ballot has been received, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, accompanied by the signatures of the prescribed number of senators. Therefore, if this request is not withdrawn, we will proceed as requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u154	Senator Di Maggio, I would say rather that his speech will be an explanation of vote, since Senator Augello, of his own Group, said that there was no indication of vote by the Parent Company. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u155	IN MAY (CoR). Thank you, President. In fact, I would have served your possible objection. I believe that this must be done above all at a time like this, precisely to express the doubts that the conscience of each of us has at such a delicate time that, unfortunately, it has also seen passages, in my opinion, not very nice. Applause at the moment when you decide on the personal freedom of a subject is, in my opinion, a sign of little sensitivity. I intend to intervene because I have never been the advocate of just justice: I have always felt that noun justice is full in itself, so either justice is there or it is injustice. Having said that, I believe that the debate that has led this House is often boundless, rather than in the search for truth, in the political sense of belonging and I find that this is dramatically unfair in a situation such as the current one and I would like to avoid this kind of judgment. You see, Mr President, I sometimes spend time looking for new readings and in bookstores I often get caught by quite strange titles. A while ago I happened to find a title that caught my attention: Your wrong areas. I looked at the fourth cover and discovered this American author, Wayne Dyer, reading that I found a passage that I think is extremely important to remember here today. This American author says that when you judge others, you don't define others, but you define yourself. Today I do not intend to participate either in the scalpe of those who want to shake a manner of justiceism, or in the continuous attempt to try to subtract the parliamentarians from the judges' judgment. I listened to what the member of my group's committee said. I believe that, as far as I am concerned, we are not in a position to make a judgment and that is precisely why, because I do not consider myself an infallible person - today I would like to make a mistake and have the opportunity to vote - and this is a 19-year survey, to which we have reserved only 48 hours, I am not in a position to vote. That is why I shall abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u156	Pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). [[Senator Santangelo points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Santangelo? For the control of the cards? We have not yet arrived at the time of the vote. I therefore refer, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, to the secret ballot by electronic procedure, on the proposal of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to grant authorization to execute the order of custody in prison against Senator Antonio Stefano Caridi, with reference to document IV, n. 14. I remember that the senators in favour of the Junta's proposal will vote yes by pressing the green button, the senators against the Junta's proposal will vote no by pressing the red button and those who want to abstain will vote accordingly, pressing the white button. In any case, the light that will light on the terminals and on the luminous board will be neutral for all. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u159	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I heard this voice and I did not mention it in my explanation of vote. I see several senators photographing the vote. I remember that this act, if done by an electorate in the electoral booth, is a criminally sanctioned fact. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Is that how you defend legality?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u160	You all know that the use of any tool capable of photographing or filming is forbidden. Before proceeding to the vote, I would ask the Secretary Senators to check that there are no cards abandoned. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Not even the balls they photographed now! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There's an abandoned card. I pray to the senators who are near an unattended card to cooperate. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, they put the ball on and photographed it to get proof of the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In the meantime, let's see the cards. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Everyone saw him! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There are no cards left without a corresponding senator in place. I declare the result of the secret ballot: [[Senators present 277 Senators voting 276 Majority 139 Favorables 154 Contrars 110 Absent 12]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u163	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I know that at the moment we should begin the examination of Article 2 of draft law No 2271 with the explanation of the amendments. Afterwards we have the examination of six articles. It is unthinkable to conclude the measure and simply to examine Article 2. In Article 1 we have defined the establishment of that fund and in Article 2 we are going to determine the recipients and what the qualifications and quality of these beneficiaries are. Frankly, in view of the time and the need to interrupt us after we have just started Article 2, I am asking you, if this is the case - I ask you to share my fellow Members - to proceed with the examination of Article 2 at the sitting to be held when our work is resumed. If my request is accepted by this House, I am also asking you, since the following is not included as the first item on the agenda during the week which provides for the resumption of the House's work, as the first item on the agenda, for this follow-up to be put as the first point on the resumption of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u164	Senator Calderoli, as you well know, this request can be made at the end of the session. Therefore, we must assume that no one contradicts his request to finish our work here. The agenda of the first part-session after the summer break will then be reversed. So first of all, it is a preliminary point that our work ends with the agreement of all the members of the Groups and of all the senators. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u167	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I am only speaking to support the request made by Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u170	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, having carried out our priority task of delivering our colleague to the prison patriae, I believe that the country also awaits our work as legislators, so I am to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u173	Mr Russo (PD). The Democratic Party Group agrees with Senator Calderoli's proposal, adding a further proposal: taking into account the importance of the measure envisaged at the beginning of the activities, i.e. the one relating to the criminal process, we ask that the sitting of 13 September be opened, so that the publication measure can be exhausted as soon as possible and then proceed without further delay to examine the second item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u174	Senator Russo, as I said, it is preliminary and preliminary to declare the session ended in order to then make the subsequent requests. In any case, Senator Buemi opposed the proposal to declare the sitting closed, which initially did not provide for a closing time, so before we deliberate on this point. Mr Russo (PD). We're counting on Senator Buemi to reconsider. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since there is no unanimity, we must vote on this request. Mr Russo (PD). We'll ask Senator Buemi to reconsider.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u177	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, at this point my speech is perhaps superfluous. I also believe that there is a risk that we will not be able to continue the examination of a measure which is absolutely fundamental to us in a moment's time, so I also call for the resumption of work to be placed as the first item on the agenda. But if there is opposition from Mr Buemi, we must still vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator De Petris, Senator Buemi's opposition is that the sitting is over. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). That's right, so perhaps we should proceed to the vote first and then we decide.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u179	Would you like to clarify your request? You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u180	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I do not want to coerce the will of my colleagues, but until yesterday we were here engaged, without closing hours, to carry out a legislative measure which, to say yours, not mine, was important. But this morning we had to take note that there was a more urgent measure and the will of the House expressed itself by voting in accordance with your point of view, Mr President. However, the country is waiting not only for judicial measures; the country is waiting for substantive measures and this should be our main activity. I therefore ask my colleagues: but what was urgent last night, today is no longer urgent, after we have solved the problem of Caridi? [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] Tell me, because if we want to go on vacation, know that I need it too. Tell me: if what was urgent yesterday, today is no longer urgent and for what reason?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u183	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement is here in the Chamber, ready to continue its work. It is Thursday afternoon, it is not yet 4 p.m., so we believe that there is a basis for continuing the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u184	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request to refer the remaining items to the agenda to another sitting. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, electronic voting is not allowed. I put to the vote the request that the remaining items be referred back to the agenda to another sitting. As the outcome of the vote is uncertain, I have the counter-test. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u185	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u187	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I asked for the measure to be included in the first item on the agenda, not the reverse. I would like to take this opportunity to stress once again, after being in the first person to ask that after the two reports the measure be examined, the importance of publishing and the hypocrisy of those who say they are interested in something and have done nothing to carry it forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u188	Senator Calderoli, not for the sake of controversy, but I continue to insist that this is a reversal, because it was planned to modify the penal code and, then, there was the continuation of the unfinished arguments. As this would be one of the unfinished arguments, it would be a reversal, but it does not matter. However, it does not change the substance (in a separate place we can discuss the matter).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u189	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u191	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I rise to renew my request that the sitting of 13 September be held without closing hours. (Senator Calderoli asks to intervene.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is What is it, Senator Calderoli?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u192	My request is not to include unfinished business. My request concerns the draft law on publishing. That is why I wanted to say that this is not a reversal, but an insertion of the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u193	Yes, but since it's the first of the unfinished arguments that we obviously drag ourselves...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u194	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). But my request is for the publishing measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The publication provision is the first of the unfinished topics. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). He's the first, not all. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I get it. Now he wants to philosophize. It seems to me that Senator Calderoli's request is unanimous.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u197	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I agree with Senator Russo's proposal, provided that we do not arrive in September and the President puts another item on the agenda, as happened today. I call on the Democratic Party to ensure that the work agreed at least for September is respected.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u198	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal made by Senator Russo to provide for the sitting of 13 September to be without closing hours.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u199	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u200	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. We'll suspend the session for 20 minutes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Since there is no quorum, the Rules of Procedure require that the sitting be suspended for 20 minutes. I therefore suspend the sitting until 16.21 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16:01 and resumed at 16:21.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to a number of requests received by the Presidency, I would like to point out that, subject to the deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law on criminal proceedings set at 1 p.m. on Thursday 8 September, the time limits for amendments to the other draft laws on competition and the market and labour are set at 1 p.m. on Monday 12 September. Having said that, there was an instance to be able to extend the first session to the resumption of the work of 13 September, already fixed with beginning at 16.30 and ending at 20, eliminating the closing time, in order to be able to finish the examination of the draft law on publishing, which unanimously was inserted as the first item on the agenda of the session at the resumption of the work. That's the point. We shall then proceed to the vote on this proposal. SANTANGELO (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u204	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is clear that the sitting will end at 8 p.m. by calling for the quorum to be checked and by failing to do so, and that the will not to work after 8 p.m. will be made clear. Let's be clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u205	It is clear, therefore, that the sitting already scheduled for 8 p.m. will be closed. Thank you, however, for your clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u206	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, let us turn to the speeches on topics not included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u207	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u209	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I have asked to speak on a personal basis, because, having been appointed several times, I believe that I must explain and apologise for what has happened today.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u210	Senator Fattori, I apologize if I interrupt you, as many senators go away, I would like to take the opportunity to wish you a good holiday, inviting you to relax and recharge your batteries because as soon as we return we will have many things to evaluate, discuss and approve. Please, Senator Fattori, you can continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u211	As I said, since I have been appointed in various debates, both in gestures and words, I would like to give an explanation and apologise to my colleagues. The first explanation is that, in fact, I was provoked by the accusation of making a direct recovery that I was not doing; I was struck by the insurrection of all the senators and therefore I reacted with the gesture of handcuffs done in the direction of some senators of the Democratic Party. I manage that it was absolutely not in relation to today's debate, which was delicate and within which it was not appropriate to make such a gesture. Even if I do so often in that direction, it was absolutely not the case today, and so I would like to apologize to all the people who have been hurt by this gesture and also to my colleagues whom I esteem, who are not those to whom this particular gesture was directed, who have rightly been stigmatized. I also apologise to my colleagues who felt that they were impressed with my behaviour as a group and also told me that it was not appropriate. I would like to express my solidarity with the people who have felt offended. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u212	Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u213	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u215	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make it clear that I wrote a tweet, at a very brief moment, which created misunderstandings. I absolutely did not want to refer to the person of Senator Zanda with the term "corruption" and "corrotto". That's not what I meant at all. I meant, in general, that there may be other people not yet identified by the judiciary inside, but I didn't mean at all... [[Comments from the PD Group]] I did not want in any way and apologise to Senator Zanda for giving the impression that the term "corruption" was addressed to his person. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u216	He can make up for it even better with another tweet in which he specifies what he said: that it was a mistake. Certainly with another tweet you will be able to fix it even better. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u219	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, I note, on behalf of my Group and not just Senator Zanda, an apology from the senator. I would ask you to take better care of the expression, because your tweet was, unfortunately, absolutely unequivocal. We welcome your apology and the clarifying words of your speech because there is no reason not to do so, but when you talk about the goodness of colleagues and the accusations that, although not fully intentional, they have this gravity, frankly I think there is a great deal to be meditated on, even on what is the spirit of belonging to an institution such as the parliamentary one. [[Applause from Senator Puppato.]] Mr President, I am speaking as President of the 1st Commission and not as a single senator, because many times, during today's debate and also in the newspapers, about a week ago, it has been emphasized, often with captious, ambiguous and insinuating words, that Paolo Romeo, involved and investigated in the course of the investigation we have also talked about today, when authorising us to proceed that we voted, has been audited by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in a series of hearings that the Commission's Bureau of Presidency has held examining the draft law on Provinces and Metropolitan Cities. I want to clarify immediately, in particular with reference to the interventions of Senator Molinari and Senator Giovanardi, that it was not Paolo Romeo who asked to be auditioned. Of course, when a single person makes a request, a verification of who is the person who asks to have entry into the Senate classrooms and to be audited by a Commission is initiated. The request to audate the active citizenship association, present since 1978 (first under the name of Democratic Federal Movement) and active in all the Regions of Italy, or rather the whole of the associations that in Reggio Calabria refer and are federated to that association, moreover in implementation of that principle of subsidiarity referred to in Article 118 of the Constitution, came from a parliamentary group represented in the Commission. The request, moreover, concerned the representative of Citizenship, who, as is often the case during the hearings, came to the Bureau together with other representatives of the Association. In these cases, as is customary, the President asks who takes the floor on behalf of the association invited and has taken the floor Mr Paolo Romeo, obviously unknown to the Commission. The thanks that have been mentioned on several occasions have not been in any way, nor could they have, in reference to the fact that the bodies represented by Mr Paolo Romeo have been accepted, since all the amendments tabled in line with these requests have been rejected on time by the Commission, but rather to the fact that the Commission felt at the hearing an expression of civil society and thus showed sensitivity for instances which came from below, as the document which was delivered also says. I say this because, while I believe that the attention - and very high will be my attention, the Commission's offices and colleagues - must be very high in order to prevent such an event from happening again, I believe that the Commission has behaved in a way that is absolutely consistent with what is not only regulatory orthodoxy, but also the best practice during the preparatory phase of such a complex measure, as was then the case with the establishment of metropolitan cities. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u222	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall be brief. A few days ago I submitted my question 3-03072 to the Ministry of the Environment to find out why it is among the funders of the foundation called Bill, Hillary & Chelsea Clinton Foundation, which, according to the foundation's website, would have arrived last year, in 2015. I find it extremely anomalous that a Ministry of the Italian Republic finances a foundation aimed at supporting a character who, as we know, is the protagonist of a political confrontation in the United States. It would be normal for the Ministry, without the need to urge it, to let it know, since this is a matter for the press, but this Government, by system, does not answer questions either. I therefore ask for an answer to my question, because if it arrives on 9 November then there is the suspicion that it is distorted or otherwise influenced by the result of the American elections.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u223	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-675.ana.u224	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 13 September, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) I wish you a happy holiday once again. The sitting was closed at 16.35 a.m.
