ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 6 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u3	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the Christmas festivities, at the end of a year already devastated by numerous dramatic terrorist events, Europe is once again struck by the barbarism of fundamentalist murderous madness. As everyone knows, on yesterday's evening, the city of Berlin became the stage of a criminal attack that, in its dynamics, brought to mind the images of the massacre that took place on the waterfront of Nice last 14 July. The peaceful and serene atmosphere of a Christmas market, one of the countless that cheer the cities of our continent, has been absurdly tormented by the will of those who, on the basis of a distorted vision of the religious faith, throw themselves at innocent and helpless people for the sole purpose of spreading death, suffering and terror. Among the victims we learn, from the latest news, that there is also an Italian citizen. The Berlin bombing is in addition to the barbaric assassination of the Russian Federation's ambassador to Turkey, which took place yesterday in Ankara. The two episodes show how murderous madness can operate according to very different dynamics, but united by the objective of trampling the dialogue between different peoples and religions in the name of fanaticism and abusive violence. All this is a warning not to deflect from a strict policy of prevention and countering terrorist phenomena that must start from the search for solutions to those international dramas (think of Syria, Libya and Iraq) from which fundamentalism draws food and pretext. The Senate of the Republic, in expressing its profound closeness to the families of the victims and the wounded, reiterates its commitment already made in cooperation with the other institutions to continue the action of contrast and prevention against all types of terrorist violence. I therefore call on the House to observe one minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u4	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. The Conference of Leaders approved the schedule of work until 12 January 2017. In the single session of tomorrow, beginning at 9.30 a.m., will be discussed the report to the Parliament, presented by the Government pursuant to article 6, paragraph 6, of the law 24 December 2012, n. 243. The timetable has been divided between the groups in order to allow the vote on the document hopefully around 12 o'clock. The vote must take place by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate. Tomorrow's sitting will end with this vote to allow the meeting of a parliamentary group which has requested it. The Assembly will meet again on Tuesday afternoon, 10 January. The timetable for this week provides for the examination of the document on the insincability of Senator Albertini, the follow-up to the bill on the professional responsibility of health workers, and ratifications of international agreements drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Committee. On Wednesday 11 January, at 4.30 p.m., Parliament will be convened in a joint sitting for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the following calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 12 January 2017: [[Tuesday, December 20 pom. h. 16 - Statement by the President on the schedule of proceedings Wednesday 21 December 9.30 a.m. - Doc. LVII-b, No 1 - Report to Parliament, pursuant to Article 6 (6) of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012]] [[Tuesday, January 10 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Doc. IV-c n. 4 - In the matter of incompetence - Follow-up to draft law n. 2224 and related - Professional responsibility for personal health (adopted by the Chamber of Deputies) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs on Wednesday 11 " ant. h. 9.30 (*) Thursday 12 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 12 January pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] (*) On Wednesday 11 January, at 4.30 p.m., Parliament shall be convened in joint session for the election of a Judge of the Constitutional Court. Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII-b (Report to Parliament pursuant to Article 6 (6) of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 15' Government 15' Groups 2 hours and 30 minutes, including: PD 34' FI-PdL XVII 17' M5S 16' AP (Ncd-CpI) 14' Mixed 14' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 12' ALA-SCLP 12' GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) 11' LN-Aut 10' COR 10' Dissentienti 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u8	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to raise a point which I have already raised at the Conference of Leaders because I think it is a good thing that this House is aware of this. Tomorrow, at 12 o'clock, there will be the vote on the request for a deviation from the balance sheet for a kind of shield, for about 20 billion, for our banking system. I am here to remind myself, all my colleagues and you, Mr President, that at this point we absolutely must put the debate on the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system on the timetable for the resumption of work and, even if there is going to be another Conference of the Leaders, I believe it is essential that the vote and direction of the Senate Assembly be expressed on this matter. I am talking about the Commission of Inquiry into the banking system in general, then there are other more specific draft laws: this is not a matter of majority or opposition but of transparency and honesty towards all citizens, all the more so given what will be voted on tomorrow. I therefore think that the resumption of work, already from Thursday of the first week, could try to incardinate the debate on the Commission of Inquiry. Secondly, Mr President, we know that Mr Poletti will not be able to report tomorrow, as the leader of the League has also asked, but we believe that his statements are very serious. We made a commemoration a moment ago: unfortunately our young people go abroad not by their own choice but because they are forced to find a job. We know exactly what the figures are, so I find Mr Poletti's statements offensive. For something like this, I also tell the government representative, I think someone should ask him to leave and resign alone. As if it were not based on the failure, now established, of its jobs act, it is not the first time, in these days, that Minister Poletti let himself go to truly incredible utterances. In this regard, I would like to announce that we are collecting signatures for the presentation of a motion of no confidence against Minister Poletti, of which we will of course ask for the timetable immediately to resume work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u10	You have the right to do so. Please work together, a little silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u11	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, we too are asking that the measure on the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system be set up as soon as possible, particularly on Monte dei Paschi di Siena, because, even in the light of the subject that we are going to discuss tomorrow, we are asking for clarity on how the Italian banks, and in particular Monte dei Paschi, have been managed in recent years. We cannot, in fact, think that public money is being asked or offered without knowing why it has come to this point and to these levels. At the same time, Mr President, as I also asked at the Conference of Leaders, we call for Mr Poletti to come to this House. We know that tomorrow he is in the Chamber of Deputies for the question time, but I do not think that it lasts all day and I personally am willing to wait for him, even until midnight, because I want to hear from Minister Poletti the same words he has said in recent days against all those children, our fellow citizens, our compatriots who have been forced, also thanks to the policies by phenomena of this Government (I say this Government because we know very well that the Renziloni Government is only the continuation of the previous one) to go abroad and that only last year were more than 150,000. Mr Poletti's words in recent days are embarrassing, so we would like to hear from the speaker of the Minister, in this House, the reasons why he has made these statements. At the same time, Mr President, we also ask you to listen to Mr Alfano's Foreign Minister tomorrow - I am sorry I did not say that at the Conference of the Leaders, but we only talked about it a few moments ago with colleagues - also in the light of what happened in Ankara and Berlin. We know that Mr Alfano is currently engaged in a number of important meetings, but it seems right that he should come to the Senate to report what is really going on. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u14	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, given for granted that you wanted to include this issue before the Panettone, which is about twenty billion debt on the Italian gourmet, I say that it would be appropriate to implement something that the Movement has proposed, namely the Committee of Inquiry into the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, which is only from April 2013 that it is waiting, and then the one on the four banks that you saved and for which now it is necessary to save, because as they have gone out no one wants them. Since Senators Marcucci and Esposito proclaimed a year ago that it was important to bring her to the Chamber quickly, I would say that we should move from announcements to facts. Another thing that would be interesting to do is to ask the former President of the Council why he went to the Cheticella leaving everyone with the $20 billion hot potato. Don't think you can handle this. You are asking to do up to 20 billion debt without telling us where you want to go to put the money: this is unacceptable. It is unacceptable that we continue to give money to people who have destroyed the banking system and who can go on doing so without putting their noses in it: if we put the money, we want to see the camel! We therefore call on the Committee of Inquiry into the Monte dei Paschi and the other four banks to take immediate action: we will ask for the statement of urgency so that they can come to this House even if the Commission has not finished its examination. We want to see if you are going to understand how this money is to be used, because the citizen-bancomat has now run out of money. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u17	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, Mrs Ministro, ladies and gentlemen, we have suspended the examination of the draft law on occupational responsibility in the field of health and we have essentially postponed the continuation of the work to another sitting (we have voted on eight articles of that draft law and there are still ten). The sitting of tomorrow is open at 9.30 a.m., with no indication of the closing time. It is true that a group has asked for its meeting to be held and has asked for the suspension of work by 12 noon, but it is also true that this does not presuppose, even using practice, that work cannot resume immediately after the conclusion of the meeting of that group, in order to allow for the dismissal of an important measure, on which a good political convergence has developed, both for the quality of the work carried out in 12a. The Commission and the debate which has already begun in this House and which has seen the adoption of eight articles by a very large majority. I therefore call for the work to continue tomorrow, immediately after the conclusion of the work of the Group which requested the suspension, with on the agenda the continuation and possibly the conclusion of the examination of the draft law on occupational responsibility in the field of health. Mr President, tomorrow morning we shall be discussing the case which the Government places before Parliament in order to obtain the vote, to be voted by an absolute majority, on a measure of a particularly sensitive and important financial nature. Of course, we will enter the substance of the subject into the debate that will develop tomorrow. I refer to the provisions of article 6, paragraph 6, of Law n. 243 of 24 December 2012, which provides that, in cases of serious financial crisis and extraordinary events, the Government may resort to debt to carry out transactions related to financial consignments. As indicated by a special rule, it may be foreseen the need to resort to this faculty of the Government, connected with the construction of a piggy bank that protects the banking system and in tomorrow's debate we will deepen, more and better, the conditions that have determined the use of this debt. In any case, the relevance of the argument shows that it is possible to give a solution to the problem of the economic maintenance of the banking system in fact by resorting to debt, that is - basically - making the Italians pay a series of skitteries. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, I invite you to explain your request to change the schedule of the work. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, the request for a change to the timetable calls for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into the banking system, as Mr De Petris and Mr Centinario have also requested, immediately after the resumption of work, of the issue of setting up a Committee of Inquiry into the banking system, with all the decisions to be taken. This is a request that I formalise, together with the need for Minister Poletti to make as soon as possible an information on the unexpected and in some ways incredible statements that he issued yesterday. I believe that it must be understood whether and how much the content of the Minister's statement of labour and social policies corresponds to a government conviction. This is an absolutely important aspect which cannot be excluded from the interests of this House and which deserves to be deepened and debated. In this sense, I make my request for correction and integration of the schedule of work for tomorrow and for the first day of work after the holiday break. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u20	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, it was on 24 November when this House approved the statement of urgency for the debate on the setting up of the Commission of Inquiry into the events within the cooperative, community, foundation and Il Forteto association. Since the urgency procedure provides for half-lives and 30 days to bring the draft law to the House, it would expire on 24 December, first of all, I would ask the President of the Commission to put the matter on the agenda for the next sitting and, then, to include it in the Assembly on 10 January, when we come back from the Christmas holidays.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u23	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would simply like to point out that Christmas is approaching and, unlike two years ago, when we were held until late at night in order to frame the report on the electoral law that you are denying today, you yourselves who approved it and who for that law kept us here until 7 a.m., after forty-eight hours in a row in the House from the calendar you have read, Mr President, today is Tuesday, we started at 4 p.m. (some Commission at 3 p.m.) and tomorrow, at 12 p.m., we all go home. That should make us ashamed of all those who work all week long. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Perhaps the days of tomorrow afternoon, after tomorrow morning and - I want to exaggerate - even after tomorrow afternoon (since the schools until Thursday are still open and those who have children can not even go on vacation) we could at least commit them in some way. I would therefore like to supplement the proposals to amend the timetable for the work put forward by Senator Bottici and Senator Martelli. I remember that on November 12, 2015, over a year ago, Senator Minzolini was definitively sentenced to two and a half years of imprisonment and, for this reason, under the Severino law, should automatically trigger his decadence: it has passed a year. In July 2016, after eight months, the Junta for the elections and parliamentary immunity resolved the proposal for revocation; from July 2016 we are in December (in fact, in January from the calendar it has read) and of this decadence, there is no trace of this vote. That is shameful, Mr President. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is shameful that Senator Albertini, who was deliberated a long time later by the Council, should be confronted with the indisputability of Senator Albertini, and should not be faced with what should be a simple ratification. I remember that in the case of Berlusconi, when probably someone wanted to break a pact, the immediate calendarization of Berlusconi's decadence was advocated, which we asked for. Today it is Minzolini and the thing is silenced: maybe someone is afraid of what Senator Minzolini could say and tell in the Chamber, of all the background from the story that concerns him. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You may be afraid of this, more than anything else, or of the vote you will have to respond to, then, the people and the Italian citizens. That is why I call for the debate and the vote on Senator Minzolini's motion for a resolution to be held tomorrow afternoon after the interruption of the parliamentary group's meeting. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u26	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, there is absolutely a need for a change of timetable here. It is not possible that every time some banks are in difficulty due to serious financial crises, certainly not due to political management of the country, but simply to financial management of private banks, the state must intervene. In fact, when there is a crisis the State intervenes to heal; when there is a gain there are those who put it, privately, in their pockets. It would therefore be appropriate to change the timetable, not only in the sense indicated by my colleague: You must immediately understand this Mount of the Paschi of Siena why and who gave this money to. To who? Did you ask for the guarantees or not, before you gave the money? Then we must immediately set up the Commission of Inquiry into the four banks. That said, we remember that on 15 December last the Authority guarantor for the competition and the market has started a procedure against the main insurance companies active in Italy in reference to the RC auto policies. So, Mr President, this Democratic Party, when it comes to banks and insurance, makes itself available, when it comes to citizens or motorists, it does not make itself available. Well, Mr President, I would like to ask that the draft law No 1597, which deals precisely with the provisions on car RC, finally be discussed in order to resolve the problem of the indiscriminate increase in car RC charges, even to the detriment of honest and virtuous drivers. Thank you, Mr President, we do everything immediately, perhaps this week and the resumption of the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u29	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, we call for the immediate calendarisation of motion No 505, tabled in January 2016, precisely in relation to the banking crisis, in which we called for a review and monitoring of the work of the Bank of Italy, as a guarantee and transparency body and on the obligation to assess a financial and fiscal balance in our system. We presented it last January and so far it seems to us that its debate is very topical. We call for it to be included immediately in the calendar, given the issues we are going to discuss following the request, which is being made, to increase the debt to go and help the whole banking system, which is apparently in serious difficulty. It was a year ago and today it is even more so than ever.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u32	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, I rise to reiterate what has already been said in this House by other Members about the words of Mr Poletti, who has reiterated his view of the young people, the hundreds of young Italians who are abroad at the moment, to say the least. I repeat them in this House, so we are all aware of these words: I know people who have gone away and that it is good that they are where they have gone, because surely this country will not suffer to not have them anymore in the foot. Now, I also understand that our colleagues are not interested, because all of them will go home and have a hot meal and many good wishes, along with their family members, which the families who are abroad at this time, not only young people, probably will not be able to have, due to lack of money. However, I would ask the Assembly to pay attention to these important issues, which the previous Government has not done and which is not doing this Government, as confirmed by Minister Poletti's statements, putting into effect a reform of the work that is not labour reform and that has wasted 18 billion euros, taking away resources from young people and the South. To this Government and this inadequate Assembly, which constantly thinks about doing its own business and spending its own quiet Christmas, at home with its family members, while 100,000 young people and other families are outside Italy... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The proposed amendments, thank you. CATALFO (M5S). ...and thousands and thousands, indeed millions, 2.759 million Italian families are at risk of poverty, and even more so to you, Mr President, who knows of the repeated requests, pursuant to the Rules of Procedure, at the Conference of the Leaders, on the bill on citizenship income, I repeat the necessity that finally be included in the timetable of the Assembly's work, as soon as possible, the proposal for a law on the establishment of citizenship income in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u35	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I apologise for asking to speak only at the end, because as far as I am concerned, the presence of this Government here today shows us that sovereignty in Italy no longer belongs to the people, because the Government has taken 19,400,000 slaps in the face for the referendum... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, please explain your proposal to change the calendar. CASTALDI (M5S). I did not want to intervene, because I do not recognize him anymore, but since the Government is present, since the insurance companies make a sign and since the examination in the Commission referring to the draft law n. 2085 ended on 2 August last year - it is the famous bill for the market and competition, which now know also the children and which happens to be, in its part of insurance - I ask for the calendarization for tomorrow afternoon, after the meeting of the Group of Forza Italia. [[Applause from Senator Montevecchi]] Tomorrow, Mr President, it is Wednesday. Christmas is Sunday: we have Wednesday afternoon, Thursday and Friday to work. Then, if anything, since we have not worked for the citizens for months, because you had put in a safe a referendum that you have lost, I ask you to insert immediately, tomorrow afternoon, after the examination of the draft on competition law, the provision for the establishment of citizenship income: we use some public money for citizens and not for banks and insurance! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would ask you to include immediately after a measure which has already been scheduled in June, Mr President, but which we have forgotten, namely the provision for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into public procurement and the phenomena of corruption and collusion related to them, namely the draft law No 1881. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] I also ask for two other very important things - close to me is Senator Endrizzi - to happen in January, when we return, so for Christmas they earn a little more ': I am referring to the inclusion in the calendar of motion 1-00563, on the contrast to gambling, presented in April 2016, and of the bill n. 1954, that all members of the Assembly, except the 5 Star Movement, have always deliberately and gently ignored, that is, the provision that proposes the institution of the so-called DASPO for corrupt politicians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I therefore call for these measures to be included in the timetable. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u36	We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask my colleagues to get to their seats and I ask the Senators to check if there are any seats with cards in place, which do not match senators. I ask you to cooperate in extracting the cards that do not match the presence of a senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u37	I would remind you that the timetable for the establishment of committees of inquiry on procurement, the banking system and the Monte dei Paschi di Siena has been requested. We will only have one vote and then, if necessary, we will specify. I shall therefore put to the vote the proposal to include in the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly the examination of draft laws establishing parliamentary committees of inquiry. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to include further draft legislation in the agenda of the Assembly's proceedings. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I shall put to the vote the proposal to include motions for resolutions in the agenda. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to include in the calendar of the proceedings of the Assembly the examination of the document of the Junta of the elections and of the parliamentary immunity concerning Senator Minzolini. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. As far as Mr Alfano's request for information is concerned, we look forward to hearing about his willingness, while we know that Mr Poletti is already engaged. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). It's okay after that, not necessarily tomorrow. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u38	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank President Centinario for understanding that tomorrow Minister Poletti will not be able to be here because he is busy with the question time in the House: these are special days. However, Senator Centinario, you would be in danger of being alone in this House. However, Minister Poletti, to whose apologies I associate my own, is at the disposal of this House at the resumption of work to respond to the requests made at the Conference of the Leaders and in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u41	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Minister, I would be willing to be alone in this House if our colleagues do not care what Mr Poletti has to say, and I would be willing to listen to him, as I said before, even until midnight, given the seriousness of his statements. In any case, I am satisfied with a vote in this House to have the information of Minister Poletti as the first item on the agenda for the resumption of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u42	I put to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda the information of Minister Poletti as the first item on the agenda for the resumption of work. It's approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u45	[[Brusio.]] I would ask colleagues to leave the Chamber in silence to allow Senator Bellot to speak. BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, I would like to highlight and give a voice to Question 4-06761 which I tabled today on a very serious case involving one of our compatriots, one of my fellow citizens from Belluno living in the City of Mel; a 46-year-old boy, Emanuele Martini, who was killed in June 2016 in Cali, Colombia, in circumstances that are still very unclear to date. This boy was a driver and at the beginning of spring he had already suffered an attack, for which he lost an eye and had immediately filed a complaint, addressing himself to the local prosecutor of the Italian embassy in Bogota and also to the forces of the local order. (16:45) (BELLOT followed). The hearing was scheduled for October 4, but immediately after the date was fixed the boy was approached by some local people who with threats and pressures asked him to withdraw the complaint. After his denial he was colded with eight gunshots, fired while he was standing at a traffic light driving a car. The sister, who lives in Italy, immediately activated to bring back the body that, after nine days in the cold cell, was buried in Colombia because of the impossibility to bring it back to the native country. There are numerous communications between the family and diplomatic authorities, including the Farnesina. Unfortunately, however, in November, with an email from the head of the consular services, the sister was informed of the will of the prosecutor in charge of the investigation of the murder to file the case for the absence of sufficient evidence and therefore of evidence that could still support the research on the motivations that had led to this murder. The consulate activated itself to give a local lawyer, who, also because of the distance and difficulties, was no longer summoned. On 19 December - a few days ago - an e-mail from the Italian ambassador to Colombia arrived, informing the Colombian Ministry of Foreign Affairs of a note sent to the Colombian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, protesting for the lack of clarity of information, for the lack of information also on the autopsy and the assessments carried out both on the vehicle and on the site of the accident; moreover, a meeting with the Colombian Minister of Justice was also requested. To date, Farnesina communicates that it is not possible to carry out the research, that there are no resources ad hoc to be able to do further in-depth analysis possibly with persons responsible for the case. I therefore voice the request of these people who are in a state of despair, not understanding how a compatriot of ours can be abandoned, since there is no contact with families, and how there is no will to guarantee justice to a compatriot of ours who, in still very dark circumstances, has lost his life. I would therefore ask that, through you, Mr President, we also bring this matter to the attention of the Ministry and support the question I have put today. [[Applause from Senator Santini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u48	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, with this speech at the end of the sitting I continue today in the Senate a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she has been linked by a loving or affective relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. There are four episodes that we must unfortunately remember. Elizabeth Quispe, twenty-nine years old, was strangled in Seveso on the night of November 24th by her husband. A few hours earlier the Carabinieri had intervened to calm a violent quarrel between the spouses also arranging the immediate removal of the violent husband, but then kept at home, with the consent of Elizabeth, to calm the children. In Pescara, then, in my region, on December 2, Jennifer Sterlecchini, a 26-year-old girl, was stabbed by her former partner, from whom she had recently separated, while she had gone to her home, accompanied by her mother, to make the move of her stuff. The mother stays outside the door and inside happens the horrendous feminicide. On December 5, in Frattaminore, in the province of Naples, Catia Perrotta, a forty-year-old woman, was killed, together with her three-year-old son, by her husband who then committed suicide. A few days ago, Gabriella Fabbiano, forty-three years old, mother of two children, was killed in Cernusco sul Naviglio, in the province of Milan, with a gunshot. She was then wrapped in a plastic tarpaulin and thrown into the low water of a quarry along with boulders to hold her body. Already in 2010, the man who killed the woman had been arrested for trying to kill her ex-wife by investing her in the car. I would point out, therefore, that women killed in a very short period of time are 31. The relay started on June 30th. In a few months we have reached this high number. ISTAT informs us that a woman is killed in Italy every 2.2 days. 46.3 percent of the women killed die at the partner's hands. The severity of sexual and physical violence has increased. Cases of assisted violence are also growing. We propose with conviction our appeal to the whole Government: the steering booth monitors the application, the merits and the limits of Law No. 119 of 2013, and above all give full and accurate implementation to the anti-violence plan. The second appeal is addressed to the media: stop calling these crimes "passionali". There is no passion; enough with the justification of the murderers and the guilt of women. I address a final appeal to the country, to men and women. There are 160 women killed every year, we can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u51	ZANONI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, I would like to bring to your attention an urgent issue. In these weeks the problem of delivery to alternate days of postal correspondence is being accentuated, provided by Italian Post Office in several municipalities. The European Parliament, with Directive 97/67/EC of September last, gave precise indications on the principles of accessibility and high-level postal services in all Member States, indicating the minimum limit of five days of delivery per week. In our country, however, the delivery every other day is causing considerable disservices, especially for the more peripheral and less densely populated areas like our mountains. The issue is now being highlighted weekly by local administrators, citizens and companies. I would point out that these choices are also causing great problems for newspaper publishers, especially on a local basis. The delivery every other day in fact causes considerable damage to a sector like that of journalistic publishing already put to a hard test by the structural crisis of these years. I emphasize how from a statement of Italian Posts of 9 November 2016 emerges a positive picture of the accounts of the company. We do not understand why we want to reduce the service so intensively. The situation requires urgent analysis. These days, just before Christmas, disservice creates serious problems: things cannot be delivered after Christmas. Ladies and gentlemen, at this historic stage of major economic difficulties as well, we need to guarantee services to our citizens. I therefore put a question to the Ministry of Economy and Finance to ask for a clear picture of the situation and to know what will be the operational choices of Poste Italiani in the near future. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u54	VACCARI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take a few minutes, also on behalf of my colleague Maria Cecilia Guerra, to recall the figure of Senator Silvio Miana, who died in recent days at the age of 90. In this reconstruction helped me another Modena senator, Giuliano Barbolini, who for longer than I shared with Silvio Miana experiences of local government and party. The personal history of Miana's political and civil passion is rich in many aspects and interweavings, among party experiences in cooperation and institutional experiences, and with important activities at local and national level: an absolutely original and individual story, due to the depth of his person and together, however, also strongly interwoven, in a choral dimension, with the great transformations and protagonists that have marked the evolution of Modena society and the country over many years. Silvio Miana becomes partisan in the Modena brigade, the Modena Armando division, takes part in the Resistance in Piumazzo di Castelfranco Emilia, in the Youth Front. After the Liberation, he arrived at the League of sharecroppers and settlers, became head of the League, then secretary of the chamber of work of Castelfranco Emilia, and later provincial secretary of the union of sharecroppers. After the party school, at the Frattocchie, at the age of twenty-nine he was elected provincial secretary of the federation of the Communist Party of Modena, succeeding Giuseppe D'Alema. It remains in office until 1962, in a period of criticality, because they are the years of the transition in Modena reality from "reconstruction" to the phase of the promotion of development. In 1959 Silvio Miana was elected regional secretary of the Communist Party and contributed to a restructuring of the party form in the sign of greater autonomy of territorial expressions, then making his entry into the national direction in 1962, together with a substantial group of new regional leaders. Since 1967 he has been the national president of the League of Cooperatives, which he will hold until 1976 when he is elected to the Chamber of Deputies. There Miana holds the position of vice president of the Industry Commission. In that capacity, one of the main commitments will be to follow up the survey on energy resources and strategies to identify new sources as well as the use of nuclear power. His work will then be approved by a motion in this House. Miana has always paid attention to the problems of the industrial policy of the steel industry in Modena. She is very committed to various draft laws on industrial policies, and always attentive to actively interacting with the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. After the House, he was elected to the Senate for two legislatures, and between 1983 and 1987 he held the office of Quaestors, as well as a member of the Labour Commission. From Questre, Miana worked to make the work of the parliamentarians more efficient, with suitable spaces for the carrying out of the tasks of study and study, as well as of report, and to set up actions of sobriety that, although not having been able to find the necessary support, have anticipated measures of efficiency and reduction of improper costs, which have nevertheless served as a reference for interventions adopted subsequently. The last time we met, a few months ago, he said to me once again: "I recommend, Stefano, make your way in Rome, which is not a good time for politics." It was for us, "figiciotti" of the eighties, a political man of one piece, of those who listened with pleasure and awe when he intervened at party meetings or in public. With him it was always enriching to discuss, even if he thought otherwise, because he always had time for us and always liked to teach us politics, dialogue and confrontation with those who had different ideas. To him my generation owes much and we will miss him so much, because of the ability he had to transmit memory and knowledge, to stimulate us to be as far-sighted and innovative as he was. Even in recent years, we met at the party of the Democratic Party and it was always a pleasure to stop to talk and exchange opinions on the current Modena or national. To his children and dear friends Marco and Carla, our mourning, the mourning of the whole Group of the Democratic Party, with the awareness that there will be many actions and projects that will be realized to enhance his legacy, what Silvio has given and done as a witness to the change of politics and the left in this country and its territory. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u55	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-735.ana.u56	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.59 p.m.
