ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1678-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting a proposal was rejected not to move on to the examination of the articles and the examination of the single article of the draft law and of the amendments and agendas submitted to it took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u7	[[Brusio]] Anyone who does not wish to listen to explanations of vote is, however, asked not to be a clown in this House and to lower the tone of the voice. BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, thank you. My explanation of vote will be a brief explanation of vote, because this House is about to vote on a measure that has already been extensively examined and voted on at first reading in June last, with the valuable work of two rapporteurs, Senators Stefano Esposito and Pagnoncelli, who have examined on time and in every respect this important delegation, a little too much but which is nevertheless an important act. At the time, the newly formed Group of Conservatives and Reformists welcomed a structure for the transposition of Community provisions, which was considered to have a positive impact on the overall and stratified system of public procurement. In fact, then, we felt that the measure presented to this branch of Parliament was able to define a framework of more streamlined, certain and transparent rules; rules capable of freeing our businesses from the snares and snares of a bureaucracy that, unfortunately, continues to weigh on the not only economic life of our country. Today, however, the opinion expressed by the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, which I represent, on the text dismissed by the House, cannot be as positive, despite the excellent work done by the rapporteur Mariani. The measure that we have examined presents a significantly changed system and not only because the original scope of the delegations has undergone a significant extension, but above all because the changes introduced with the second reading risk - and we will probably be easy prophets - to generate many problems of putting into operation, as well as possible alterations of the functioning of a market that is already anything but perfect. I would like to focus on a number of points which I believe may be areas of such problems, but the time available does not allow it. I shall therefore start with one example, Minister. Despite the debate that has taken place in recent days, I still have no doubt about the link between a possible procedure which makes a company fail or suspends its ability to perform public works and the idea of maintaining the same capacity to companies which, on the other hand, have lost it as a result of bankruptcy. We are not talking about firms in difficulty to which to grant some derogations - which could also help them in a time of crisis such as the one we are still going through - but of companies whose decision-making bodies are delegated judge and curator. Moreover, how does the publicist figure of the curator reconcile with the managerial powers provided for by the measure with current bankruptcy legislation? Leaving the answer undetermined, do we not risk, once again, leaving the most diverse interpretations of the courts the solution to that answer? This would be a bad result for the ambition that we have and that you too, Minister, have to be able to offer the Government a broad delegation to resolve the problems. We are also concerned about the regulatory framework that we are drawing for the DAC, the Authority that has in fact commissionered the Ministry in the matter of public contracts and contracts and that is being configured as an Orwellian supervisor, also beyond the world designed by Legislative Decree no. 163 of 2003, beyond the interest of the same ANAC, Minister, which will soon be overwhelmed and will become the cross to which hang all the failures of the public administration. In the interests of all, of the DAC in the first place, I think it is appropriate to define better the areas of action of that Authority no further than the main action for which it was born. There are many other concerns that emerge from the text that came to us at the third reading; doubts highlighted by our Group during the process in the Commission, with a number of amendments. I am thinking of the imperative need to ensure effective coordination between the old and new rules on public contracts, but also of old and new aspects of other disciplines emerging from the measure under consideration, as well as the absolute need to avoid interpretative uncertainties in the implementation, specifying, clarifying with clarity certain principles of delegation. I am thinking, for example, of the need to provide for direct custody in cases of urgency caused by natural disasters, thereby limiting the generality of the emerging situations of civil protection, indicated by the House; or of specifying the scope of the secret contracts to be applied to the use of the discipline provided for in the provisions under consideration. These and others - I conclude, Madam President - are the doubts raised by the Conservatives and Reformists about the text under discussion, which, together with those of other political forces, have allowed the rapporteurs to agree on an agenda, an expression of these critical issues, which the Government has accepted; and I, Minister, thank you for that. It is an appropriate choice that the Executive has made, which leads the Group of Conservatives and Reformists to express a vote of abstention on the measure, hoping and wishing the Executive to be able to translate into binding rules the indications contained in the act of address that it has accepted. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u10	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, as they suggest, I would like to be quick. (Senator Giovanardi converses with Minister Delrio). If Mr Giovanardi allows me, I would like to address the Government directly, because I believe that today's is a very important step, although there is little attention in this House. Through this measure we confer a delegation to the Government, with the hope that in this country you can really change board and change course. This hope inspired our action at the Senate in the Commission at first reading, because all the groups called for public works to be done in this country with the same dignity as they are done in the rest of Europe. We already have the same dignity in building these works materially, because we have companies that outside our borders are able to work very well, while within our borders they are unable to work. This is very serious. There are companies that in other European countries - I tell you from personal experience - manage to accumulate the bonuses that are awarded when the works are finished before and are done well. Instead, in our country they are champions in the art of the reserve, which is unique in our country and which has created the conditions for which in our country companies, and also a part of the design offices, have at the disposal of lawyers rather than technicians; this is an anomaly. This spirit has united the Senate's Public Works Commission in order to improve the text presented by the Government. So many steps have been taken. In particular, the Government has taken a step, which in our opinion is very strong, with the overcoming of the objective law, which leaves us some perplexity, but which can be a good start. After telling my political side that we want to overcome the objective law equally, for someone old in the trade in my movement there was a moment of impasse. But I share a thought that is quite common in the country: it is time to stop making a list of works only to satisfy that political part that needs to go to the territories to give guarantees (which will always be ignored) during the election campaigns. We must write names and surnames of works that have the certainty of sharing, starting from a debate on the territory and therefore without the usual appeals, that they have the certainty of funding and that they have the certainty of their execution and delivery. We are tired of seeing the cinema so far seen in our country, with works unfinished or that have undergone appeals. These days, Minister, I have given you several examples, which you know well. Maybe I have made them with a little emphasis (I am in opposition, so I always try to do my job); but, judicially and consciously, we must think that our mission is to try to give a positive perspective to the country. We have done an excellent job in the Commission. We have handed over to the House a text for which, in the first instance, we voted in favour and which presented the conditions for the Government to be able to accept this line of thought and elaborate it. Then, in a second debate, we would have considered whether this text was ready to gather our demands and our hopes on this issue. From the House, as often happens (I don't know why), a text has returned that is not exactly what should give us the guarantees that the Government can work peacefully. Honestly, Minister, when it was given to us, the idea of our Group was even to vote against this issue. I must say to you that in these days, when we have had the pleasure of having you in this House - although we are also discussing the issue of the privatisation of the railways with you in the Commission - you are dealing with certain issues (as opposed to other of your colleagues in the government and also the Prime Minister) with the mayor's mindset and with an approach that we do not regret. This approach has also been demonstrated in welcoming, with regard to infrastructure, but not only and I will talk about it later, the agendas of the day that I presented yesterday and that, although a little watered down, well or badly summarize what should be the will that I expressed before, also with regard to a list of important public works and strategic infrastructure that a President of the Province, or presumed such, and the local administrators like to see written in a paper. They like to see written that work A, rather than work B, is taken into consideration in the country, at all levels, and not only included from the economic point of view (which could also be good, at the limit), but above all from the programmatory point of view. The will is to see written the works that you really want to realize. And that is what all serious politicians and all administrators and territories are asking for. And it's legitimate. That is precisely what we are asking for on this agenda. Since we are talking about the reform of the procurement code, including competitions, there is also the case of hydropower, which is another issue. This is a very important step, but I do not want to go into it this morning, because it is a very technical matter. The passage, however, is important. Compared with my colleagues, we have decided, at this point in symbiosis, as our colleagues in the House have done, to abstain on this measure. Let's leave a line of credit open to the government. In fact, we leave it open to you, more than anything else to your person we hold responsible, so that on this law delegation you can get to write something that is really in favor of the country. We do not want to find ourselves, Minister, in an embarrassing situation, for you, for us and for the entire political and administrative system of the country, to have to stress all the times that a work is late, that there have been more reservations, that even exceed the auction amount and that we have auctions. You were the mayor, and I was the local administrator. But does it seem possible that we are the only country in the world where you have to contract for a work, having the financial coverage of one million euros to achieve it, and already knowing that that work at most will cost 600,000 euros because you will have a fall of 40%? But that's not possible! I can assure you that a person who works around Europe, if something like this happens, is called upon to answer where he was wrong, where the mistake is. I come to the point, to the thing that is most important to us, before I finish my speech. Minister in this blessed country, as is the case in the rest of Europe (since you are so European), we must learn to put the quality of the project at the centre of public work. We have the flower of polytechnics and universities in which we really form serious professionals (and I say it from direct experience, that little academic experience I could do): we have quality elements, which unfortunately are leaving. It is time to end it with situations such as integrated procurement, which is ignoble because it puts professionals under the yoke of companies that look exclusively at the economic issue and design becomes the last of the priorities. At the hearing I listened to representatives of the Railways saying that they would like to make an integrated contract even on the preliminary draft: on this I do not want to say otherwise the President throws me out of the Chamber, but it is something that is neither in heaven nor on earth. We have serious professionals, we do projects and we make sure that these professionals, as they do in the rest of Europe (where they look good and respond because they know how to design and do works like companies), are responsible for it, paying them obviously for what is right, and I do not say that to defend the category because it happens all over the world. Let's forget the usual negotiation done by lawyers, with all the good that I can want for colleagues who practice this noble profession, which is perhaps a little out of business and public works; let's leave this work to serious technicians and administrators, since there are and there must be more and more of them. On the basis of this vision that we want to keep alive, Minister, we will vote for an abstention, which in the Senate means voting against but the principle is political, in the hope that you really can correct the shot and write a law, through the delegation, worthy of this country, of this Parliament and especially of those who in Italy still know how to do serious things, with transparency, with judgment and method. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u13	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as Senator Langella has already argued, who has debated the subject in general, we welcome this measure, of course with all the reservations when it is delegated to the Government, because we hope it will be interpreted well, at a certain and rapid time (the times that Parliament has given), and we are sure that it will be a qualifying point of reform of an area that has high expectations. We, Minister, believe it is necessary to de-burocratise contracts. We cannot allow healthy businesses to be opposed by infiltrations and rotten apples (which may be there but without making any grass a bundle), and to generalize what should instead be done in a sectoral way to heal. We know that the issue of procurement and concessions is extremely sensitive and we know what and how many problems have arisen, as I said before, for healthy companies when faced with bureaucratic burdens and market distortions. Yes, because Legislative Decree No 267 of 2000, which adopted Law No 142 of 1990, has taken away concessions and contracts from politics, has given them to technicians, but we have seen that the results have not improved, indeed have significantly deteriorated. We are therefore aware of the problems of lack of transparency and corruption. On the latter point, I would like to point out that a further point of the measure is the institution at DAC (the National Anti-Corruption Authority which I believe is being abused because now nothing is being done in Italy that Canton does not want and nothing without turning to him and is exaggerating, before exaggerating in one sense and now exaggerating in the other) of a national register of members for the contracting committee of public contracts and concessions. These components will have to meet specific requirements and we hope that they will be technical rather than judicial, since being a magistrate is not, in our opinion, a requirement compatible with the transparency that deserves a notice and with a measure for the establishment of the contracting committee for public contracts and concessions. We therefore believe that some work has been done in both branches of Parliament in order to make clear to the Government the guidelines and criteria to be followed in the exercise of the delegation. We therefore deliver an important measure to the Government today. The ball now passes to the Commission, so our vote today is a vote of hope, in the sense that we hope that in the short term the Government and you, Minister, will adopt and complete the measure with the delegation in the sense of deburocratization. That's the key word, the only one that can get the country back together. We hope that we will not miss a minute more than the time strictly necessary to make this segment of reforms work as well. This is an important reform and I would like to thank the President of the Commission, Senator Matteoli, who has been able to sum up very well, with the hope that my Group will vote in favour. We realize that there are still problems open, I know that some members of my Group will criticize this measure slightly more than I have done. In our Group we have opened a broad debate and we have decided to give a favourable vote in the hope that the Government, in the implementation of the delegation, will really carry out a reform for the country in order to de-burocratize it and not to focus, yet, on various institutions, prerogatives that should be purely technical and not to hinder the procurement, concessions and development of the country. So the Group of Alleanza Popolare and Autonomie will vote in favour of this measure, Minister. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u16	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, my speech is rather articulate, so I shall confine myself to a few brief remarks on a number of important points and I would ask you to hand over the complete text to the documents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Among these points, surely there is a principle recognized in the presence of small and medium-sized enterprises, the principle of public interest, a novelty compared to the previous legislation, which instead aimed to enhance much more the great enterprise. All the activity is subject to a strict control of the DAC also through a qualification of the contracting stations. I know that the objective is essential in order to lead back to an efficient, transparent and also free from corruptive conditions, which have, unfortunately, clearly characterized the events of these years. The reduction of contracting stations is apparently a limitation of the autonomy of the various public institutions, but I believe that, instead, it is a system that allows to make more effective the action of the contracting stations, concentrating the professionalism that is indispensable so that the procurement of public works and public supplies is punctual and not generic, as often happens, leaving room for behaviors definitely questionable from many points of view. In this direction, the process of digitalisation of procedures for the award of public contracts and concession contracts is a decisive part of the objectives of simplification and harmonisation, first of all in relation to the principles of transparency, publicity and traceability of tendering procedures, with a view to effective action to combat corruption, which also contributes to the provision of an administrative system, regulated under the direction of the DAC, which identifies penalties in relation to non-reporting, which is made compulsory, of extortive and corrupting requests. The strengthening of the functions of the Authority on the basis also of powers of control, recommendation, of precautionary intervention, of deterrent and of sanctioning type is, in our opinion and - I believe, for its approach - in the opinion of the Government, a qualifying and indispensable point. We therefore fully agree with the principles and guiding criteria set out in the European directives on procurement which identify in the process of transparency and simplification of tendering procedures as one of the fundamental objectives of the delegation law. It is also essential to regain legal certainty and opportunities for access to businesses, with substantial progress in the efficiency of procurement procedures. The recent approval by the Autonomous Province of Bolzano of the provincial law on procurement is consistent with the new European directives. Digitisation of verification procedures, bureaucratic simplifications in order to ensure correct and effective flexibility, quality criteria, standard procedures paying particular attention to costs are the guiding principles and, at the same time, the objectives of the provincial law, which are now present in the national delegation law. Similarly, the Autonomous Province of Trento is close to adopting the provincial law. During the examination at the Senate at first reading, it was provided for the possibility of relying in house on concessions, expired or due, in which there is public control. These are criteria laid down in the European directive and now also transposed into our legal system to start a real infrastructure investment plan. In the specific case of the Brenner motorway, the custody in house has, since 1997, as objective the destination of part of the proceeds of that highway to the realization of the railway corridor of the Brenner. This introduced an innovative co-financing system to actually invest in TEN-T transport networks. In conclusion, Minister Delrio, ladies and gentlemen, this is a good law and consequently announces the favorable vote of the Autonomous Group, PSI, MAIE, with a warning, however, of fundamental importance: today we conclude a legislative path of great importance and of importance also media, but the substantial work is still to be done and it is the task of the members of the Government and of the Government as a whole, through the delegated decrees, to complete this work. In this regard, it is essential that the Government and, in particular, the Minister of Delegate watch carefully to ensure that the occult hands of the lobbyists concerned do not vanish the positive work carried out so far. In essence, what happens today, that in the legislation currently in force had been foreclosed and that, instead, came out of the door and came back from the window; for example with the framework agreements on hospital supplies (Mr. Minister, the issue of the supply of Italian public health is fundamental for the reduction of the cost of public expenditure), where they are simply described, through punctual prescriptions, the technical characteristics of the products that must be supplied, but then is entrusted to the medical operator the specific request of the product, through a mechanism that does not qualify a single winner of the supply contest, but qualifies them in ranking more than one, with differentiated prices. And we leave discretion to the user, with reasons that - frankly - very often are mere excuses for making questionable choices. It is therefore necessary to overcome the escamotage of multiple custody, which renders any attempt at transparency and simplification of procurement procedures. From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Minister, I call on the National Anti-Corruption Authority and the judiciary to address this issue today as well. In fact, we cannot wait for the law and decrees to come into force so that a great evil of our health system and of our public spending can be dealt with in a profound way. With this wish, Mr President, I shall end my speech by reminding you that too often we have been spectators, but also authors of laws that have represented simple Manzoni cries. We must overcome this phase of posters, cries and manifest laws. I therefore hope that, in this case, the turning point will be effective and place the relationship between the world and business action and public spending at a level of decency that in our country today does not have. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u19	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, on the occasion of the first passage to the Senate of the reform of the Code of Procurement we abstained from voting, because we knew that the path on delegation was not over, but open to the unrepeatable opportunity of an epochal change that we entrusted to the work of the Chamber of Deputies. On that occasion we pointed out that the initial text of the Government - mediocre, modest and generic - had been the subject of a real confrontation in the Commission of public works. In this respect, I would like to stress the positive contribution of Deputy Minister Nencini, who accompanied with intelligence the heavy work carried out during the first reading of the measure, which saw non-negligible improvements to the delegation. Therefore, I believe that we are faced with a formidable contradiction if we think that we could have worked together from the start on a real bill. It seemed clear that, by putting together the work done by the Commissions and the two Chambers, we could make a fundamental contribution to solemnly decree the end of the age of the objective law and create the conditions for a virtuous development movement. Our message was that a delegation law should have the utmost clarity and simplicity of a few rules respected without exception. In the meantime, some important progress has also been made in the international context in the reform of European public procurement. The European Commission has recently adopted the new single electronic document for public procurement with a view to reducing and standardising red tape, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises. The new single document will replace the current system with very different national features: in fact, while some Member States have introduced some forms of self-declaration of suitability, others require all interested parties to provide complete documentation proving it. The new single European formula will allow all companies to self-declare by electronic means their suitability and participate in the competition in relation to regulatory criteria and commercial requirements. Only the undertaking awarding the contract will have to submit all the necessary documentation. The reform directives will have to be adopted by the 28 Member States by next April. With the single document, all European companies will be able to participate in public procurement in the 28 countries of the European Union, regardless of the country in which they are based, thanks to the electronic simplification of all procedures. Member States, by October 2018, will therefore have to ensure that the public tendering system is fully web-based. Some of our amendments have also been tabled in this respect, because we must equip ourselves to meet a challenge to be assessed in a positive sense. It is no longer within our borders and has no longer, above all, the negative characteristics that have characterized this delicate and fundamental sector, sometimes leading to phenomena of terrible corruption, which are before everyone's eyes and which have made the media speak in recent years, until today. In this dynamic context, which is constantly evolving, we feel that we have made a contribution towards strengthening the system of certainty of rules and transparency, which must be opposed to the system of cumbersome and obsolete practices, and that corruption has for far too long had the opportunity to infiltrate. We are trying - also with the commitment of other political forces - also with this instrument to give coherence to the general and widespread desire for change, expressed above all by civil society with respect to the tentacular system of corruption in Italy. On too many occasions we have found ourselves quoting the motorway Salerno-Reggio Calabria, Mafia Capitale, the metro C of Rome, the Expo, the MOSE. I myself have on several occasions called for the intervention of President Cantone, as well as for the activation, together with other fellow senators, of committees of inquiry (e.g. on the ANAS, to mention a case of particular importance), and for a long-term plan of supervision and transparency on the whole body of public works. At this stage, on the subject of procurement we have at heart a priority battle, which calls us into question once again in defence of workers: this is the social clause, on which a debate has again opened in recent days, led to the extremes of the well-known Italian Manicheism that reduces the question to the question raised in the same majority: social clause or competition? The House has, in fact, included in the draft Community law the social clause to safeguard the workers of call centres, in fact creating a constraint for all public contracts in the service sector. The social clause requires a company awarded a public contract to take responsibility for the workers and employment contracts in force. We know how it went until today. Too many times we have found ourselves supporting workers put in the middle of a road by perverse business prestigious games, which have used the cumbersomeness of the procurement system to download to the workers the cost of opaque operations, to the limits and beyond - in some cases - of legality. This is precisely what we want to avoid with the social clause: races at the lowest level at the expense of employment and wages. For the president of the Senate's work committee, Senator Sacconi, and the Jujuslavorist Senator Ichino, this position - defending workers' rights - would, however, result in an obstacle to competition. In its report to the Commission, the Commission stressed that the clause would prevent increased productivity per head from being pursued through the application of new technologies and new forms of work organisation. The imposition of an obligation on the winning undertaking to absorb the employees of the previous contractor amounts to a substantial impediment to competition. Well, I say it clearly: we are not there! We support the position of the President of the Chamber's working committee, Mr Cesare Damiano, saying - without if and without but - that we must always ensure the continuity of the working relationship, otherwise competition is done on the shoulders of the weakest. Antitrust has raised the question of harmonization: in what terms should the re-absorbing of workers be compatible with the organisation of the successor undertaking and with the technical-organizational and labour requirements laid down in the new contract? How can it be argued that absorption can only be allowed after an assessment of compatibility with the enterprise organisation? What criteria will be used to assess this? According to opportunity and convenience? It is indisputable that an obligation cannot be imposed to fully re-absorb workers from previous contracts, without due consideration of the changed conditions of new contracts, of the social, market and entrepreneurial context, but it is necessary to include certainties for workers in order to ensure, in any case, that the company guarantees employment levels. It is no coincidence that 18,000 citizens, at the beginning of December, signed a petition to reaffirm that the rights are not being contracted. The message underlying this assessment cannot be tolerated, namely that the need to ensure more and more efficient procurement services - which, in the case of the public audience, means a decisive contribution to the spending review - must be downloaded to workers and their families. We think of it another way. I would also like to remind those who believe that workers today are a burden on competition that, if tomorrow's competitions are won by companies that are more efficient and attentive to people's rights, the labour market can only benefit from them, in terms of growth and harmonious development and, therefore, in terms of quality. In the society that we like to imagine the system of competition between organizations and companies is not only based on economic criteria, but also on the sharing and distribution of ethical and social values, with attention also to the fundamental environmental sustainability. That is why it is important to exclude from the procurement procedures companies which have violated their contractual obligations towards workers and, therefore, in some amendments we have included, particularly with regard to labour-intensive contracts, the clause on compliance with the provisions of the national contract, safety at the workplace, the environment and the territory. It is not on unscrupulous economic policies, which benefit from the weakening of the social state, that the network of financial relations and development of our country is rebuilt. Not to mention a politically very important fact, at least for us, that we still believe in the fundamental role of workers' organisations, of the union: the social clause would restore the right dignity to bargaining, which until now this Government would seem to have put at the door, as yet another obstacle to the labour market. I am not hiding a concern: in order to circumvent the social clause, companies could resort to the alternative of relocation of inputs. I therefore repeat the need to strengthen controls on the reference law in order to avoid such vile escamotage. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cervellini, please conclude. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). I'm gonna finish. At the time of the previous reading of the measure we have voted for an abstention, which we also confirm in this second passage in the Senate. As I recalled, our amendments were all systematically rejected, even when, both in the Commission and during the general debate in this House and during the examination of the amendments, we had a recognition of the goodness and reasonableness of our considerations and proposals. I must also mention the famous combined arrangement, whereby the government is facing these very delicate matches, together with Parliament - I am not just referring to the Senate, but starting from this House - which is fully aware, both from the Commission and from this House, and that not only is it up to the challenge and the proposal that has been put forward, but that it has been able to clearly qualify it: I remember the initial text. Now we are in front of these passages, together with Minister Delrio, whom I thank for the recent hearing... PRESIDENT. Senator, please conclude. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). I'm just asking you for 30 more seconds. On the subject of the privatization of the railways, for example, we see a schizophrenic attitude, also on the part of the Government itself, in the figures of different Ministers, objectively also according to the diversity of its task: being Minister of the economy or infrastructure and transport is certainly not the same thing and there are different priorities. The whole is based on stringed delegations and half pages, which can assume everything and its opposite, even on decisive aspects, to allow a harmonious and effective development of the Italy system. When we talk about railways, we talk about tens of billions of euros of public property and the possibility of public investment. Wronging a move or an address, believing that one must act mainly to repay the public debt, can make a difference on the possibilities of development, effectiveness and quality of our country system. That is why we reiterate our abstention vote, also in order to determine a different season, in relations between the Government, the majority and Parliament. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-AEcT Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u22	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, the People's Area Group will vote in favour of this measure, as has already been done in previous passages in the Senate and House Halls. I will limit myself to the fundamental points of the delegation that have convinced us most in the approach of this measure: the prohibition of the reliance on contracts by way of derogation from ordinary procedures, with the exception of civil protection emergencies; the provision of a discipline applicable to public works contracts, services and supplies the amounts of which are lower than the thresholds of Community importance; the facilitated access of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises through greater dissemination of information and an appropriate timing, aiming at technological and digital innovation and the interconnection of public administration; the provision of reordering and simplification of the specific legislation on contracts relating to cultural goods, including those of sponsorship; the definition of the requirements of economic, financial, technical, organisational and professional capacity that economic operators must possess in order to participate in the tendering procedures, bearing in mind the public interest to have the largest number of potential participants. Those capacity requirements shall be relevant and proportionate to the subject-matter of the contract. We also welcome the extension of the functions of the National Anti-Bribery Authority in the light of improved efficiency, support for the development of best practices, facilitation of the exchange of information between contracting and supervisory stations in the field of public procurement and concession contracts. The strengthening of the DAC's functions also includes powers of control, recommendation, precautionary intervention and sanctions, as well as the adoption of policy acts such as guidelines, standard notices and standard contracts. We also share the choices regarding the reduction of the documentary and economic burdens on the participants through the single European tender document or similar document prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructures for self-certification; the provision of the obligation for the contracting stations to publish on their website the financial report at the end of the execution of the contract; the introduction of measures to contain the use of changes in design in the course of work, which must be adequately justified, justified only by unforeseen and unforeseeable conditions and duly authorised by the sole party responsible for the procedure (RUP). It is also possible for the contracting authority to terminate the contract when changes exceed certain thresholds in relation to the original amount, with the guarantee of design quality and the responsibility of the designer in the event of design errors; the use, for the award of public contracts and concessions, of the criterion of the most economically advantageous offer; the provision, at the DAC, of a compulsory national register of the members of the selection boards of public contracts and concessions, which, for the purpose of registration, must have specific requirements of morality, competence and professionalism in the specific field to which the contract relates; the revision of the guidelines for the assignment of test assignments to employees belonging to the roles of the public administration and in the treatment of quiescence, with the prohibition of the assignment of the test assignment for public works contracts above the threshold, located in the region where the administration is situated; the revision of the current regulations for the use of work in the field of employment, with the obligation to indicate in detail the resources and the means provided, strengthening the instruments for verifying the requirements and resources of the premises to which the auxiliary company is assigned; the assessment of the social requirements with regard to the same level of environmental requirements, including the introduction of the supply, and the maintenance of the supply, and the supply of the equipment provided by means provided by means provided by means, including to the specific aspects of the specific aspects of the labour, including to the specific aspects of the specific aspects of the specific to the specific aspects of the labour. It is also envisaged in this delegation measure that we are going to approve that the start of the procedures to public evidence for the assignment of motorway concessions takes place at least twenty-four months before the expiry of those in existence, with prohibition of clauses and provisions of extension. Finally, there is the introduction of a specific discipline in the field of subcontracting, providing for the following obligations to be indicated in the tender: the parts of the contract of works that are intended to subcontract; a tern of names of subcontractors for each type of activity. We therefore consider this document of delegation an important step forward especially in the matter of the realization of the works that never as in this historical moment need certainties, regularity of the procedures, certainty of the times and transparency in the selections of the enterprises. It protects us from endless delays and disputes that see the paradoxically better organised businesses in their legal offices rather than in their technical offices, the ones they should be dealing with. We therefore consider this document of delegation absolutely indispensable to the development of our country and therefore we declare our vote in favour. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u23	I address a greeting, on behalf of the House, to the students and students of the Institute of Higher Education (Giuseppe Di Vittorio) in Ladispoli, in the province of Rome. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u26	SCIBONA (M5S). President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this text which this House is voting on today and which is trying to adopt definitively is at second reading in this House. We received an original text from the Government that was an empty box: many beautiful words, even articulated, but that gave a blank delegation to President Renzi and the Ministers. The 8th Senate Commission worked hard, despite political membership, with a view to the common good, upset the text and, in a collaborative atmosphere among all the Commissioners drew up a comprehensive guideline. Criteria, objectives and requirements for the implementation of the delegation were laid down. In short, it was possible, while obtaining a perfectible text, to produce a complete legislative act. At the final vote, our Group abstained, precisely because, while stressing that some passages were not consistent with our thinking, we recognized that progress had been made and that all political forces had been able to contribute to writing a law that had arrived on a sheet almost white, even if it "came" then against a delegation to the government for us unacceptable. It's not like that today, it won't be like that. The Senate that you want to dismantle, weaken and degrade, the Senate that had wisely reformed a government text, today sees the text of the amended procurement code back. The House has made a number of points worse, there has been an accentuated ambiguity and the reflection that was then carried out in the 8th Commission on public works and then in this House. Wide openings have been made to the dealers, once again derogating from laws and procedures, which sees us extremely opposed and I must also say tired of seeing. Every step of the way is rewarded by lobbyists who are often the cause of this country's mobility and spending. Then there is the false and misleading repeal of Law No. 443 of 2001, now defined bankrupt by almost all political forces: the famous objective law. We hope - and we have also deposited a text to this effect - that this law, defined as a criminal law by the President of the DAC, will finally be passed. But it must be overcome with concreteness, bringing the process of carrying out a work to the normal and ordinary procedure, the only guarantee of protection for all interested parties, first and foremost the Italian people. It seems to us that a way too simplistic has been taken to overcome this knot. Then the problem remains in the criterion set out in article 1, paragraph 1, letter ddd), where there is the commitment for companies to use also part of the workforce or staff at local level. Already at last reading I pointed out that this profile was critical; I had tabled an ad hoc amendment, then voted for only by myself. Well, today the Authority for the Guarantees in Communications is also right, given that with its opinion on the Commission's work, Protocol 72361 of 11 December 2015, it points out that these provisions are incompatible with freedom of competition and free economic initiative. The Authority also expressly states that: It should also be noted that the reference in the standard to the use of labour or personnel at local level is likely to conflict with the freedom of establishment guaranteed by Community law. Colleagues, representatives of the Government, do you want to incur yet another European sanction? Come on, it's okay. Attention, we are certainly not the advocates of globalisation (globalist policies are strangling us); you are. Coherence, colleagues! At first reading we had opened up credit to this majority, said shy words of satisfaction for the work done. Our hopes, but also the work of all of us senators, of all of the members of the 8th Commission, are broken by the changes made by the House of Deputies. We do not stand down, we re-emphasize the dignity of the Senate, which had confirmed itself as a House of High and Reflection, and we strongly reject this text, this patron sausage that came out in the other branch of Parliament. For all these reasons, I therefore announce the contrary vote of the 5 Star Movement to the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u29	Matteoli (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, already at first reading, in the explanation of vote on this draft delegation law, on 18 June 2015, I had the opportunity to explain how the measure, which aims to amend the procurement code, presented lights and shadows. Forza Italia believed then and still believes that the lights prevail over the shadows and will therefore vote in favour. In my capacity as President of the 8th Commission, who has examined the content of the measure, I would once again like to thank the members of the Commission itself, and in particular the rapporteurs, Esposito and Pagnoncelli, not only for their efforts, but for the ability to find a synthesis between various proposals in the field on a very complex, complicated and delicate subject. The Government, through Deputy Minister Nencini, has followed with commitment the entire process of examining the bill, manifesting a collaborative spirit aimed at finding solutions. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that the efforts of the Government and Parliament to simplify and simplify the procurement code, which over the years had gradually acquired an infinite number of rules which were not easy to read, should certainly be included among the positive aspects of the measure, as well as laying down certain provisions which, in several circumstances, have led to negative or even very negative effects: on all of them I recall the appointment of the Director of the work to the general contractor. Having passed this rule is a positive aspect. The provision has been modified in some parts by the House. I confess I preferred the text that came out of the Senate Commission. The House has not improved the text; in my opinion, it has worsened and weighed it down. A significant correction is that relating to the works managed in house by the motorway concessionaires. This is a highly debated issue; the change has been achieved by doubling from twelve to twenty-four months the time within which dealers will have to adapt to the obligation to award 80% of the works. We can agree or not on the new obligation on the part of the motorway dealers to race 80% of the work, but the doubling of the time-limits from twelve to twenty-four months, in order to adapt, in my opinion, will prevent any repercussions, at least on the work in progress. Another amendment concerns the question of appeals to the TAR, which is not simple and in any case very important. In an attempt to limit to the maximum the appeals and therefore the loss of time in the realization of the works, more stringent rules are laid down for the judge on the ineffectiveness of the contracts and the possibility of faster resolutions of the disputes relative to the exclusions of contest for lack of the requirements is introduced. Finally, with regard to certain shadows in the delegation law, the passage to the House does not seem to have changed the state of affairs. Nevertheless, the Senate, which is almost obtorto collo, due to the deadline imposed by Europe and which falls in April, when it will be necessary to transpose the EU directives on contracts and concessions, must say yes or no to this delegation law without being able to change it again. Finally, we have not removed our doubts, for example, about the so-called débat public. I repeat that we are not opposed to listening to the opinion of the citizens about the realization of the same, but the modalities of the information and the relative opinions will take too long, with the risk of extending in an unacceptable way the times of realization of the same and with the serious risk of blocking them, as moreover on several occasions in our country has already happened. Another aspect of concern is the aggregation of contracting stations. The debate and the debate in the Commission have been there, but they have not, in my opinion, made it possible to find a satisfactory solution. There is still a risk that the cuts in the number of contracting stations will not be appropriate, but that they will be able to act with the cleaver. There is no doubt that contracting stations have been greatly reduced, but perhaps more can be done. Then there is one issue that I think is crucial. We are finally passing a delegation law on very sensitive rules. Therefore the Government will have to approve the delegated decrees by which the detailed rules will be laid down. On these us of Forza Italia we reserve a careful examination. Our vote on these decrees will be very conditioned by the use that the Government will make of the delegation received from Parliament. Meanwhile, we believe that, even with doubts and doubts, the measure is useful in view of Italy's infrastructure, which is still far behind compared to other more advanced European countries. We therefore confirm our vote in favour, with all the concerns I have expressed. Of course, it is now up to the government to use the delegation in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u32	FILIPPI (PD). Madam President, Minister Delrio, ladies and gentlemen, the delegation measure that we will shortly approve is, without a shadow of a doubt, a fundamental part of the process of structural reforms that this Parliament and the Government have undertaken and are carrying out. It is a measure destined to be a real map of litmusol of the effectiveness and therefore of the quality of the reforming season that we are living. The reform of a code is never a matter of ordinary administration. As has been mentioned, the need to reform the procurement code stems from a dual need: on the one hand, to transpose the relevant innovations introduced in this area by Community directives and, on the other hand, to reorganise a discipline that has demonstrated particular suffering and criticality in its application. Criticism in terms of the productive efficiency and the realization effectiveness of public works, but also in not allowing an adequate contrast to corruptive phenomena that unfortunately, as the chronicles show, are widely diffused in our country, at every level and at any latitude! However, I have to say that the parliamentary debate, both in the classrooms and in the Commissions, has recorded an important level of awareness of the problems and I believe it has made a high contribution as a whole and a positive orientation to indicate the things that have not worked and how to remedy them. Common and shared was the demand for a code that was the result of a more simplified regulatory framework, consisting of clearer and more understandable rules and that does not allow systematic derogations from the transparency of procedures. Even for this, unfortunately, there was not much space in the information: there were no quarrels to highlight, rather there were to explain content and balanced positions. Common and shared was also the request that we should not retrace the past experience of a procurement regulation, a rule of application and of detail, that has known its approval almost four years after the primary norm of the code and with a not own strict definition of the scope of competences that the two instruments had instead to have, thus producing mix and conflictuality between the norms and not always unique interpretation. To this must surely be added the excessive redundancy of the norms, with its over six hundred articles and thousands of paragraphs, the continuous and innumerable changes and changes made that have made the code, in fact, a text consisting of normative stratifications, not always easy to manage and interpret. All this was not the result of chance, however! It must be said for consistency and for the sake of truth. It was rather the result of the combined arrangement between a political conflict based on two opposing conceptions that characterized the government action of the years behind us, on the one hand, and the structure of a pervasive and widespread system of binding other interests not necessarily lawful and relevant to public contracts and concessions. The codex was also one of the main objects and terrains of confrontation between two conceptions that faced each other. On the one hand, a concept that has given more close attention to procedures, a political phase that, through its action as a government, the daughter of a culture embodied with the objective law, had to foresee flash results, certainty of funding and selection of priorities. Unfortunately, the results are evidence today in everyone's eyes, as the Minister well recalled. On the other hand, a concept which reserved almost exclusive attention to the planning instruments and procedures for institutional consultation and which unfortunately ran out in them, finding in them also the reason for their exhaustion. A political season that was the daughter of concerted practices and which inspired the reform of Title V of our Constitutional Charter, and which we recognize today was probably an excessive forcing. The result produced was not, at least from my point of view, the prevalence or the affirmation of one conception over the other, but rather the tightening, the twist between two guidelines which did not know and conceived conciliation, but which instead carried out an exercise of the derogation from the rule for supreme reasons of state. It is behind us, but we remember well that season in which systematic recourse to civil protection and its imposing and coveted system of derogation provided for emergencies and disasters, with the corollary of fresh resources available and their maximum availability of employment. Civil Protection, a paradigm of a state that only in emergencies knew how to carry out its ordinary tasks. Civil Protection as an operating machine also to carry out the preparation and organization of major events! The results of that season are also sadly known. That season has closed - as we know - but the new one has not yet opened up, and the urgency of accepting the legislative provisions laid down in the Community directives requires us to make the transition as quickly as possible, even in order not to run into infringement procedures. This is a process of reform, based on a legislative determination aimed at pursuing two objectives that are inseparable for us: a greater guarantee in terms of legality, real embankment to the rampant corruption, and greater efficiency and effectiveness in the application of the rules for the better realization of works and services. The expected result, if I am allowed a bold synthesis, is to reconcile the greater discretion that the directives provide for the contracting stations, that we all want reduced and qualified, with a greater traceability of the application procedures in all the phases of the process of trust, from the project that must rediscover its own autonomous centrality, to the notice of competition, to the realization and the test. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the constructive criticism that has emerged in the debate, as I understand the more or less pronounced disappointment of some of my fellow Members with regard to a text which was considered to be better than the changes that have taken place in the House. Unfortunately, however, I do not believe that these misconceptions are understandable outside a parliamentary dynamic, and we felt that they should not result in further amendments to the text, in order to continue in a virtuous practice that incorporates the need for reforms in a framework of certain times. There is an undisputed merit, sometimes even ill-beared, that the President of the Council Renzi has undertaken, and that is to put the reform process in a defined and precise time frame, and to stick to that. Today, therefore, we approve in third reading and finally the draft law delegates to the Government whose exercise will end within the scheduled times and in compliance with those recalled. From today the second half of the game begins, which - as I have already said several times in the Commission - is the most important and decisive. This is the time when the rule really is written and it is the time when Parliament does not fail to exercise its sovereignty. Allow me to stress to this end that, in the parliamentary passage to the House, the aspect of the opinion that the competent parliamentary committees are obliged to express has been significantly strengthened by providing for a double passage: a sort of reinforced opinion, that is, able to judge the work of the Government also on the transposition of what will be the observations, the remarks and the conditions that will be contained in the opinion of the Chamber and Senate Commissions. This reform process, which has already experienced in this first phase a large and important contribution from Parliament to the definition of the draft law delegation - it is enough to seriously compare the initial text of the Government with the text now in approval - for us it does not end here. We believe that Parliament should not wait passively for the arrival of the code into the Commissions, but should instead accompany with initiatives to promote and urge the government's production work. And this is happening - let it be clear - not because this is a government under protection, far from it, as is well evident to all. If anything, it is in order to offer a common side against the pressing action of the lobbies that in recent years, when the power of politics is diminished, they have undoubtedly increased their power of influence, pervasive or not, on the legislator whoever it was, on the other hand not showing particular effectiveness. Even in the method carried out so far we consider this positive and innovative experience; an experience - we are convinced - that will probably also produce advanced forms of experimentation for our ordinamental culture. I am referring to the much-discussed soft law issue, which will be introduced with the aid of the DAC. On this invitation everyone to look at this novelty with greater benevolence and curiosity, bearing in mind an experience, like that of the Expo, where the contribution of this organism was decisive for a success that seemed initially compromised. It is for all these reasons and above all it is with the spirit that I have tried to show that the vote of our Group on a measure that much more than others is destined to mark the stage of this political reforming season, and probably also of the future one, can only be convincingly favorable. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u34	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u35	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, I am voting against my Group, and I regret it, highlighting the poverty of Senator Barani's speech, who declared the AL-A Group's vote in favour. I vote in dissent for exquisitely technical reasons, if you will. Article 1 (o) must be delegated in accordance with an unacceptable rate of generality and indetermineity. What does it mean, ladies and gentlemen, to provide for the allocation to the DAC of wider functions of promoting efficiency, supporting the development of best practices, including control powers? What does that mean? Recommendation? Does that mean precautionary surgery? Does that mean cleanse? Is it sanctioning? That is not known. But what is the content of these sanctions? You don't say that. What could be: financial penalties, interdicttive sanctions or police stations? Even in this case it's all a mystery. The same letter also provides for the possibility for the DAC to have guidelines, standard notices, standard contracts and other flexible regulatory instruments even with binding acts of effectiveness. Apart from the obvious oxymoron of the forecast of flexible binding regulatory instruments, we realize the immense power that is handed over to the DAC that will tell all the contracting stations, in an absurdly rigid and plastered way, how should a ban be made and a contract concluded? And what does flexible regulatory instruments mean in practice? I challenge anyone in this House to say, now and now, what content has the power that we are going to delegate first to the Government and then to the DAC. The letter (cc) gives the DAC, albeit in a surreptitious and indirect way, the power of control of the contracting commissions of all contracts, because of the compulsory national register of the members of the commission we know only today that it is a compulsory register and is held by the DAC, but who can be registered with it, with what cultural, professional and experience titles? As uncertain are the moral requirements needed to be registered and remain in the register. The only thing we know, when we are called upon to approve this measure, is that all this will not be established by the Government, with the exercise of legislative delegation, but directly by the DAC. Finally, Mr President, with a historical memory: this measure deprives the central administration and the peripheral administrations of extremely significant and delicate powers, entrusting them to a highly technical structure, far from the territories and communities to which the works are intended. A few years ago you will remember that the role that is being given to DAC today was attributed - for the truth more in public opinion than in substance - to the Civil Protection of Bertolaso, and we all know how it ended. The impression is that, regardless of the personal figure of President Cantone, even more organized and stable, there is the same risk of believing in a hypothetical demiurge to which to delegate the ordinary management of the entire sector of public works and services, with responsibility and frustration of the state and local groups that should instead I'll take care of it. It is for this reason, in summary, that today I vote against this measure which, to all intents and purposes, presents itself as a real delegation in white, also formal consecration of the surrender of politics to the myth of the efficiency and technical impartiality of the so-called independent authorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u36	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u37	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 1871, already approved by the House of Deputies. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether she intends to supplement it. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today was presented to the other branch of Parliament on 14 January 2014 and was approved, with broad agreement, on 14 April 2015, at first reading by the House of Deputies. It aims to ensure the membership of foreign minors resident in Italy at sports clubs belonging to... [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] As I said, the draft law in question aims to ensure the membership of foreign minors resident in Italy at sports clubs belonging to national federations, associated sports disciplines and sports promotion bodies with the same procedures as Italian citizens. Currently, the procedures for membership are unevenly defined by the statutes and regulations of national sports federations, associated sports disciplines and sports training bodies. There is therefore a need to remove the rules and procedures that prevent the membership of young people not in possession of Italian citizenship at the time of the transition from the basic sport to the competitive one, which for many of them means a moment of cesura, so as to allow him to continue the sport career undertaken. As I said before, these procedures are laid down by the statutes and regulations of sports federations, associated sports disciplines and sports training bodies on the basis of principles established by the CONI. To date, however, it is only the hockey and boxing federations that have fully transposed the principles established by the ICON through the adoption of internal rules. Therefore, the article 1, paragraph 1, of the measure under consideration provides that "I minori di anni 18 che non sono città italiane e che che sono regularmente residenti nel territorio nazionale at least from the completion of the tenth year of age may be registered with sports companies belonging to the national federations or associated disciplines or with associations and sports promotion agencies with the same procedures as for the membership of Italian citizens". According to the provisions of paragraph 2 of the same Article The membership referred to in paragraph 1 shall remain valid, after the completion of the eighteenth year of age, until the completion of the procedures for the acquisition of Italian citizenship by the persons who, using the conditions set out in Law No 91 of 5 February 1992, have submitted this request. Although these are two very simple provisions, with the definitive approval of this measure and the introduction of the so-called sports ius solo, the legislation of our State will be able to take a concrete step forward by adapting the order to democratic and inclusive principles, facilitating the uniformity of the procedures for the membership of young sportsmen and thus ensuring greater levels of supplementary continuity. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u39	Thank you, Senator Idem, and I apologise for the little attention paid by this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of the examination of this bill, in particular of the very important role played by sport and of the relationship between culture and the values it carries on. We all know that sport should guarantee the inclusion and equal opportunities of access to sports practices and, therefore, we must promote this principle of sport citizenship on national territory, guaranteeing access to membership and championships of all disciplines and levels to those who were born in Italy from foreign parents. We must believe that, if we are talking about sports citizenship, any citizen must be considered an Italian athlete. We are all aware that sport is a tool for preventing social and psychophysical discomfort and that it is very important for the formation of the person. Sport must be considered a right of all and access to sport must be guaranteed to all, especially to the least well-off and, therefore, at risk of marginalisation. Sporting combines and does not divide and culture is able to make us feel united to achieve otherwise unimaginable goals together. We also know that sport arouses emotions, has an easy-to-understand language and is capable of breaking down any racial barrier. The challenge to social integration is one of the issues of the near future and sport is placed, in the societies to come, as a means by which it is possible to combat all types of discrimination based on the origin, sex or any other personal circumstance, especially in the multicultural context, including situations of both physical and psychic disability. In this case, therefore, I mean sport as a context of experience of bonding, help, support, solidarity and responsibility. Sport also refers to the experience of others, to comparison, exchange and dialogue, which are key aspects of the approach to integration. Sport can be a fundamental field of experimentation for the subject in the socialization process and promotes a common sense of belonging and participation. We must say, however, that in the civil world there is also the uncontrolled hysteria with which we support and live the sport in our home. I am referring first of all to football, now reduced to a patient in need of massive doses of tranquilizers, but also to the constant hysterical gestures of players and the public who live the sporting event as a torture now unconscious, not to mention then the stupid racist choirs now subscribed to the football stadiums but also the basketball of ours, and however the constant aggression that fills the sport in the field and out. So then my memory goes to the rugby players, a sport - I don't want to raise it to the banner of anything, but to me personally gives some hope - in which there is a lot of competitive fury, almost to be scared to see and hear it. Those who have been near a rugby field know that the sounds, the noises of contacts are sometimes impressive. Yet, those furious men, obsessed with the oval ball and forced into a thousand difficult sporting rules, that a referee in the field always manages to enforce, are capable of self-control, of managing his own fury and of showing a competitive show worthy of this name. But rugby - for so many only folklore, comparable to a country festival, while for others a mystical discipline, reserved to a few elected - always gives us examples to which it is good to refer in order to understand the high sense of sports practice associated with social growth and civil commitment that stimulates in its practitioners, the examples are many in this field. I am referring to Casale Monferrato's rugby team Le Tre Rose, made up of 80% refugees: the Italian rugby Federation has decided to turn a blind eye to the regulation to allow those kids to have an opportunity for more social inclusion. Some of them have never taken hold of an oval ball - and this in the field is sometimes seen - but in rugby they can find a moment of redemption and, through sports practice, make known the values typical of this sport. His captain said that support and solidarity for comrades are undoubtedly characteristic traits of rugby and therefore was accepted the request of Le Tre Rose. Of course, the team has given up the possibility of promotion: even if it were to rank in the top positions, it would not dispute the playoffs to climb to Serie B, because, by regulation, a team cannot be composed of 80% foreigners. Another important example is Scampia Rugby. The idea was born from Salvio Esposito, a sports psychologist, who has been trying to carry out similar projects for years: all starts from the need to make the psychological growth potential of children effective. During the year more than 80 children were involved, and last season the team arrived fourth in the national C2 championship. The goal, in those parts, is not rugby seen as entertainment, but it is the opportunity to make a change of life for a group of young people who see nothing but a neighborhood of violence. Then I can think of another example: the rugby team The Bisonti, composed of the prisoners of Frosinone prison who, in 2013, was officially enrolled in the C-series championship, whose results were surprising for everyone. Everything comes from the belief that reintegration is possible, giving people a chance to demonstrate their willingness to start over. But why the oval ball? Why did they choose rugby? For the values on which it is based: a team sport, first of all, that favours the sociality and the value of the group; you don't win the games if you don't play all together; the rules that distinguish it are indisputable, as indisputable are the referee and the value of the opponents. Therefore, the team is also a symbol of integration; within the group there are several foreign boys, starting from the captain, who is a Nigerian. The project takes place in the high security department of the prison, where they find prisoners who belong to realities of different regions and who perhaps would never socialize. Also in this case the team also enjoys the support of the Italian Federation rugby, which allowed this team to register for the C series championship. The prison radically changed those boys and the project helped them escape from the monotony of every day, giving meaning to their days: so they support many of the prisoners who entered the team. So, rugby doesn't really matter who you are, but it does matter how you play it. Finally, I would like to mention one last example of integration: that of the Roosters team, a rugby formation at 7, which in March 2014 met the president of the Arcigay and decided to advertise the Arcigay on their shirts. The president of the Arcigay was quite amazed at the decision to go on the field with their rainbow shirts, but he was told that the world of rugby, unlike others, is open. Think that, internationally, the Australian National Team, one of the strongest in the world, has always supported campaigns against homophobia, becoming an example to imitate for young people and sportsmen who love this sport. I have focused a lot on rugby, but what I want to make clear is that the encounter of cultures through sport is fundamental and is also a means of helping integration. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u41	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss a very important draft law, which concerns not only sport and children, but all our civilization and society. In our minds and in our eyes are still imprinted the terrible images of the attacks of Paris and what better answer can we offer, if not to make a great step forward in the field of the integration of young people and the very young foreigners present in Italy? Today, in fact, the children born in Italy to foreign parents are one million and their number grows every year of about 80,000 units, while at the beginning of the nineties, when the first massive arrivals of immigrants began, every year from foreign parents were born 6,000 children. In twenty years, therefore, this percentage has increased from 1 to 15 percent of the new born: every six new born, today one is the son of foreigners and therefore he, too, is a foreigner. We are well aware that Parliament is carrying out, with courage and determination, an important reform, such as that of ius soli and ius culturae, on which I hope we will proceed with determination and speed, so as to end what has already been approved by my fellow Members. The rule we are debating today, on the other hand, aims to simplify and make identical, for all sports disciplines, the membership procedure with each federation, in order to eliminate any discrimination between Italian and non-Italian minors, as well as any unevenness between individual sports practices, thus bringing children, regularly resident in Italy at least from the tenth year of age, to their Italian peers. I think it can be said that, with the introduction of this rule, three different objectives are achieved, in favour of integration, of minors and, not least, of sport itself. Firstly, we must remember that sport has always been a vehicle for social and political messages, but above all, since the origins of the Olympic Games, it has been an instrument of peace and equality. Simplifying and guaranteeing all young people equal access to sports disciplines would remove what is now an important obstacle to the full integration of a minor foreigner. In the delicate field of coexistence, in an increasingly multi-ethnic society, feeling discriminated against, in any way, in the age of building one's own personal identity, does not facilitate integration and social cohesion, on the contrary, it can create unpleasant tensions, against which we must support every effort today. As the Council of the European Union also stressed, sport is a source and engine of social inclusion and is recognised as an excellent tool for the integration of minorities and groups at risk of social exclusion. Together with the school, in fact, sport acts as an important vehicle of integration, of sociality, of consolidation of personal identity and of the ability to relate with others. Competition and competition are important moments in the life of the person: they constitute a natural development useful to consolidate the relationship with the comrades, the ability to test oneself, personal identity, self-confidence, the management of victory and defeat. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which applies to all children under 18 years of age, also provides that States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that the child is effectively protected against any form of discrimination or sanction motivated by the social condition, activities, professed opinions or beliefs of his parents, legal representatives or family members. Each Member State must, therefore, guarantee the rights provided for in the Convention to any child present on its territory, irrespective of his or her nationality, nationality, regularity or absence of residence. And, among the rights recognised by the Convention, there is also the game, which is therefore raised to the rank of law that must be brought back to the person, even more so if it is children. Secondly, this rule is in favour of minors simply because sport is not only an instrument of integration and personal growth - as we have already said - but it can also be a professional path, and in this way we eliminate the annoying obstacles present today in the transition from amateuristic amateur activity to the competitive one. Moreover, the lack of attention to the needs of children in sports practice seems even more unjustified and anachronistic if compared to the needs of the market and sports professionalism, in which all limits and differences based on nationality have been removed, opening and facilitating access to professional sports activities for all. With this rule, therefore, we offer a further alternative to so many young people who, through sport, can build a better future, through their passion, without having to give up because of a bureaucratic or regulatory impediment. Finally, this rule will also be good for the world of Italian sport as a whole, widening the potential pool of practitioners, adding additional stimuli for the many young people who have as their main objective to excel in the discipline they practice. In view of the desirable Olympic Games of 2024 assigned to the city of Rome, this rule could guarantee Italy and the CONI a greater audience of practitioners from which to draw to give lustre and honor to our country. Ladies and gentlemen, it is with passion and conviction, therefore, that I support and support this rule, with the hope that it will be adopted without delay, to give a great signal of civilizations that our society really needs. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u44	Madam President, today we are debating a draft law which, on a superficial assessment, may appear to be less incisive than other measures before our examination these days, one of all the draft law which dictates new provisions on citizenship and which aims to change in a historical way the main criterion for the acquisition of Italian citizenship. We are talking about social inclusion and integration. In the year of the Holy Door can the subject be a viaticus, a rosary that finds correspondence in the themes that the Church of Pope Francis gives us and submits us to reflection? We Conservatives and Reformists are convinced of the opportunity for such reflection. The bill n. 1871 turns out to be a really pragmatic project in the context of the development of a program of provisions to concretely stimulate the integration of foreigners in our country, especially when it comes to minors, maybe born or resident in Italy for a long time. Sport, the sport practice in general, has always been one of the most effective keys to overcoming the most complex and remote cultural and social differences. At Olimpia, in fact, from the cities Greek state athletes with traditions and cultures peculiar and localistic, but with the idea of sublimating the most terrible war instincts in the agony of the race, the marathon, the javelin and archery. In particular, in modern pedagogy, non-professional sports activity stimulates the development of personality and the healthiest competition, the one based exclusively on talent, commitment and dedication and the use of new technologies. In team sports, the benefits of integration between players are naturally amplified by the need to develop strong skills in team work, to coordinate and support themselves in an indispensable team spirit. For these reasons, the measure in question supersedes far too uneven a discipline on the membership of foreign minors resident in Italy at sports clubs belonging to national federations. Although the procedures for membership are laid down by the statutes and regulations of national sports federations, associated sports disciplines and sports promotion agencies, on the basis of the principles established by the CONI, and although at present some national federations have already adopted provisions to equate foreign athletes born in Italy with Italian athletes, the more or less complex procedures provided for by each association or federation risk ensuring that young talents are in a position not to be able to progress from the basic activity to the competitive one for reasons related to the possession of citizenship. As a demonstration of the positive nature of this legislative intervention there was the totally serene process that characterized the approval of the provision to the Chamber of Deputies without modification and the examination of the same in the Upper Chamber, even here without need of amending interventions, to emphasize an uncommon and admirable identity of opinion among the members of the majority and the opposition on this issue. But this unanimity of intent will have to make us think, Madam President, when the Government and the majority are faced with the question of ius solo, resulting from the imposing, epochal and problematic migration exodus. We recommend proceeding cum wheat salt and with cognition of cause, avoiding to determine battles of avant-garde or rearguard so defined, from time to time to emphasize positions seemingly progressive or declared delegitimation tending to isolate the political opponent. Basically, we all take advantage of sports and sports values to rediscover the spirit of collaboration between majority and opposition without mess or even acrimony, otherwise the sports sun ius will prove the usual and provincial way of dealing with italic issues, the classic fig leaf that goes well if the foreigner is a champion (or potentially will be) and it is not good if the foreigner escapes from wars and famines. Therefore, I call for everyone's utmost attention to everything and maximum synthesis capacity in each of the parties involved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u45	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to say no, and I would ask you to attach to the proceedings of the sitting the text of my speech which will basically be answered during the explanation of vote by my colleague Mr Centinaio. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u46	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u47	He is registered to speak Senator Rossi Luciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u48	Madam President, two years ago, on 14 January 2014, Mr Molea presented this draft law to the House; in essence, I would like to point out that it has been two years, too many for such a sensitive subject, which, thank God, I am convinced today we will be able to define, giving these young people the attention they have certainly shown to deserve. There is no doubt that when we talk about sport and sports practices, we evoke the themes of solidarity, respect, tolerance, group spirit, breaking down barriers (today we are going to break down a barrier in membership, which lasted far too long) and then of inclusive rules: these are issues that demonstrate an extraordinary topicality and the need to give concreteness to these proposals. As I said, Mr Molea, who also means sports practices as an authoritative manager of a promotional body (which certainly plays an important role), presented the bill on 14 January 2014, and this was examined by the 7th Commission and approved at first reading by the Chamber of Deputies on 14 April 2015; in fact, almost a further year passed unnecessarily. The text aims to ensure the membership of foreign minors resident in Italy at sports clubs belonging to national sports federations, associated sports disciplines, sports promotion agencies, with the same procedures as Italian citizens. I believe that the measure we are going to vote on this day has a very noble meaning. Currently, the procedures for membership are clearly varied and laid down by the statutes of the different sports federations, promotional bodies and associated sports disciplines. It is clear that this creates confusion and even discrimination. In this regard, the explanatory report of the Act House 1949 points out that the rules and procedures that prevent the membership of young people who do not possess Italian citizenship at the time of the transition from basic to competitive sports activity, therefore at the time of an increase in the levels of sports performance. The same report points out that this may prevent young talents who are children of parents not living in the European Union but who are born or raised in Italy, who have started a sports career, in order to continue their activity for reasons related to the possession of citizenship. This limitation must be exceeded. The report also highlights the importance of social inclusion in non-professional sports. I would like to remind you that the 2007 White Paper on Sport specifies that sport promotes a common sense of belonging and participation and can therefore also be an important tool for integrating immigrants. It should also be noted that the Olympic Committee - the confederation of national sports federations - sets out the principles and regulations on the membership and use of foreign athletes, in order to promote the competitiveness of national teams, to safeguard the national sporting heritage and to protect, as it should be, the nurseries of the youth sectors. Article 1, paragraph 1, of the bill provides that minors under eighteen years of age who are not Italian citizens and who are regularly resident in the Italian territory, at least from the completion of the tenth year, may be registered with sports companies belonging to national federations or associated disciplines or promotion agencies, with the same procedures as for the membership of Italian citizens. It is about achieving a level of equity and equality that I find extremely important. At present some national federations have adopted provisions to equate foreign athletes born in Italy with Italian athletes. In particular, I liked very much the intervention of my colleague Maurizio Romani, who speaks of a discipline certainly deserving of attention as is rugby, which seems almost violent and which instead has demonstrated (as far as I am concerned there was no need for it) a great humanity, a great feeling, but also a great foresight on issues that at this moment concern not only sports activity (I congratulate you, Senator Maurizio Romani!). It should be emphasized that the Italian hockey federation has also become protagonist, since it was perhaps the first sports federation of the CONI that has been able to grasp of the necessities and determine of the concrete assumptions of responsibility in this field, so much so that in its circular of 17 June 2014, in the matter of membership in the sporting field, are defined Italian athletes who possess the citizenship of the Italian Republic and assimilated to those who, although not having Italian citizenship, are born in Italy. It may seem small, but I believe that this issue deserves attention from the Senate House, because I think it can also be useful on other issues, relating to inclusion, recognition and human rights, which will certainly see us as protagonists in the evolution of our work. With regard to the membership procedures established by other federations, the 43 federations are acting with distinction and diversity, because a main directive has been missing, which I am sure will come out of the Senate vote, after coming out so well - it is right that it is remembered - from the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to refer to Article 40 of the internal organizational norms of the Italian Football Federation. We do not speak, Senator Maurizio Romani, of rugby or federations that are unfairly defined as minor (perhaps due to their lesser knowledge and diffusion), but that are certainly exemplary for their value and their meaning: we speak instead of football, the discipline queen in Italy and that, at the same time, obliges us to reflections, considerations and deepenings not always positive, because it has become a show rather than a sport practice (but we will talk about this in another venue). I said that the Federcalcio, with specific regard to the membership of foreign footballers (Articles 40, paragraph 6, and 40-c of the internal organizational norms), provides that footballers resident in Italy who have never been registered for foreign federations can be registered. This also has a meaning and is not a subterfuge to include or to sign someone: in fact, it is expected that no one who has performed medium-high-level sports abroad can be given the same attention. Since I have to go on, I would like to ask the Presidency to hand over the full text of my speech to be annexed to the report, because there is really a lot to say, as there is much to be done. I would like to say that national sports federations and associated disciplines carry out sports activities in harmony with the deliberations of national federations and the CONI. What we are about to vote on has great significance. Over the next few days, President Malagò will accompany President Renzi to the president of the IOC Bach; I believe that arriving with a new law on such an important topic will give credit to our value and above all will also give help to the candidacy of Rome 2024, in which each of us - and I want to be among the first - will have to make useful and proactive protagonist. The national sports federations and the associated sports disciplines carry out the sport activity in harmony with the deliberations of the international federations and the CONI and are recognized by the National Council of the same CONI. In accordance with Articles 26 et seq. of the Statute of the CONI, associations which have for institutional purposes the promotion and organisation of motor and sporting activities, with recreational and training purposes, and which carry out their functions in accordance with the principles, rules and competences of our Olympic Committee, national sports federations and associated sports disciplines, are recognised as sports promotion bodies. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to and pay attention to a subject as important as the social function that sport must have. On this subject, Madam President, we are becoming protagonists. Despite the lack of attention shown to an issue that in my opinion deserves more attention, I believe that from now on we will record unity and sharing on the subject, no one excluded. This is a significant element - as the previous speaker reminded me - which has a meaning and value that must go far beyond the values and meanings of the sport topic limited to the membership of young people. This opens up new scenarios. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the rapporteur, Mrs Idem, who certainly does not need my presentation, is an Olympic. For me, who live above all on the values of sport, it has an absolute meaning and I believe it shows how well this Parliament and this House are working to arrive at a definition of the subject, which sees two years of delay (and someone still thinks that perfect bicameralism can still be supported by our country). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I authorize you to attach the full text of your speech to the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for wanting to bring this very useful and very important measure to the House and which allows our society to improve itself and to make progress. When a foreign child comes to our country he must have the opportunity to live in the best way. Living in the best way means going to school (but going to school is boring) and then also having the chance to play and do sports. This law will allow all federations to freely sign foreigners in their business. Therefore, this law will not only allow these children to carry out activities and live in better conditions, studying, playing, making sport - and therefore - integrating but will also allow society to benefit from it, because the more people integrate, the less problems they will face. I hope that the measure will be voted on today and that it will record a majority of votes as wide as possible: if it were adopted unanimously, it would be beautiful. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the world of sport, which goes on thanks to the work of tens of thousands of amateur leaders, who deepen their energies and their passion - sometimes even their money - to enable sports clubs to move forward. We know that the country's economic crisis has not a positive impact even in the field of sport, especially amateur sport. In fact, to devote time and money, time and money need to be there. People have less and less free time, because work is more and more complicated, and to anticipate the money of refunds to athletes is less and less easy because the quality of life for each of the Italian citizens, except for a few exceptions, is more complicated and difficult every day. I think that at a time when we approve such a law it is right to remember and acknowledge the value of sports volunteering, not only for sport, but for society. I will end by repeating my hope that the measure will be adopted immediately and thanking those who have presented it and worked on it and also all the sportsmen, who will, from this point of view, allow our society to improve. Sport has problems. We have the problem of drugs, and the children who are accompanied by parents who sometimes, instead of teaching them, need to learn from the children how to behave even on the stands. There are many problems but, however, the Italian sports movement makes a very positive contribution to society. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Caleo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u50	Senator Ferrara Elena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, sport is a fundamental experience for social inclusion and integration. How many times have we heard or have spoken - even this morning - this statement without having the awareness, with respect to some contexts, of being on the plane of pure theory. Today the time has come to clear the field not only from rhetoric, but from those regulatory obstacles that effectively make the goal out of the reach of the best champion of athletic, if foreign, at the moment when from such experience and circuit the same is excluded. So let's start again from the sport seen in its inclusive value. Just the day before yesterday the bicameral commission for children and adolescence expressed a positive opinion on the Fourth National Plan of Action and of interventions for the protection of rights and the development of subjects of evolutionary age. The plan has been approved by the National Observatory for Childhood and Adolescence, which, in identifying targeted actions in the field of child policies, strongly enhances the sporting experience because it recognizes them as inescapable opportunities for all persons of minor age, with particular attention to those who are disadvantaged due to disability, social extraction or foreign citizenship. This function of sport for all, so much shared in theory, must, however, deal with reality. There are still too many episodes of racism, marginalization and bullying that are consumed in our country, even in sport. How can we not remember, for example, the violence that resulted in parental brawl during the derby of the Juventus-Turin chicks? It was last November 8th and from the stands of a stadium in the province of Novara, racist epithets left against a black boy. Two considerations. The first is the following: even the world of sport, and certainly much already is done in this sense, must adopt the appropriate policies to secure its operating contexts from the discrimination and from all the distorted conduct that an exasperated competition can carry with it. The Ministry of Education, University and Research has always been active in important inclusion projects, of which I quote "Class Sports" (voluted by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, the MIUR and the CONI) which has developed a well-branched network structure to support motor activity and sport for all. The second consideration is that the national sports federations and the associated sports disciplines carry out the sport activity in harmony with the deliberations of the international federations and the CONI to which is entrusted the organization of the sporting activities on the national territory, according to the statute of 2014. The National Council lays down the principles and regulations on the membership and use of foreign athletes in order to promote the competitiveness of national teams, to safeguard national sporting heritage and to protect youth nurseries; nurseries which feed on a constructive relationship between federations, sports promotion bodies and the school system. In this sense, Law 107 of 2015 on education reform has strongly underlined the importance of motor and sports activities to be carried out in the school, worrying about methodological and didactic aspects, also through the strengthening of qualified staff in the field of first-level autonomy. In paragraph 7 (g) of Article 1, the rule recalls among the priority objectives of the reform the strengthening of motor disciplines and the development of behaviours inspired by a healthy lifestyle, with particular reference to nutrition, physical education and sport, and attention to the protection of the right to study of students practicing competitive sports activities. At the same time, the IV National Plan is in full harmony with the principles of the document. "The Italian Way to Intercultural School and the Integration of Foreign Pupils" of the National Observatory for the Integration of Foreign Pupils and for Intercultural Education established by the MIUR, in order to build an integrated and inclusive society, which pays attention to the need for a positive view of diversity and in which different cultural or linguistic skills are experienced as an enrichment or an opportunity in school and society. In this context I recall the Elios project - an Olympic energy against cyberbullying, carried out by the National Observatory for Bullying and Doping, in collaboration with Facebook and Telecom, which I closely follow with Senator Idem. Teamplay, values, self-awareness and positive models are just some of the contributions that sports can make in preventing and countering discriminatory bullying: elements in line with the bill of prevention and countering cyberbullying, which we have all approved in this House and waiting to be voted in the House. Of course, all this good work to which the federations and sports promotion agencies contribute with great motivation and energy expenditure, on the network with local authorities and local juvenile services, clashes with aspects, which are sometimes prevalent, of a bureaucratic nature. It is one of these formal rocks, where enthusiasm and talent have stranded, the case that we are discussing today in dealing with the legislative proposal received by the House. This measure which includes provisions to promote the integration of foreign minors resident in Italy by admission to sports clubs belonging to national federations, associated disciplines or sports promotion bodies is well placed in the more general framework of the reform of the law on citizenship and ius soli, already approved in the Chamber a few months ago. 11:46 a.m. (Ferrara Elena continues). It is a solo ius of sports membership, a sports citizenship that aims to overcome the uneven statutes and regulations of national federations of associated sports disciplines and sports promotion agencies, even in their local declinations. Removing obstacles to the membership of teenagers not in possession of Italian citizenship at the time of the transition from the basic sport to the competitive one means not only to stimulate the development of talents (of which all international conventions in favor of childhood and adolescence have already been mentioned), but also to give the possibility to continue the sport career undertaken. This is an aspect of absolute importance both in terms of the enhancement of the individual sportsman and in terms of the enrichment of the whole community. So much so that, for example, the Italian hockey Federation has already established in 2013 that athletes of non-Italian nationality, but born in Italy, are to be considered Italian to all effects for all events organized or authorized by the Federation. The legislative proposal under discussion provides that young people resident in Italy from the age of ten may be registered under the same procedures as Italian citizens. The membership remains valid even after the eighteenth year of age until the completion of the procedures for the acquisition of Italian citizenship according to the law. With this rule, bureaucratic obstacles are eliminated, perhaps simply because of backwardness or, and this seems more incomprehensible, because of social security reasons. Limiting the rights of girls and boys who are children of immigrants born or raised in Italy at the very moment when they face competitive sport at the age of thirteen is in the end an act of discrimination that, if anything, creates insecurity. An integrated society, capable of welcoming more cultures and nurturing the civic sense, a society that knows how to exploit the potential of the smaller people, all equally expression of rights according to the dictates of the European conventions and of our Constitution, will certainly be safer compared to the realities and communities ghettized. Sport-related emotions and values can help us look beyond appearances. Sharing commitment, effort, victories and defeats helps to train tomorrow's citizens against today's stereotypes. That is why the passing of this day is very important: these provisions relate, in fact, to the lives of families and young people much more than one can imagine. The bonds of citizenship cannot prevent a child, a teenager living in Italy and often immigrant of second generation, from exercising his talent, his passion, his dreams or more simply his desire to live with motor-sporting activity a context of social aggregation governed by a common objective. Otherwise we are faced with a deprivation capable of leaving the mark not only among the young excluded, but also in the rest of the group. Today the decision is left to the individual federations or sports associations, but with the vote that we will shortly be voting in this House, I hope for a very large majority, we can prevent any chance that some young swimmer, athlete, tennis player or karateka can stay out of the game. I therefore repeat all my support for the bill. I would like to congratulate the presenters, my colleague and rapporteur, Josefa Idem, and I would like to thank the President and my colleagues from the 7th Commission who welcomed the proposal for legislation, which was not actually amended when it came to the Commission. It is a real achievement in the field of foreign citizens' rights that grows in Italy and can also find employment opportunities in sport. A passage which deserves proper satisfaction in this House today. The approval can close the parliamentary process and make immediate the requirement of ius soli in sport. Although two years may seem too many, today can be an important day. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u52	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur. [[Brusio]] I would ask colleagues close to the Commission table, please, to be silent and to show a minimum of respect for the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u53	Mr President, first of all, in the course of the speeches made by my fellow Members, I have been asked some questions to which I would like to reply, but not without first thanking everyone for the time spent on this subject and for the deepening that has been given. I would like to stress one issue: this is not a measure that disguises the possibility of having an invasion of participations and registrations in national championships where today there are limits regarding high-level sport, the football market and that of professional volleyball and so on. This measure wants to give a chance to those who live, regularly resident, in Italy at least from the completion of the tenth year of age onwards; it means that for those who come to Italy and are resident in Italy this rule applies from the time they are nine years, six months and ten days; for those who come to Italy and are regularly resident - so has been interpreted this rule - from the tenth year of age plus two days this rule no longer applies. This, in order to counter any mechanism by which we intend to bring young people to Italy who will then have to feed professional championships. The second reason why we absolutely want to approve this measure is therefore to overcome a split in the curriculum of young foreigners fully integrated in Italy, because they go to school and attend other circles of young people: they, up to fourteen years old, can participate in the basic sports activity and, then, from the fourteen years onwards, the age in which the competitive activity takes place, can no longer participate. They are integrated and equal, but only up to fourteen years; from the fourteen years onwards they are no longer equal. Those who come to live in Italy will be regularly resident from the tenth year of age onwards and will participate in sports activities in everyday life as a member of society or other bodies will be able to continue to do so even from the fourteen to the eighteen years; from the eighteen years onwards it will be able to do so provided that the practice with which citizenship is required is already in progress. It is not a concept of multiculturality, but of integration. Integration means that we talk about the same things; let's make them the same. Therefore, I cannot support the amendment proposed by Senator Centinario (not even in his text 2), nor can I give an opinion in favour of the request to turn it into an agenda; in fact, in that way, there would be a principle that was interpreted by this measure: the principle of integration. When we talk about integration, we no longer talk about different things. Therefore, there is no need to make a distinction of quotas, of which, most probably, looking also at the quotas of foreigners resident in Italy, we will not even have to discuss. But it is a question of principle, because when we talk about integration we talk about things that are the same and not about things that are different. It is precisely this split that we want to overcome with this regulation, allowing young foreigners resident in Italy to be equal to others, not only up to fourteen years old but also after, until the completion of adulthood, so that there is continuity in this respect. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u54	Mr President, I will take a few minutes to express a real appreciation of the debate on this measure, despite its stringency. It has emerged with great clarity, as already happened in the Chamber of Deputies, the deep connection that binds the value of sport and, together with this value, the fact that sport can be an opportunity for everyone. This idea of the opportunity for all without discrimination was the very precise foundation laid at the basis of the bill under consideration, which, as Senator Carraro has well identified, is also the result of the sharing of a request coming from the amateur world and sports societies, which felt a discrasia that is in everyday life. It is in fact in the eyes of all the situation of a child who goes to elementary schools and participates in sports competitions that are normally made in societies even amateuristic: at the time of the competitive passage there was a sort of almost insurmountable wall, which appeared to the eyes of those who use sport not only as an element of integration, but as a tool for a greater quality and well-being of life. As some European studies indicate, sport should today be one of the parameters defining the state of well-being of an entire society. I would also like to draw your attention to the financial resources and attention which the Government has reserved for sport in the last law of stability. Faced with the discomfort of the outskirts and, also following the dramatic attacks in Paris, the globalization of discomfort, a theme arises for our attention our outskirts can be rebuilt and even embellished on the urban level, but to live a new reality they, like all the neighborhoods of each city, must have at their center spaces of greenery and air where it is possible to practice a physical activity. Having made possible, through the projects of the CONI, the construction of new sports fields, not only for the discipline of football, but for a plurality of disciplines, is therefore the testimony of the attention that the Government puts on the field today to keep together rights, but also values of integration that, starting from sport, can have an extraordinary function of coexistence between different cultures. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Caliendo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u55	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u56	Mr President, we have tabled a rewording of amendment 1.0.100, which we are also convinced of in the light of the debate that has just taken place in this House: the fear that we have expressed in the House about the introduction of a masked ius alone has become apparent in this debate. For this reason, we believe that the amendment tabled serves to protect our nurseries, because when the Italian national team does not get the results hoped for, the TV sports commentators always say that there are no nurseries, the Italian boys, the young people. With the amendment tabled, in its original wording, we asked that at least 70% of the children in our nursery should be of Italian nationality, remaining a 30% share for non-Italian children. We felt that this principle was the minimum necessary to be able to begin to reason. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Simeoni and Zin]] You are much more experienced than I am - alas, I am involved in tourism and not in sport - such as Senators Carraro and Marin, I have rightly said that the amendment could go against Community rules and we have therefore reworded it. As a result of the new wording, we call for 70% to be guaranteed to EU children, i.e. from the European Union and not just from Italy. We call on the House to vote in favour of our amendment, which calls for 70% of the young people of our nurseries to be made up of Community athletes and 30% of non-Community athletes. Integration is like this and not with the chatter we have heard so far. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Simeoni and Zin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u57	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u58	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u59	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u60	We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.0.100 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u63	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would just like to say to Mr Centinario, technically speaking, that while the hope that national nurseries will be strengthened, and therefore an agenda requesting such an increase could probably be accepted by everyone (and it would be sacrosanct), to approve an amendment of this kind can create the following technical problem: if a team of Afragola rather than Varese has five extra-Community players in its neighbourhood on the volleyball or basketball team - I am talking about children of eleven - how can we tell a child that he cannot play because there are not enough seats? [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Albertini and Liuzzi]] First of all, I would like to make it clear that the world of amateur sport demands this measure; it has been urged by the amateur movements of the various federations. Having said that, I think that if the League turned the amendment into an agenda to ask that Italian sport strengthen the nurseries with players who can play in the national (maybe instead of calling them community or non-EU you could just say "players usable by the national team," which is what we would like) it would be more generic, but it would be welcomed by everyone. The amendment is in danger of being technically difficult to implement. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u66	Rossi Luciano (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I agree with the comments already made by President Pescante and also with what President Carraro has just reminded us. I would like to remind you that it has been two years since this measure was tabled, which is why approving an amendment, friends of the League, in fact means putting this bill back to the House. Beyond the time problem, I also agree with the content that President Carraro wanted to represent. Rather, I would suggest that a strong and determined agenda be presented, giving substance to this bill, Mr President, but at the same time committing the Government to pay more attention to the problem. I conclude by reaffirming the importance of what the Undersecretary has said: the current Government, like the previous ones, has reserved deserved attention to the national sport, including also resources (100 million euros) for the installation of the suburbs and in the disadvantaged areas. This is an element of great positivity, which I believe deserves attention and also consideration, certainly my own. [[Applause from the AP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u67	It seems to me that I understood that the Undersecretary had an opinion which was also opposed to the transformation into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u70	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all, if this measure can be improved and - alas - it must go back to the House, who cares: let us send it back to the House, because if we do not vote on an amendment just because we then refer it to the other side, then we agree with the President of the Council when he says that perhaps it is better to have only one House. [[Comments of Senator Rossi Luciano]] This is your political idea, take it forward and you'll see where you end up, given the results of the polls. I give an answer to President Carraro: if the team of the village in question has five non-EU countries and can sign four, there is meritocracy: it will decide to sign the four who play best You can't sign everyone. [[Protests from the PD Group]] I am sorry, Mr President, but when you want to win you have to do so, otherwise we continue to play with the national team we have. Finally, we call for a simultaneous vote to be taken by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u71	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u74	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I think it is now clear what my vote will be. I just want to thank my colleague Senator Luciano Rossi, who said the right things. It is true that this is only the beginning of a process and, although there are aspects that need to be improved, to think of doing so by tabling amendments, it means reviewing this project in six years' time. We must also say that the encounter with the other is increasingly marked by fear and often leads to genuine manifestations of hatred and racism. Xenophobia is like a blindfold that closes its eyes to culture, preventing it from seeing what is beyond and preventing it from continuing to evolve. For me, culture is constantly becoming and needs and nourishes itself of diversity for its evolution. Migrants, therefore, should not be considered as representatives of a culture, but as representatives of a social project of emancipation, and this must also apply to our sport. If we have migrants who play better than our boys, why not play them? If there are five non-EU children on a team, I am not saying that all five will be on the first team, but it is not acceptable that they cannot be signed because there are rules that require them to be kept out. Personally I can say that, for my inability to play football, several times I was rejected by various formations and I was always very bad, but in the end I was lucky enough to be accepted into the world of rugby, in which they looked much less at my initial skills, but they integrated me much better. Returning to the initial speech, we must see sport as a meeting place par excellence, where differences become a wealth and where the clandestine, foreign and migrant words cease to have a meaning and, in the middle of the field, we are only players. It is true that our teams should also have the goal of bringing players to the national level, but it is equally true that much of our sport is amateuristic and we will have to begin to commit ourselves to giving funds and resources especially to those who do sports and run small companies, for the pleasure of having our children play and to make sure that, even if a person, at 14 or 15, is not able to make agonism, it is still a guy who, simply for a reason of health, must not stop doing any sport, because it is not accepted anywhere, to place himself in front of the computer to eat fries. So I have to say that, on the basis of this assumption, the social condition of the immigrant is characterized by a situation of weakness, which must be removed, an immigration policy cannot fail to promote and support initiatives designed to allow immigrants to acquire knowledge and tools to interact in an equal position. Sport is a powerful factor of dialogue and integration, it is a universal language, which can greatly contribute to strengthening and coloring the links between people and peoples. In a country like Italy, where the problem of immigration is relatively new, adopting an approach that makes use of sport can be a stimulating and innovative aspect and I, who am a supporter of values - not at all at this time I am in Italy of Values - declare my vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u77	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, I would like to remind you, in the light of the debate that has taken place so far in this House, that in yesterday's edition of the Corriere della Sera, the integration of foreigners into the West was given great prominence. Integration is possible, according to a full-bodied intervention of the physicist Carlo Rovelli, if given by laws that median between multiple cultures. For the historian Ernesto Galli della Loggia, however, that multiculturalism lives only in the polished and comfortable world of political correctness. Well, between these two different options on the subject, although I summarized for space needs, between enthusiasm and pessimism, between prophetic visions and pragmatism, dictated by the decisions, the next debate on the ius soli and, therefore, on the acquisition of Italian citizenship will take place. With regard to today's measure, the Group of Conservatives and Reformists votes in favour because, in the reasons also for detail provided so far, for example, by the dear Senator Carraro, from the top of his experience, there are the real reasons and the ratio of this measure. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u80	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, for the reasons I gave during my previous speech, we believe that this is the first step in what we saw in the House of Members, that is to say alone. This is a lone sport ius - it has been said by some colleagues - and it is something that we are fighting and on which we totally disagree. We also think that, in the light of the amendment that you have rejected, once again those who will get involved and those who will beat us will be the Italian children, especially those in the peripheral areas. We believe that our nurseries should not grow with these measures and, as a result, our vote will be proudly opposed. [[Applause from Senator Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u83	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we in the Left Ecology and Freedom and most of the Mixed Group will vote in favour of this bill because, when it comes to extending rights, we are obviously there, even if we are talking here about minimal intervention. As has already been said in so many interventions, it is certainly important to introduce the ius soli sport; it is important to have accompanied the recognition of the company sports card also the possibility of being able to participate in the national category selections, the associated disciplines of bodies and associations of sport promotion, fact - as has been said - that it was not for nothing taken and that it could certainly create other reasons for discrimination. However, we would like to point out that a problem remains open for all foreign minors without residence. The law, in fact, provides residence among the requirements to have the ius soli sport, but we would like to remember that many migrants, whole families and children included, have difficulty obtaining certificates of residence because they often live in barracks or apartments for which the Italian owners often refuse to make regular contracts. In addition, the time to obtain residence is long and often lives in community. The youngest migrant who is in this situation must be able to elect - I also submit it to the Government - as a home - this is already provided - the address of the sports club to which he is registered in place of his residence. This law is certainly important, as has been said, and gives great recognition to the role of sport considered as an important instrument of social inclusion and the fight against discrimination. We would like, however, once again to stress that we are in the field of reforms in the middle, of which this Government is particularly experienced, with the famous laws of the "ni." We approve this draft law today, but in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the text of the law on the ius soli, on the right of citizenship of those born in Italy and not only for those who can or want to do sport is still in place. But history in these days has clearly revealed the priorities of this Government and this majority: the destruction of our Constitution and the reduction of democracy in the first place. The rights can wait, and this happens both if we talk about civil unions and if we talk about ius soli. With the approval of this law we will find ourselves faced with the paradox of having sitting in the same class children and girls, boys and girls born in Italy by migrant parents, who will not have citizenship simply because they will not play sports or will not be enrolled or registered to any sports society; children and girls, boys and girls who, although in the same conditions as others, will have the right to ius soli, because they attend and are members of sports clubs. I tell all of us, then, to be careful to play the fanfare immediately and to speak of an act of civilization. The real act of civilization will be the approval of a serious law on citizenship and citizenship of those born in Italy. A law on full citizenship, yes, will be a concrete act to put an end to a real discriminatory injustice. Well - therefore - this law, but we must be aware that the real work for the recognition of citizenship to those born in Italy is everything to be done and it becomes urgent if we do not want ourselves, even in the positive intention of this law, to be discriminatory. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u86	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the measure we are examining is in itself a simple measure, but it has given rise to a broad debate, from which many of the aspects for which it is shared have emerged. In all the interventions, one common aspect emerged: the recognition of the high educational and social value of sport and the important instrument of integration it represents. Beyond simplicity, the high value of the measure is recognized. The bill addresses the issues of access to competitive sport for children and young people without Italian citizenship, with the aim of making the regulations of individual sports federations and promotional bodies homogeneous. In the absence of precise rules of a general nature, the individual federations and some bodies have been oriented in a different way. The various federations, with their respective sectors for youth and school activity, govern and organize, for technical, educational and social purposes, the activity of children and young people of normal age between the eight / ten years and the sixteen to eighteen years; the aim of the activity is the promotion of practice, but also of the competitive practice that constitutes the end and the culmination of sports practice. In particular, it is the football federation that, also thanks to the wide spread of this sport, has addressed the problem, creating ways of accessing the membership, but also other federations have moved. However, we find ourselves in a situation that is not homogeneous; first of all it is evident the need to create a new regulation that allows the large number of children of immigrants present in Italy, and very often born in Italy, to participate in sports activities in the same way as the Italian peers. It is necessary to review the norm that creates differentiations that are experienced by a child or by a boy with enormous dissatisfaction and anger as absurd and unjustified: because I who was born in Italy, I go to school and speak Italian, I cannot carry out competitive activities like my peers? There are many problems to be addressed, but the solutions are not difficult to identify. This bill goes in the direction of solving these problems. An effort must be made to eliminate discrimination to date, not forgetting that young people born in Italy and without Italian nationality will be Italian, if they wish, at the completion of the age. It is not to be forgotten, then, the strong educational and social value of sport, which accustomed to the respect of the opponent and the rules of sport, but prepares for the respect of the rules of life and social rules. From this point of view, the practice of sport is a formidable tool for social integration. Even in normal school programming, the spread of sports practice is now considered a fundamental activity for the strong educational connotation. For these reasons, the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u89	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, the M5S Group welcomed the draft law in question, because the membership procedures laid down in the statutes and regulations of national sports federations, associated sports disciplines and sports promotion bodies on the basis of the principles established by the ICON, do not currently allow foreign children to sign up in Italy and participate in competitive activities. However, we can point out that rules need to be established, because although these procedures prevent the membership of young people who do not possess Italian citizenship in the transition from basic to competitive sport, it is true that this integration risks not fully restoring the need transmitted by this bill. I mean that we consider it right and proper to put in place integration at the level of sport, because it is the right way to create real integration among young people. It is precisely within sports societies that our young people experience full integration, where the difference in cultures becomes really minimal, because sport manages to overcome any discomfort, whether cultural or social, so it is a reality absolutely to be valorized. However, we are concerned that the norm refers to the year of age of children, whereas it would have been more correct to refer to the year of stay in Italy with their families, to the residence of families, and not only to the year of age of the child. We believe that intervention is correct and we will vote in favour of the measure, but we would like to stress that there may be a danger that this integration will somehow be confused or transformed into a kind of market, which would then sink into the full validity of the measure and would also create an unfair condition within our youth nurseries, and this has nothing to do with the positive effects of this rule. Therefore, while waiting to verify that the rule is not being used in this respect, we would like to stress the dangers, as described by the rule for the inclusion of these foreign minors. I announce the M5S Group's vote in favour, as did the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u92	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to vote on and which we have discussed is a measure that is being asked of us by the world of sport; that is the starting point. The world of sport has no political color; I suggest this reflection to all those who, in voting on this measure, seek or have tried to color the measure itself. The world of sport is not labelled. As Franco Carraro correctly recalled, the world of sport is the largest voluntary association that exists in our country. It consists of executives, former parents and former athletes, who take time away from their families, their lives and their work and earn absolutely nothing. The amateur sports clubs throughout our country live with the contributions and registrations of managers and advisors, who are families and parents who go to support and support their children. I therefore believe that this measure must first be seen in this respect: the world of sport is asking us to do so, that is, the largest sector of volunteering. And why are you asking us that? In this House, Josefa Idem and myself were lucky enough to win some Olympic medals. And how did we win the Olympics? Maybe we put on something personal, but we have grown, since we are ten years old, in those amateur societies, those societies that are voluntary (which I was talking about before), in which you have the luck, the desire and the pleasure to measure yourself with guys sometimes better and sometimes less good than you. So the competition is positive, it's learning to be together, to win together. Sometimes it's harder to win than to lose, in a locker room of kids. But all this is the great teaching that the world of sport brings to all of us. It is a meritocrat world, the only one in which we all start from the same line. Whoever goes running, will win the best and fastest child; the same is true for those who take a sabre or a paddle, for those who shoot at flight, for those who throw the weight. In any sport discipline, no matter what your name is, where you come from and what the social class you represent (as long as they still exist), it matters who is better, who engages the most and who trains. Thus you learn to respect your opponent, in a world where you have no enemies, but where there are opponents with whom you compete, who share with you, even at the highest level (the Olympic level), the same passion and therefore respect. What are we voting on today? What is asked of us by the world of sport? We are asked that those who live in this country and are enrolled in a sports society in this country can compete regardless of color, religion and nationality. Why? We are not voting on nationality - I tell colleagues - and we are not voting on selections for the blue jersey, the blue jersey that I put on my skin, participating in the Olympic Games. I was lucky enough to bring the Olympic flag and represent my country at the closing ceremony of an edition of the Olympic Games. We'll never take that shirt off again. We are not talking about that; we are not talking about citizenship. Those who try to color this provision in this way make a serious mistake. We're talking about kids, integration, who goes to school. What does a kid do when he's done going to school? What do the children of all who are here do? They're members of a sports club. This is the integration that our country can do. Other aspects are not covered by this measure and really concern politics. We will certainly not have any common ideas about them. Indeed, we will probably have completely different ideas. Do we want to include them in this measure? I do not think that is the case, because it would become a clash between centre-right and centre-left, which does not represent the spirit of this measure, which is being asked of us by the CONI and the federations. Here we are talking about true integration, which we are already trying to make an effort to have in school, as in sport. It is not about citizenship, it is not about the selection for the blue jersey. The blue shirt concerns Italian citizens. We represent our country, when we go to the Olympics, and we do it in a proud and serene way. Here we are talking about an additional mechanism that serves sport, society and families. Sporting is good, it is healthy and it is right to be able to participate. When you practice all year round, it's only fair that you can compete. This is what we are talking about, and that is why the Forza Italia Group announces its positive vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Rossi Luciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u95	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today, by making the arrangements for the membership of foreign minors resident in Italy equivalent to the procedures for the membership of Italian girls and children, by our vote we introduce a principle of civilization into our system and we recognize sport as the high educational value and social promotion that belongs to it. We all know that it is through the game that children can learn the best about compliance with the rules. It is in sport that the values of Olympianism, that is, the ability to win or lose always respecting the opponent, in a fair competition, are fundamental factors for the growth and development of each child and child. Sport is a powerful instrument of friendship, brotherhood and inclusion. It is also for this reason that President Renzi, after the tragic events of Paris, and in a moment of serious international crisis, invested not only one billion in the extension of the 80 euros to the law enforcement and the best equipment of those who guarantee the safety of citizens, but also one billion euros in the improvement of urban suburbs to educational measures. Because with the 500 million dedicated to the outskirts of metropolitan areas, where there is discomfort, poverty and marginalization, can be born a place of culture and aggregation, a gym, or a basketball field, where grow together and, through the game, break down the wall of mistrust. This for us is the first step that this Parliament takes, and I want to say it with great serenity to Senator Centinario, towards a true recognition of the rights of those who grow in our country. The next steps will be the ius soli e lo ius culturae because you see, Senator Centinario, it is not that, when it comes to paying taxes or paying our pensions, foreign citizens are all good, but when it comes to playing together, as you requested earlier, instead they serve quotas. [[Applause from Senators Ferrara Elena and Idem.]] This is the first government, in fact, that invests in motor education for all children and girls in our schools. Thanks to the good school, in fact, we have included the master specialist in motor education also in primary school. Therefore, the next step will be the attribution of Italian citizenship according to the principles of ius soli and ius culturae, so that all children and girls can play in our country together and enjoy the same rights. I thank, as Senator Carraro did just now, all those who are engaged in the world of sport, amateur associations, sports promotion agencies, who, thanks to their generous free commitment and their work, make many girls and children grow and play in our country, making them really understand what brotherhood is, and making grow, thanks to sport, a true culture of peace. It is with great conviction that we are taking this first step today, to carry out an even more important one shortly, with the ius soli. The PD Group will therefore vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC). Ironic applause from Senator Centinario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u98	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Mr President, if I am not mistaken, my Group has not been able to speak in an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But no member of your Group has indicated that he wants to intervene. MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Mr President, there must have been a misunderstanding. I therefore ask you to speak for an explanation of vote for a few seconds. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). In line with the guidelines of the members of the Group, I would simply like to vote in favour, given the nature of the powerful instrument of sport and social integration which this measure has. However, I would like to remind everyone of one point, because otherwise one becomes the hostage of a sort of parliamentary fiction: sports legislation, often and willingly, by its nature is legislation by way of derogation. And this measure expresses the typical mechanisms of a derogation legislation, so it has nothing to do with anticipation or similar ius soli in sport. My colleague Marin di Forza Italia is right and well founded: the two things are not only not comparable, but if they come together they create further problems for the world of sport. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u101	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u102	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u105	SIMONI (Mist). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Cologne, on the night of 31 December, a thousand men attacked an indefinite number of women in a public place and subjected them to sexual harassment. The action was probably also organized. These are shocking, unacceptable events that alter our daily lives and that we cannot and must not underestimate. In addition, these events have also occurred in other cities: sexual assaults have been reported in Zurich, Hamburg, Stuttgart to Helsinki, Finland. It is probably not a matter of spontaneous facts, but of concerted actions. In the face of all this, what should European women do? Give up the achievements of civilizations so far achieved? Take a thousand steps back from their rights in society instead of making those many steps forward that have not yet been taken? This is what has been advised by the German authorities: to keep at a safe distance from foreign-looking people. Or more: don't assume in public attitudes that can be misunderstood by people of other cultures. But then must we adapt to the culture of others and give up the achievements that women have achieved with years and years of very hard struggles? Do we have to cover for ourselves? The culprits of the events in Cologne are men from societies in which males have a predominant role with regard to women, and they are granted many privileges among which to dispose at will of women's bodies. That is no longer the case in Europe. Our society no longer tolerates the arrogance of one man over another living being; we also defend animals against abuse and violence. Women in Europe have fought hard since 1969 with feminist movements to achieve better conditions in the workplace, social recognition of family management, divorce and abortion. These are our values, our conquests of civilization, and no one has to take them away from us. If our governments are not able to guarantee their citizens by ensuring peaceful, civil and respectful coexistence within their territories, then they must rethink migration policies, they must admit that they have failed, because it is unthinkable for a European woman to no longer be able to leave home alone, when she believes best, at any time of day or night. So it's also time to stop talking about racism who rebels against it. The duty of governments is to govern and this phenomenon is not governed. We can't just welcome. We must integrate, but we must also turn away those who refuse to accept our civilization. And now I want to address the young women who are the future of this nation. They will be raising their children with the values of respect for freedom conquered over time. Do not be influenced by sexist behavior in jobs, on roads and in the family. Fight for the rights you have and for those you still have to win. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Di Pietro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u108	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I should like briefly to ask, as other Members have already done, for the rapid inclusion on the agenda of the debate on the end-of-life measure. We know that there are two draft laws on the subject - my own, among other things, takes up the proposed law of popular initiative of the association Luca Coscioni - but the discussion must not necessarily serve to impose a point of view, as to talk about it. This is the most important thing, because the absence of legislation has very serious consequences for the lives and rights of people and because, dealing with many issues that may not be so important and fundamental, we may end up moving forward and moving more significant issues over time. The subject has been on Parliament's agenda for 35 years, but we can never get to a serious debate, especially because rights are the driving force behind development. If we do not realize this - there are data which confirm this - that without rights there is neither economic nor therefore social development, we probably lag behind. The last reason, no less important, is the question of the importance of Parliament's role. We are becoming a huge body for ratifying government decisions, and this is one of the few qualifying issues that could really make sense of the public debate that is taking place in Parliament. Since I understand that recently the House Leaders have decided to schedule this issue by May, it would be a good act on the part of the Senate not to lag behind and anticipate a debate in a short time on these issues that are fundamental for the whole country. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u111	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to speak out in order to denounce the enormous inconvenience that the commuters of the Palo del Colle-Bari railway line live in Puglia every day. As reported in Antonio Loconte's article on "Il Quotidiano Italiano Bari," the new trains of the FAL (Applo-Lucane Railways) - so praised by the Apulian governor Michele Emiliano in a recent press conference with the managers of the public company - are absolutely inadequate for the ordinary needs of citizens, who ask the public authorities competent normal services able to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of people. The inability and indifference of the ruling classes, of the young people of government policy, instead force mothers and fathers of the family to endure humiliating hardships in order to be able to go to the workplace every day. Even trains without toilets, crowded with people and with endless and meaningless stops in intermediate stations. In short, a real shame. A further example of the inability of this political class of government. Beyond the disinformation campaigns and the shameful exploitation of the Fourth case, citizens know well what the PD is capable of or better than what this false and hypocritical party is capable of, at national level with Renzi and in Puglia with Michele Emiliano. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u114	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I am speaking in order to bring to the attention of all Members of this House the draft law on combating homophobia and transphobia, in particular the Senate Act 1052, approved by the House of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of several draft own-initiative laws by some Members such as Scalfarotto and others. The draft law in question is based in the 2nd Commission. I am referring in particular to the fact that the process of examining the whole of the measure we are talking about was suspended in April 2014 following the provision of an amending proposal, requested by Senator Lumia. Consequently, in the light of the debate, the vote on amendment 1.25 (text 2) as well as the follow-up to the joint debate was postponed to a subsequent sitting. This intervention, therefore, is based on the urgent need for information and dissemination of culture and respect for the rights of homosexuals and transsexuals in our country. The episodes of homophobia and transphobia make it necessary, as urgent, to address a problem that has long cried for help and that has always been postponed in these classrooms. Homophobia and transphobia are not new phenomena; in homophobic and transphobic violence and discrimination the peculiarity of the sexual orientation of the victim, that is, the homosexual being or the transsexual being, are not neutral data compared to the crime of which, indeed, constitute the foundation, the motivation and, in a technical sense, the motive. At the same time, attention is also paid to the perpetrator of the crime itself, who is in a subjective state of contempt and hatred over the victim. Therefore, in order to combat crimes motivated by sexual stigma, with particular reference to homosexuals and transsexuals, it is considered more effective, compared to the mere introduction of an aggravating circumstance, to provide for the extension of the offences punished by the Law Mancino-Reale also to discrimination based on the sexual orientation or on the gender identity of the victim, as provided for in numerous legislative proposals already filed in Parliament in previous legislatures. In view of these considerations, I urge the Parliament and the competent Commissions to ensure that the draft law in question, with the appropriate supplementary and alternative amendments, can become, as soon as possible, a law in the true sense of the word. Another thing, surely, could help: the discussion of the bill on civil unions. It would be a great step forward in the fight against homophobia, as widening rights also means removing differences and fears. I therefore urge you not to change the date that has already been set, on the 28th of this month, not to postpone it further and to find a solution to bring a bill such as the one on civil unions, which is really important. [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u117	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, with this speech I would like to draw attention to three questions which deal with the same subject, which have not yet been answered. I am the 3-02055, addressed to the Minister of Defence, the 4-04259, addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, and a previous one, October 2014, the 3-01355 In short, are three Italian citizens who disappeared on July 27, 2014 during a fishing trip in the area of Simeri Crichi in the province of Catanzaro. The family members of these people did not receive any attention from Parliament, except a letter from the Minister of Defence Pinotti who, requested that research be carried out immediately by means of which the Navy has certainly provided, replied that there were investigations in progress and that, therefore, it was not within its competence. Well, in March 2015, the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Catanzaro made it clear that there is no obstacle to carrying out this research; since then nothingness, nothingness. Faced with certain similar situations that occur in Italy (I am referring to the research that has been done for the recovery of the boat of immigrants sunk some time ago in Sicily, which is about 350 meters deep), these family members wonder: why double standards? Why in that case did the Navy immediately activate itself in recovering - rightly - the bodies of these innocent victims? Why didn't you activate the same way in this case? Why do Italian citizens often have to take a back seat? Why didn't any minister - those involved in this affair - feel obliged to give an answer (even ugly, why is it likely that after almost two years of those bodies there was very little left)? The responsibilities - if any - must be established and an answer to these families, Mr President, must be given immediately. I would no longer like to call for this question to be dealt with. At this point I demand, with due courtesy, but also with due anger, an immediate response that must be given to the family members of those citizens. Mr President, immediately, not one day later.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u118	Senator Santangelo, I also remember other reminders in relation to the same requests, so I hope that a reply will arrive quickly for the relatives of those poor people.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-560.ana.u119	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.58 p.m.
