ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u4	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2362. The speakers, Senators Zeller and Marino Mauro Maria, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Zeller.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u9	Madam President, I shall focus on Chapter I of the Decree-Law, from Articles 1 to 6, while the report on Chapter II will be carried out by President Marino Mauro Maria. Articles 1 and 2 of the decree-law in question are aimed at introducing two new institutions into our system for the first time, the non-possession pledge and the so-called pact march. The rationale of this legislation is to simplify and make the guarantee system more flexible, to facilitate access to credit for companies, while at the same time strengthening the Italian banking system, ensuring greater simplicity and effectiveness of the techniques for realising the creditor's rights. The traditional system of guarantees is now largely outdated in the light of the profound changes in the economic system. The introduction of these two new institutions has been signalled for many years by the most authoritative doctrine and also by multiple studies and international relations. Now, with the introduction of the non-possession pledge and the so-called marching pact, Italy is once again at the forefront. I would like to point out that in assessing the amendments during the meetings of the Finance Committee, the two rapporteurs and the Government have followed the line of preserving the simplicity of the measure and of avoiding the introduction of rules that can create legal uncertainty or give rise to disputes for purely obstructive purposes. Arriving in Article 1, which regulates the non-possession pledge, I would immediately like to make it clear that it allows entrepreneurs to grant the pledge on movable property intended for the exercise of the undertaking without their having to be exhausted, thus allowing them to use the property, which is the subject of the pledge, for their business activity. I would also like to say that this system of ownership is very advanced and also much more modern than the institution of the so-called sicherungsübereignung practiced for example in Germany, which implies the transfer of ownership of the property to the creditor while the possession remains to the debtor, because in this case there is no advertising system that also guarantees third-party creditors. Our system is also better than that of the Netherlands, which has already provided for a long time for the non-possession pledge without, however, ensuring adequate publicity. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u10	Colleagues, I renew to my colleagues the prayer to reduce the buzz, because it is really difficult for the speakers to make their speech. I recommend that we speak quietly and only if necessary, otherwise I call on you to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u11	Mr ZELLER, rapporteur. In our system, however, advertising is ensured with the register of non-holders pawns established at the Revenue Agency which is already equipped to carry out this task. That is why we have also rejected, in the Commission, all proposals aimed at assigning this competence to the Ministry of Justice. In the text that we are proposing to this House, we have incorporated the comments of several colleagues to better specify the rules for the valuation of buildings in the case of raw materials and semi-finished products that have been processed. This is the case with the competition of more than one pawn on these processed materials. By accepting an amendment, we have also extended the possibility of granting the pledge also on claims from third parties and specified that the pledge may have intangible real estate such as patents. We have strengthened and simplified the obligation of communication in case of enforcement of the pledge and regulated the modalities of possible opposition of the debtor in case of enforcement of the pledge as well as the procedure of the delivery of the property to the creditor in this case, let's say, pathological. Article 2 regulates the pact marchano, which in itself would already be lawful today on the basis of a well-known judgment of the Court of Cassation of 2013 that has specified that this pact is lawful unlike the commissory pact that remains prohibited in the Italian law. The pact is lawful because, in this institution, the balance sheet imbalance, i.e. the possible surplus, in relation to debt, of the value of the immovable property delivered or transferred to the creditor, is lacking. In essence, there can be no, or rather there must not be, excessive capital imbalance. With the introduction of Article 48- bis of the single bank text, the legislator gives legal certainty to this important institution and confirms the legal drafting in this field. I would like to point out that this institution is only accessible to entrepreneurs, banks or other entities authorised to grant funding to the public and is clearly open only to real estate. The advertising system is guaranteed with transcripts in real estate records. The advantage for the creditor lies in not having to carry out lengthy and expensive enforcement procedures, as is the case today in the traditional model, being benefited by a much simpler system and shipped in case of default of the debtor. In this case, in fact, he can avail himself of the suspensive condition and ask for the transfer of the goods in his boss paying the difference of estimated value. I would like to add - because there have been many doubts in the debate in the Commission - that this system does not always have to be unfavourable to the debtor, even to traditional forms of execution and forced sale, because not always, in the case of application of the traditional modalities, the creditor succeeds in achieving a value higher than estimate; often, especially in the current situation of severe crisis in the real estate sector, the proceeds of a sale are much less than estimated. In the case of the pact the creditor must, instead, pay the estimated value and there is no possibility of lowering that price. In this sense, the pact may also be beneficial to the debtor compared to the other procedure, which also entails higher enforcement costs. We have taken account, by accepting a number of amendments tabled by several groups, of the critical comments on the guarantee of pardicio, in particular by strengthening advertising, by registering in real estate registers, and by introducing the modification for which this institution applies only to real estate and only to relations between business and banks, expressly excluding the first house. These arrangements, moreover, were already provided for in the text of the decree-law. We have accepted the objections of the Commission and other Members, who have seen too much rigour in terms of the number of monthly instalments and the period of non-compliance, which is why the pact clause should be triggered. We have approved a significant change by extending the terms of this default from six to nine months, to which are added, then, sixty more days after the creditor's notice: that is, before having to undergo a breakdown of his real estate, eleven months of default must pass, which seems to us a sufficiently long and acceptable period. We have introduced another modification: if the debtor has already repaid 85% of the capital these nine months of default must even become twelve; also this in order to meet situations where a debtor has essentially repaid his debt and has a temporary difficulty towards the end of the financing relationship. Another major issue was the application of this new institute, the pact marches, to existing contracts; in this case we preferred to reject all the amendments, because we believe that we must call for free bargaining between the parties to choose whether or not to apply the pact to existing funding. Since no one can be obliged to enter into a contract with a pact clause and because it is also a matter of businesses and not consumers, we think that this can guarantee, perhaps, the free play of the parties in the field. On the other hand, we have reinforced the contradictory assessment of the expert, giving the debtor the right to make observations within ten days, if he considers that the estimate of his property made by the expert is not appropriate or that there are errors. In this way, I believe we have strengthened the guarantee system. We have also accepted an amendment specifying that the dedicated account on which the surplus between the debt and the value of the real estate transferred to the bank should possibly be paid is free of charge. All expenses of this account must be borne by the bank and there must be no increased costs for the debtor. In Article 3, in order to facilitate the creation of a market for deteriorated loans, it is envisaged to establish an electronic register at the Ministry of Justice, where all the insolvency proceedings in place and also all the situations of extraordinary administration, agreed pre-emptive, restructuring agreements and recovery plans are elusive, so that potential creditors, before giving funding, can better assess the economic situation of companies. All this in implementation of a European Union regulation, on the model already successfully practiced in the United States with the so-called Pacer. Article 4 provides for a series of amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure, in order to speed up and simplify the enforcement procedures, which are often very cumbersome and expensive today. Thus, the right to object to execution shall be limited, after the sale or assignment of the goods has been ordered, except in the case of grounds which have occurred or which are not attributable to the debtor. It also simplifies the process of liberation of the good, entrusting the execution of the liberation no longer to the judicial officer, but to the guardian, always under the supervision of a judge and according to the modalities and times that decide the judge himself. We did not consider that we should accept amendments aimed at transferring this competence back to the judicial officer, because we believe that it should be a judge who evaluates these situations and not the judicial officer. On the other hand, we have accepted amendments to make it clear that the rules governing the release of immovable property from the movable property of third parties present on the spot are analogous to the procedure already applied for other releases. We have proposed, by accepting an amendment, that the reduction in the value to 50% of the last auction base should take place only after the fourth unsuccessful attempt at sale and not after the third. We have made it clear more clearly that the obligation to sell real estate electronically must take place after the development of the system of the sales portal, which is currently not operational, so there has been uncertainty which we have resolved with this amendment. I would like to point out that, even after the entry into force of the new electronic sales system, it will always be possible to proceed in parallel with the traditional system. I also think that the discipline, which we introduced in the conversion of the decree-law, relating to the distributions, even partial, of the proceeds in case of litigation, is worthy of note: even the set aside sums subject to dispute can be distributed to the creditors, if these creditors deliver a bank guarantee (we have extended the same system also to bankruptcy). We have also specified the provisions of Article 2029-a for the creditor's guarantees against the assignment of the debtor of goods free of charge, in order to circumvent his obligation to fulfil. We have introduced a clarification in the rent to buy system, clarifying that, in the event of default, the creditor can use the eviction validation procedure to free the real estate; this was an amendment strongly requested by the operators. Article 5 provides for access by the curator, the liquidator and the judicial commissioner to data relating to debtors of insolvency proceedings, for the purpose of recovery of claims: we have not made any significant changes to this article. On the other hand, it is worth noting that Article 5-a in which we have introduced a new list of professionals who can arrange for the sale of foreclosed goods, in order to ensure better training for the performance of this very delicate task, but leaving out the procedures for the courses to be attended by a ministerial decree. Article 6 amends certain rules of bankruptcy law in order to speed up the decisions of the creditors' committee and hearings, applying telematic modalities. I start at the conclusion: Article 7 provides for the faculty of the SGA, a concessionary constituted in the context of the rescue of the Banco di Napoli, to purchase and manage credits also of other subjects and not only of the former Banco di Napoli. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Marino Mauro Maria.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u12	Madam President, this bill was very much awaited and I believe it is also significantly important to us. There are five subjects dealt with in this decree-law and must be linked to each other. There are measures in support of companies and for speeding up the recovery of claims, which Senator Zeller has already mentioned, and changes to bankruptcy procedures, which my colleague has already dealt with. There are also three other issues: the procedures for reimbursement to customers of the four banks that were the subject of the resolution procedure last November (the Etruria and Lazio People's Bank, the Banca delle Marche, the Cassa di Risparmio di Ferrara and the Cassa di Risparmio di Chieti) and for those who invested in the bonds of the banks themselves; the extension of the operation of the Solidarity Fund for the conversion and professional retraining of credit staff and, finally, the provisions on deferred active taxes. There was a great expectation for the text at our examination, because it is the last of a series of interventions that have tried to consider the whole world of banks. The 6th Permanent Commission of the Senate had already carried out an interesting survey of the banking system, in relation to the European supervisory mechanisms, which had reached conclusions in November last year. Meanwhile, precisely in those days, situations of great tension were created, which saw the application of European standards, which in fact went in a different direction from the expectations of the Italian banking system itself. Compared to the four banks mentioned above, there was a wait to be able to apply and use the resources of the interbank Deposit Protection Fund, while a restrictive interpretation of the rules given at European level had meant that, without reaching the bail in, which was transposed into our system in November of last year and which would enter into force from 1 January 2016, there was the application of the intermediate phase of burden sharing. So it was a total upheaval, which also represents a moment of significant reflection on what will have to be, from here on, the customer's relationship with the banks, through a sort of Copernican revolution. The Government and Parliament had followed these issues carefully since Decree-Law No. 83 of 2015 and precisely because there had been this attention you did not get unprepared, although you find yourself in a very complex situation that has seen the rules of the game change while the game was in progress. This is what has actually created a moment of objective difficulty for citizens investors, who for example had turned to bonds, once an element of certainty and security, and that they have been seen to apply rules that instead made those investments much less safe, but also the need for an intervention in all fields that would cover additional specificities that allowed the Italian banking system, which is a healthy banking system, absolutely healthy, with some critical elements, to be able to manage intelligently the critical issues themselves. Having made this premise, entering into the substance, the colleague already referred to Article 7, which disposes of the acquisition by the MEF of the Company for the management of business SpA, constituted on the occasion of the rescue of the Banco di Napoli in 1997 in order to recover the outstanding claims. There has been significant attention from a number of colleagues on this Article 7. In the second survey we carried out on the banking system, we in the 6th Commission had the opportunity to have a conversation with Minister Padoan, who had already specified that this transaction was not a sale, but a return. The special attention paid by colleagues on this subject meant that the Government, when discussing the amendments, explained in particular the scope of this operation, the company's assets and also the prospects for its operation. Article 8 defines the concepts of investor, bank in liquidation, new bank, solidarity fund and interbank deposit protection fund. It is very important, because it represents the perimeter in the light of which the rules that come after and specifically those of Articles 9 and 10. Article 9 is crucial, because it directly concerns the issue of reimbursement procedures to the customers of the four banks. Before I explain it, I think it is important to make a premise. What happened, i.e. the assumption of repayment to bondholders, is a one-off thing that stems from a conversation with the European Union, which set four stakes which represented (these are) the limit of action by the Commission itself. I believe that what is done by the Government is something really significant and no longer repeatable, precisely because it represents the possibility of managing a phase of transition and protection against subjects that, as I said before, have been seen to change the rules of the game while the game was in progress. However, the stakes that arose from the interlocking with the European dimension are: the date on which to consider the possibility of intervention (which is that of 12 June 2014), the movable assets of 100,000 euros, the gross income for the purposes of the IRPEF (which must be less than 35,000 euros) and the last, the term of the maximum refund of 80%. How do you combine these parameters? Article 9 states that direct access to the solidarity fund - and I stress directly because the circumstances are different - for the purpose of recognising flat-rate compensation is valid for investors who are in possession of real estate of less than EUR 100,000 or who have a gross income, for the purposes of the IRPEF, in the year 2015 less than EUR 35,000. This is fundamental because it is the element that greatly extends the possibility of direct access to the fund itself: entities that have purchased financial instruments referred to in point (a) of the first paragraph of Article 8, by the date of 12 June 2014 - that is, the date of publication in the Official Journal of what would have been the new banking legislation (BRRD), the principle of the introduction of the burden sharing and the bail in - and that held them at the date of resolution of the banks in liquidation, which can directly ask the fund for the payment of a lump sum equal to 80% of the consideration paid for the purchase of the financial instruments, net of the charges and expenses related to the purchase transactions and the positive difference between yield of the subordinated financial instruments and market yield identified according to specific parameters. It is further specified that the submission of the flat-rate compensation application precludes the possibility of arbitration, which arose from paragraphs 857 to 860 of Article 1 of the Stability Act for 2016. Similarly, the activation of the arbitration procedure precludes the possibility of expressing the procedures of Article 9 where this procedure has already been activated; whereas, for financial instruments purchased beyond 12 June 2014, investors may access the arbitration procedure even where they have applied for the payment of lump-sum compensation and in relation to instruments purchased before 12 June 2014. It is clear that this is an arbitrary date, and yet, as one of the four poles that the European Union places on us, it is difficult to dispute. So, taking note of the existence of these stakes, we have tried to act to make the procedure provided for in the article easier and more accessible, and, thanks to the significant work done by the Commission, this result has been achieved, in addition to the collaboration of all. Having noted that one could not intervene on these elements, one has intervened first with a specification of income, which has gone from gross to total; then - another element evidenced - the term for the tax return of 2015 to 2014, first, has been replaced, in order to give an element of certainty and then, being the tax return 2015 a work in progress, in order to allow to accelerate the procedures themselves. The request for a copy of payment to the bank in liquidation and for the credit relating to subordinated financial instruments was deleted; it was in fact allowed that, in order to obtain the documents, the banks were required to give a copy to the investor within 15 days of his request. In other words, we had blocks that prevented us from going beyond a certain limit, but everything we could do to meet the saver was done in the most absolute way. This has been possible thanks to the contribution of the whole Commission and I also think with a little pride from Parliament, which has managed to improve a measure that already opened up absolutely significant prospects. Article 10 replaced paragraph 856 (assignment and limits of the Solidarity Fund) and amended paragraph 857 of Article 1 of the Stability Act for 2016. In fact, the ceiling of EUR 100 million, previously foreseen, has been abolished. In this regard, we have always found ourselves in the somewhat complex situation of not having to act because of the fear that there would be a step backwards and that this would be recognized as intervention to be considered State aid. Given the exceptional nature of the intervention, which arose from the need to manage a transitional phase that has seen people succumb to and damaged by the introduction of the new rules, the possibility of identifying the parameters that met them saw the need to meet significantly with the European level. The limit of 100 million, introduced in the law of stability, has instead been abolished and has brought to 30 June the deadline for the enactment of the decrees of the Minister of the economy. This is an important and sensitive issue because, as you will have understood, on the one hand we have the possibility of direct access to a fund that allows us to have the immediate 80% (truly exceptional fact); on the other hand, there is the possibility of arbitration. However, it is right that the citizen should be able to choose whether to use one instrument or the other, and without the issuing of such decrees he is in a bad situation, because on the one hand he knows exactly what the procedure is, but on the other hand he does not have the possibility to choose, because he does not know what criteria will be adopted for the arbitration procedure. It is therefore important to proceed in this direction in a very short time by the Ministry. Article 11 makes a number of changes to the current rules on deferred tax assets (DTAs) or early tax assets, in order to overcome the findings made by the European Commission on the compatibility of that institution with the State aid guidelines. On this point too, as the Commission, we have made it possible to ensure that payments are made not only by the consolidating body but also as consolidated bodies. A replacement amendment by the rapporteurs has also been tabled, which has made the rule easier to interpret and apply, also because of a problem of time overlap. Article 12 instead introduces a derogation, for the years 2016-2017 with reference to the staff of the credit, of the discipline of the funds of bilateral solidarity. The subject of Article 12 is sensitive, because we would have liked to have done more. First of all, we would have liked to have been able to intervene with the cooperative credit banks and we would have liked to extend the possibilities of intervention, with a number of amendments that had been tabled, but unfortunately there has been a very strong constraint in the remarks made by the General Accounting Office of the State. We have therefore decided, as the Commission, that we will take action with the adoption of a unitary agenda to try to develop and deepen these issues again so as to respond to a rather delicate issue. Article 13, on the other hand, deals with financial cover. This is the quick prospect of the decree under discussion. I repeat that this measure should not be considered as such, but as a further pearl of a series that is addressing the issue of the Italian banking system - I repeat, a sound banking system - which has never received State aid, unlike what has happened in other realities. Germany, which is now so rigid - let me say this - has given its banks 237 billion. We, in an interesting prospect, saw that the money paid, was then returned, allowing a small profit for the State of 100 million. I quote this fact because too many times we see only a number of negative elements emerge in the media. It is fair to say that we are taking care of this issue, but, since the substratum we are working on is fertile, we hope that the mechanism of recovery that our country certainly needs can be restarted. This decree-law, even with the contributions given by Parliament, I believe can be a further step in this direction, hoping that the positive effects will soon be seen. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u13	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u14	Madam President, in this case too, we regret the abuse of the instrument of the decree-law, which should be aimed at regulating situations in cases of necessity and urgency. For the umpteenth time, however, there is a repeated appeal to this instrument, in open violation of constitutional rules. This continuous appeal was the subject of a call from the Head of State himself and there were numerous judgments of the Constitutional Court. To date, in view of the proposals for reform at stake, the legislative function is collectively the responsibility of the Chambers and this should be a principle. However, for some time now there has been an imbalance and a forcing of balances and powers in relation to the constitutional dictation. In fact, every legislative power has been moved to the government with a method that, in reality, avoids a productive public confrontation in these Chambers. Let us remember, in fact, that the examination of a bill becomes public when it is discussed in the Assembly and our citizens can actually see, assist and participate in the determinations that are taken here. The use of emergency legislation has an exquisitely political justification. For a verse you want to avoid long times, but in reality it has been seen that for some measures, even when oppositions are involved to the right extent, the discussion of a topic is not excessively dilated and can take place with times that allow a real examination and deepening of the matter. Probably the real reason is not the fear of the length of the debate, but not wanting to run the risk of not seeing the bill passed exactly in the contents desired by the government. It is almost as if the government solution were to be imposed and it is feared that Parliament will be able to make changes. This is even more serious, because it means that the work of this House is completely reset. Perhaps this Government fears that the majority is not so cohesive and that, especially in this House, there may be differing views on the part of those who seem to support this Government but who, in fact, disagree with many of the decisions taken. We also complain that the measure, for the umpteenth time, is going to intervene on a matter of a procedural nature. Those who wanted to examine carefully the content of the bill will have noticed that we are talking about rules that not only concern the banking world, but also the civil procedure and, in particular, the civil enforcement process, on which the Government and the majority have in the last three years affected absolutely inappropriately with more measures, distorting the content of an executive process. It is not possible to continue attacking standards and changing structures without taking into account the organic and systematic apparatus of standards. The executive process is very delicate, because it can make a judgment in vain: a sentence of condemnation in civil matters that is not executed frustrates the content of the judgment itself. Therefore, the executive process must work, otherwise it is as if the whole system of justice that led to the sentence did not work. [[Applause from the Divine Senator]] But if we continue to influence the rules, we really lose the possibility of a coherent approach. And here we arrive, to a system of the process with very dilated and farraginous articulates, with considerable problems in the application and interpretation. Now, we have the problem of practical application with judicial officers and related issues of the telematic process. In this sensitive matter we intervene by decree-law, therefore with an immediate effectiveness of some norms that will then be converted or will be applied in a modified manner. Gentlemen, issuing a decree-law on this matter is irresponsible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] For this reason, for the umpteenth time, we raise a question for a preliminary ruling on this problem. You have issued decree-laws on criminal proceedings. Now here we come to the decree-laws on the executive process. But the law can't be treated like pebbles. The laws are the ones that frame the whole of a process. Around that trial, not only the magistrate and the lawyer rotate, but also the citizens. For this reason - I repeat - we once again raise a question of constitutionality on the measure under consideration, stressing that, for the umpteenth time, there is a heterogeneity of the subjects covered. Can the need and urgency be identified individually in all these rules? We have perhaps found the urgency requirement only with regard to Article 10, on the extension of the deadlines for issuing decrees of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. But only in that article. For the rest, it is not possible to identify the prerequisite for necessity and urgency. Where is the need and urgency of a new institution such as that of the securities pledge holder? Or these transferable transfers when carrying out securities? Perhaps the need and urgency exist for you, to save some banks. That is the problem, that of wanting to save banking institutions. The banking system cannot be dealt with continuously with measures which have, even these, the nature of decree-laws. Already decree-law n. 18 of 2016 went to affect the cooperative credit, modifying what is a complex apparatus. We also had Decree-Law No 183 of 2015, the so-called rescue banks, which also had a disastrous effect on the world of savings. In essence, we have had continuous partial interventions on one sector, the banking sector, which should be tackled in an organic way. You want to fix a problem? Let us tackle it in an organic way and not with commercial interventions that do nothing but produce harmful effects for the whole of our country. For all these reasons, we ask that we do not proceed with the examination of this bill. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u15	He asked Senator Crimi to speak in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u16	Madam President, we want to talk about this measure, particularly for those who are outside this House, so that they realize what we are voting for. I want to talk to those citizens gathered out here who are manifesting. We are in front of yet another decree saves banks: yes, saves banks. The rapporteur called it a pearl. And he couldn't really give a better definition. It is yet another pearl in this necklace of pearls that are the various decrees saves banks approved in these months. In fact, this is a Trojan horse, because, behind the captivating title that carries "Normas" in favor of investors in banks in liquidation, it hides traps. A real semantic scam, like the scam perpetrated behind the savers. With this decree-law, the Government, in fact, is concerned to facilitate the collection of claims by banks, introducing ever faster procedures, which turn out to be potentially deadly for companies. And only marginally, as a real smoke in the eyes, does it also introduce rules for the compensation of cheated savers. In fact, before making decisions to protect savers, he waited to find the best way to save even the banks. Savers cheated - I repeat: conned - and not bold and unscrupulous investors as someone had the courage to define them. Do we want to remember who they were conned by? There are 130,000 savers who have lost their savings in shares, subordinated bonds of Banca Etruria, Banca Marche, Cassa di risparmio di Ferrara, Cassa di risparmio di Chieti. And they are only the last four in temporal order compared to the previous ones; the first name, Bank Etruria, now sadly famous, as linked to the father of the Minister for relations with the parliament, Maria Elena Boschi. They are savers who have seen their savings go up in smoke, deceived once again and today once again deceived by this Government that had promised to protect them: the Renzi-Boschi Government, the government of Bank Etruria. We are faced with the usual decree-horse of Troy: behind the apparent intent to safeguard the savers cheated by the banks, already saved in extremis always by this Government, first the banks and then the savers, the decree-law hides other rules, which, instead of protecting the savers, tend to protect the banks and to allow easier recovery of the credits always by the same; but few are the rules aimed at allowing a smooth recovery of the credits by the savers and to encourage the availability of the credit by the banks. Gentlemen, this country is suffering. It suffers when it suffers from the small and medium-sized enterprises that are its soul, it suffers when small and medium-sized enterprises close for poor economic availability. It suffers when a company closes because it has failed to invest to become more competitive in the market. To become more competitive sometimes means to invest new money, it means to be able to afford new machinery and new capital goods, and to do so, unfortunately, today it is necessary to finance the banks. Banks that don't give that funding. In order to make it easier, to bring back the banks to do their duty, their mission, their main function, they do not intervene on the banks, they do not impose criteria such as to make the credit from the banks mandatory, to push them to do so, discouraging the banks that do not perform this function properly. No, not at all. It is done, on the contrary, by encouraging them. Banks must always be given an incentive, they must be rewarded if they do what supposedly should be their duty. And how are they encouraged? By introducing a set of rules and codes that allow you to easily re-enter the credit. Because to date, according to the banks, the reason why they do not give credit and do not grant loans is the lack of certainty of recovery. But they have actually lost their true nature as credit institutions to become a party fund, a fund of politicians and politicians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It still echoes the famous phrase "We have a bank." Do you remember her? "We have a bank" meant to have a fund to draw from for the electoral needs or the party. You could make justice work better, make it faster, allow judges to have the necessary resources to respond to the numerous demands within a reasonable time and with the certainty of truth. But no; even in this case we try the extrajudicial way, we try to make the banks become judges of themselves and of their debtors, triggering perverse mechanisms of blackmail and awe. This is how the rules of the non-possession pledge come into play, which allows companies to secure their bank debt by means of securities relating to their productive activity. Attention: it allows businesses to do so, because this is the way in which you present these rules. It is a theoretical possibility, but in fact increases the contractual power of the banks to a great extent, being often short of liquidity and financing due to the crisis situation and therefore forced to include in the contract with the bank the new discipline, under penalty of non-payment of the credit. The comical thing is the way in which it is presented, as an opportunity, a possibility, the usual semantic scam, to say that tomorrow you, enterprise, will have an extra tool, but in reality that extra tool is that you can engage the family assets, those of the company, as you used to do at the pawnshop. Nice tool! The bank never risks anything, the bank lends money as if it were not part of this country system, as if it did not suffer directly from the crisis. As companies close, they close their accounts, close their credit lines and close banks. It's a natural consequence. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I want to remember the words of Nick Hanauer, American businessman: While people like you and me thrive beyond the dreams of every plutocrat in history, the rest of the country - 99.9 percent - remains far behind and backward. The gap between those who have and those who do not have gets worse and worse. I earn 1,000 times the average American a year, but I don't buy a thousand times more stuff. My family has bought three cars in recent years, not 3,000. I bought a few pants and a few shirts a year, like many other Americans. I bought two pairs of the best wool pants, but I couldn't have bought 1,000. Instead, I put away my extra money, where it doesn't do my country much good. If Hanauer's 9,000,000 dollars in more than 10,000,000 annual earnings had gone to 9,000 families instead of him, they would have been pumped back into the economy through consumption and created more employment. This money is in Hanauer's bank accounts or invested in companies that don't have enough potential customers to sell to. Then there is the famous automatic transfer of the property of the real estate of the enterprises to the bank, excluding the property used for the main dwelling. Attention, I already know that the government will make this look like a great victory, saying that it has prevented banks from taking over the main house, but hiding that, behind this, they can appropriate everything else in case of late payment. The judicial procedure in front of the court is skipped, which thus has the sole task of appointing an expert to estimate the value of the property. Who protects the debtor from any bank scam? Who protects him from a miscalculation of interest or installments where he decides not to pay because, in fact, he believes that there is a mistake or a scam? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Also in this case it is, in purely theoretical line, an optional choice of the enterprise, but how can we imagine that it is a free choice when who has the knife on the side of the handle is always the bank? Those who resort to the credit of a bank is because they need it and we know that banks do not give money to those who do not put in front of a corresponding value and no bank lends a loan or opens a trust line if not behind the guarantee of an asset that can be readily acquired. Perhaps it will be a form of different facilitation in interest and we will have the favorable credits (i.e. equal to those of now) and ordinary credits (i.e. more expensive than those of now) in either case. It is also expected that the credit of the banks governed by this Article will legally prevail over all other claims, including those of the suppliers of the company and the State, such as taxes. We are therefore arguing that the bank providing a credit with these clauses takes precedence over all other creditors. But what bank isn't going to fish on this new form of loan sharking? In fact, let's give her the name she deserves: choking. They say that the rule is not retroactive, but giving the possibility to include this pact in the credit agreements already in place makes it in fact retroactive. I also recall the forecast of the replacement of the judicial officer with a judicial guardian paid at a fee and, therefore, encouraged to carry out quickly the expropriations of the real estate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u17	I invite you to conclude, Senator Crimes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u18	CRIMI (M5S). I begin to conclude, Madam President, although there are many issues to be addressed. I would also like to focus on the way in which this reform has been brought to a conclusion, which I do not know how to define except as a umpteenth gift to the banks. We are faced with yet another decree-law, yet another confidence, yet another degradation of Parliament, the annulment of the debate and debate, the desire to make the Constitution a waste of time. You want to humiliate the Constitution once again. Your boss said that after the ballots he'll join the party with the flamethrower and so you have to prepare for the worst. But you can rest assured that you have always carried out the commands, without delay and remorse. You can rest assured. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] You don't care about us and the citizens we represent and continue with the same arrogance and amazement that your boss taught you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u19	He asked Senator Bernini to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u20	Madam President, I would like to thank as always the rapporteurs for the measure, Mr Zeller for his illustration and Mr Mauro Maria Marino. This is a non-formal thank you. This is an extremely complex measure on which - as you can testify - we have tried, as far as possible, to make our contribution. I share many of the concerns raised by my previous colleagues. President Marino, this measure is not a pearl. It is a very opaque measure, which is based on mistakes made in the past, which are still undefiled. It is a measure with elements of formal, procedural and substantive criticality. I don't want to be too bureaucratic. We have tabled a question with a very expanded content. We also wanted to enter the substance because, never like this measure, the form is substance and the substance is form. Having the canons ten minutes to illustrate all the constitutional perplexities we have with regard to this decree-law, I tried to highlight some points. I have therefore tried to self-censor myself because, never as in this measure, there are so many constitutional perplexities and colleagues, despite their skill in the exhibition, have not been able to hide some criticalities that emerge precisely from their own words. The first critical issue is the title. We are at the 49th decree-law passing - which, among other things, escapes all control of this Parliament because unfortunately the majority wins and we in the opposition can denounce the pathologies, but we cannot stop the run of the unconstitutional train, represented by this measure - on the basis of criteria of unevenness that are denounced by the same title. It is in fact the title that tells us that within these measures there is constitutional violation. It is the same title that tells us that there is no such necessity and urgency as provided for in Article 77 that, evidently, President Renzi believes he can modify by customary means. By making decrees-laws totally lacking the prerequisites of necessity and urgency, he thinks that sooner or later Article 77 will be considered to be changed by customary means. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] He's doing law school. In fact, we have not understood this, but its objective is to do jurisprudence. It is, however, up to us to report the pathology inherent in all this. Believe me, it's a very bitter irony what we're doing. This is a particularly unfortunate measure in this respect, because we have an additional element of great criticality that is involved in the unconstitutionality, given by the brutal, and I stress brutal, way of preparing the laws. Brutal, sloppy and ineffective mode. Again, we make rules torn from a fake emergency and grafted on a body of rules that must be stable, clear, absolutely transparent and unambiguous, to give its users, all the citizens, and its interpreters, legal certainty. We, with a dishomogeneous decree-law, change together, as my previous colleagues have said, the civil code, the civil code of procedure and the bankruptcy law. Do we realize what we're doing? In any emergency measure, in every decree-law totally lacking the requirements of necessity and urgency, there is a small piece of change of the fundamental texts for the democratic life and for the certainty of the law of this Republic. Colleagues, it is quite disturbing, also because these changes, on which I will now enter into the substance, as well as being absolutely inappropriate, unconstitutional and creating an additional element of confusion in the normal and natural body of these disciplines are also profoundly unfair. This is not a merit assessment. Here we must go down to a delicate part, to a vile body, to the most delicate part of this measure that President Marino has tried to justify through the four poles of Europe. Mr Marino, you and I together have dealt with Europe in the last parliamentary term, and we know that Europe sometimes represents a veil of Maya which, I assure you, savers betrayed by the four decoction banks are looking forward to tearing. I do not believe that betrayed savers - then I will turn to the partial, insufficient and absolutely discriminatory compensation arrangements provided for by this decree - will be happy to know that Europe has provided for a time-limit for their fulfilment or for the parameters of income and income which - for goodness' sake, I acknowledge the Commission's attempt to expand as much as possible - but which remain absolutely unsatisfactory. Colleagues, President, President Marino, why the lump sum refund? You have this vague reflection, you have also done so with pensions, for the lack of indexing of pensions for two years. You decide and even call it a bonus, as if you did a courtesy to savers, pay only in part and in an unsatisfactory and discriminatory way. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] And do we want to talk about an embarrassingly sloppy legislative technique, about the famous 80 euros that you've been waving in our ears for two years and that now one million and 400,000 recipients have to return because they didn't have the income criteria necessary and sufficient to receive them? Moreover, they have already been paid by the employer and spent. Do you realize that? It is a pathology that grafts on another pathology. We have told you and we repeat it to you about this provision: we do not make commercial laws, we do not make laws of apparent satisfaction of some instances, which you consider not to be postponed and which then bounce in the face with extraordinary violence. It happened for the 80 euros, and it will be a tragedy because the 80 euros will have to be returned by people who have already spent them and who have an income even less than 8,000 euros. And the same will happen to these savers because, ladies and gentlemen, we do not pretend that we do not know that all these fine intentions do not yet have a channel of implementation. President Marino said this before, very gently, but this famous Solidarity Fund to which we must draw in order to compensate, in a way - I repeat - absolutely partial, unfair and discriminatory, only a minimal portion of the savers of the four banks - leaving out, moreover, the other savers of all the popular banks and cooperative credit of which the scams are now revealed that are not included in this measure - is still a closed channel because they want the implementing decrees. Once again we have before us a measure of deferred effectiveness, totally contrary to the spirit of the decree-law, even if we have now realized that for Renzi the decree-law is a category of spirit not a way of law-making, unfortunately, endowed with characteristics of primary standardization. However, I repeat, there are still no ways of doing this. I shall conclude, Mr President, because I see that my time is coming to an end, referring to the text of our preliminary ruling. However, I would like to stress the fact that this phantom arbitration procedure for the regulation of which we refer to the law of stability is still totally devoid of content, as without content and funds is the Solidarity Fund through which these savers will have to be compensated. We are talking, once again, about nothing, about ways that could have been implemented, put in place months ago, when the Government should have done so not with an instrument like the decree-law but with an act of secondary standardization, with a ministerial decree. If it had been wanted, it could have been done correctly, in a reasonable time and for a fair and effective satisfaction of savers. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a measure that tells many things, promises many things but threatens to keep very but very few. For all these reasons and for many others that we have indicated in a much more analytical way in our preliminary ruling, we ask that the path of this measure stop here. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u21	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u22	Madam President, this measure is yet another regulatory intervention for the reform of the banking sector with the instrument of the decree-law. According to the constitutional plan - every time we insist on this element - the decree-laws derive their general legitimacy from extraordinary cases and are destined to act immediately in order to give rapid regulatory responses to situations in need to be regulated in a manner suitable to deal with urgent and urgent needs, pursuant to Article 77, second paragraph, of the Constitution. Hence, the inadequacy of the decree-law instrument to carry out system reforms, such as the one provided for in this provision and also in others that we have recently examined, immediately stems from this. It is not, therefore, the instrument of the decree-law that can intervene on matters such as these, which directly affect substantive and procedural law, even with significant repercussions on the socio-economic system. The amendments to the banking code and the code of civil procedure, the relevant implementing rules and the bankruptcy law require implementation processes that are necessarily prolonged over time, due to the numerous implications, referrals and progressive accommodations, which are poorly reconciled with the immediacy of effects inherent in the decree-law. Some provisions contained in this decree, in fact, are destined to enter into force only after the adoption of implementing regulations and others do not introduce anything innovative, but only strict compliance with the subjects operating in the executive, individual and competition. Among other things - if I do so more specifically on the substance of some of the provisions, because they are nevertheless relevant from the point of view of the preliminary constitutionality that we have put forward - it emerges, in the context of certain provisions, clearly, that, contrary to what has been stated, the measures contained in the articles relating to the guarantee system, the acceleration of the recovery of claims and the reduction of the time of the enforcement procedures, are not intended to support companies or citizens, but, by introducing new institutions and instruments, to benefit and strengthen only the banks, which will, among other things, have even more ease in reconciling their only interests. The restrictive requirements for access to the Solidarity Fund provided for in Article 9 are only a few examples, but very clear and glittering, of the numerous discriminatory rules in the measure, which exclude from automatic reimbursement entire categories of savers, damaging in a significant way the principle of substantial equality, as set out in paragraph 2 of Article 3 of the Constitution. I am referring to the Government's choices to limit the benefit only to those in possession of a movable property of less than 100,000 euros or with a gross income of less than 35,000 in 2015 and limit it to the amount of 80% of the consideration paid; not to allow even those who have purchased the same securities from other banking institutions to benefit from the lump sum refund, introducing a legal distinction between private customers of the four banks, who have purchased on the secondary market, and private investors who have purchased from other institutions, and to include in the investor's bookkeeping the subordinated financial instruments reset to avoid, of course, serious distortions to the detriment of those who hold important shares of such financial instruments. Similarly, the provisions on forced expropriation, in particular the release of the foreclosed property without the intervention of the judicial officer and the transfer of the property through the activation of the pact march, taking place only on the impulse of the creditor, without the presence of the judge, do not offer sufficient guarantees to the debtor and, in the absence of counterweights, there is the real risk that the banks can impose the new form of guarantee in order to grant the financing to the entrepreneur, with the possibility, in case of default of the debtor, to become owner of the good, violating the principle of equality enshrined in Article 3 of the Constitution. And again. Article 4, significantly affecting the procedures of judicial auctions, imposes a real sale of private assets in violation of Article 42, paragraph 2, to protect private property. Specifically, the court is expected to have up to three sales experiments, each with a quarter down on the previous price. If everyone goes deserted, the magistrate can arrange a fourth auction, even reducing the price of the property up to 50 percent. To aggravate the negative impact contributes the retroactive effectiveness of the rule, which also applies to all foreclosures prior to the reform and still in progress and to those for which three auction experiments have already been carried out, which can therefore be closed in advance to the decrease by the judge. The arbitration procedure rule, which is an alternative to the request for lump-sum reimbursement, does not clarify how arbitration will take place, does not allow savers to decide which procedure to take and does not allow the saver to access the arbitration procedure, if the procedure for obtaining lump-sum compensation does not end due to lack of requirements or the impossibility of finding the required documentation. Above all, it does not explicitly provide that access to the two procedures, of lump-sum reimbursement and arbitration, does not preclude the initiation or continuation of compensation actions, in civil or criminal proceedings, against new banks or other entities, thus attacking what our Constitution (Article 47 (1) and (2) considers a fundamental resource for the development of the community, that is, savings itself. For this reason, we ask the House not to proceed with the examination of the draft law in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u23	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak in the debate on the question for no more than ten minutes. Since no one intends to intervene, we shall proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's not possible, Senator Endrizzi. You have to vote by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u26	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, it was obviously a request from Senator Endrizzi to verify the quorum before the vote on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. We therefore call for the quorum to be checked. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u27	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 2362 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Stefani and other senators (QP1), Senator Bottici and other senators (QP2), Senator Bernini and other senators (QP3) and Senator De Petris and other senators (QP4). It's not approved. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u28	Madam President, despite the good press that still accompanies the Renzi Government, unlike some time ago... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u29	Colleagues, those who have to leave the Chamber are asked to do so in silence, otherwise Senator Bonfrisco will not be able to make her speech. I ask you for the courtesy of facilitating her work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u30	Please, Senator Bonfrisco. BONFRISCO (CoR). Thank you, Madam President, but let me get to the point quickly. Despite the good press that the Government enjoys, unlike some time ago the commentators and the experts show more and more the distance that is being consolidated between the effects of the work of the Executive and the intentions that animate it. The text we are examining can also be included in the list of interpretations provided by the Government of its actions, which receive regular denials, more or less diplomatic, even in the most important institutional fora. The last in order of time comes from the Bank of Italy, which reduces the growth estimates and cools expectations for an increase in inflation; the same has done the OECD, which has also added the forecast of a slowdown in the employment trend, and it has had to recognize even ISTAT, regarding the growth that, if it had ever started, has already stopped. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Too many times, in these two and a half years, we have been faced with general measures - and this decree-law is one of those - from the prose most often involuted, full of errors and sometimes horrors of various kinds, from the trivial refusal to the repeated referral to norms no longer in force, measures that an institution worthy of this name should not even agree to discuss. This Parliament has reduced itself to the legislative office of the Government, because we could tell - in addition to the imaginary story of the Renzi Government - what in the many approximate and summary texts, launched by the Council of Ministers and downloaded into Parliament, we had to correct, improve and condition, to the attention of the senators, in order to be able to produce a text that could stand even to the test of the constitutional screening. This time, however, as the preliminary questions have pointed out, the form becomes dramatically substance, as my colleague Senator Bernini said, and the measure we examine lies right within this vulnus, so we intervene with a decree-law in an area where, between compressed rights and innovations, we are changing the face of the country's economy. In the press conference following the Council of Ministers which approved the decree-law in question, President Renzi greeted him as the measure that would definitively resolve the problems of the national banking system: a healthy system, according to everyone, but that evidently so healthy should not have been, if four banks, like those that have been widely cited, all located in Central Italy, have put to the attention of all of us the fact that, probably, in the regularity of their activities, there was some fold that was better read and that the supervisory institutions, from CONSOB to the Bank of Italy, could and should have done their work better. We also had to record the fact that a decree-law was issued for these four banks and to heal the dramatic vulnus of the fall of confidence on the part of Italian savers towards the banking system in this geographical area, while the same treatment is not provided for savers from another part of the country, that is the North-East, hit by the very serious difficulties of the Banca People's of Vicenza and Veneto Bank, who will bear it all on their own. This is because, probably, in the four banks subject to the decree-law there was also more, which had to be understood, healed and resolved. Renzi defines this as the decree-law that solves the problems of the national banking system, but it is not true: it solves the problems of four banks of a specific territory. Why? Because in reality the decree-law, articulated in the three parts that have already been widely cited above all by the rapporteurs who preceded me, is anything but systematic. In the first two parts, those most directly aimed at solving the problems of credit institutions, the government text is characterized by the fragmentation and the lack of deepening of the dynamics and the immediate and future consequences of the provisions it contains. What am I talking about, Madam President? To the fact that intervention in this area is far from making the economic system aware of how the decree-law really supports the long-standing problem of the banking system, suffering, stranded credits and those situations which, in the aftermath of the unfortunate and irresponsible approval of the bail in by Parliament, including this House, has come to everyone's attention. It has exploded the bubble of those sufferings which, within the balance sheets of the banks, constituted a dramatic burden which, in the context of European supervision, prevented our banks from being able to continue to play their role. So what is produced by the decree-law in question? The first part is doomed to novelty, but it is nothing more than a marginal intervention and in our opinion it is still cumbersome and plentiful on the redefinition of the two institutions already used in practice and in the current expropriation procedures. It leads to unbalanced intervention, apparently in favour of the banks, but only apparently, because in reality, even the banks will not serve this measure, which will certainly not help to settle the legitimate reasons of all the parties involved. In fact, as has already been said, who will deal with the correct balance between creditor, debtor and other creditors in various ways? Why are we only concerned with solving part of the problem when this was an opportunity to intervene, especially in such complex and sensitive texts as those of civil procedure, in favour of all companies, banks and anyone in a position to be a creditor and not to see their right recognized? This is a purely financial vision of the so-called non-performing loans, which are certainly a financial theme, but if they are included in a vision conveyed by those who work on the international markets (those who frequent the living rooms of the banks, where the shares weigh and do not count) and who through this macro vision of the problems is accustomed to standardize. This is also done by the ECB and also by the supervisory system that intended to assume a standard that does not include any economic and financial realities even healthy, as Senator Mauro Maria Marino recalled, typical of our Italian system. In our opinion, however, the government should have been more careful and not just thinking about the spread or operating margins to solve this problem, but have a more detailed view, because this serves the analysis that has been made by the Commission's work, which is also valuable. In this regard, the sense of the proposals we have presented moved in the awareness that banks and entrepreneurs, banks and businesses, are part of a single system, vital for the economy as a whole, which cannot be reborn by favouring one part at the expense of the other; it is only by making all the parties involved responsible that we can really change the verse, so that it is not just a hashtag or a tormentone, but is a serious and concrete reality in favour of our companies. I would like to conclude my general speech by reminding you that in the good work of the Commission a great deal of attention has been paid to improving the text, but it has not been put enough to improve it not only for the financial verse it had and for the attention to the budgets it had to have, but also for those people who make up this system and who have not been recognized within the financial and insurance system as vital parts. That human capital which, in our opinion, is of the same importance as financial capital and is worth at least as much as it is in dealing with a system crisis that we hope this measure will solve, but which we fear will not solve. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi, Quagliariello and Scilipoti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u31	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u32	Madam President, I will dwell on the provisions of Article 2 of this decree-law, with the introduction of the so-called pact march and do so in order to denounce a very serious danger that is about to be introduced into our system to the detriment of companies and to the precise and blatant advantage of banks and financial institutions. Let us explain in a few words what this pact consists of, whose eligibility has certainly already been declared by the Italian jurisprudential bodies and also by the dogmatic, but which, because of the conditions in which it is about to be introduced, brings us absolutely into the field of corporate killerage. It is a question of being able to transfer the property or the real right of immovable property directly to the creditor without passing through the known enforcement procedures, those which see the normal process of the act of precept, of foreclosure, of the sale and of the possibility of the debtor executed to be able to defend himself whenever the actuated credit is indisputable. In this case, as far as banks are concerned, those who have knowledge of the courts know very well that the court case relating to the quantification of banks' claims is very frequent. I refer to the well-known issues relating to banking anatocism, to the illegitimate clauses contained in the mortgage contracts, also to the usurious interests that are counted, including criminal proceedings that often arise to the detriment of banks and their legal representatives. The point here, ladies and gentlemen, is that, by introducing the new Article 48- bis into the single banking text, we are bringing in - as Mr Crimes said - a Trojan horse, and it is good that Italian entrepreneurs are already aware of the risk they face when they ask for funding, a loan from banks. But above all - ahinoi - even those who have already been financed and mortgaged will be able to fall into this which can be a deadly trap for businesses. Let's be clear: the fulfilment of the condition that will allow the banks to learn directly the property put to guarantee occurs with the only failure to pay three monthly installments, even not consecutive. Well, in the Finance Committee, adhering to the demands of the 5 Star Movement and also of other oppositions, the rule has been partially changed, providing that the delay in the payment of each individual instalment is not more than six months (as now established in the single bank text) but nine months. This is obviously a warm cloth that will not protect companies from the risk of losing the availability of real estate, except for the home of the debtor, the spouse and the closest relatives. Fortunately, at least there is still this limit, but it will certainly not help to free companies from the easily imaginable risk of what will result from it and which, I repeat, also applies to the current funding. In fact, the banks will call the entrepreneur who has a financing going on, maybe a ten-year or twenty-year loan to repay a financing for the company, they will politely summon him to the branch to have him sign a contractual integration, which will be a agreement made pursuant to the new article 48- bis of the single bank text, which establishes the pact marching. And the entrepreneur, whether he is aware of this or not, will go to the branch, because we know very well what the reality of the enterprises: when the bank calls, the entrepreneur is forced to run. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]] The justification of the rapporteur, Mr Zeller, that, in any case, we need a voluntary subscription to make this pact work, is actually an empty justification, nothing, because we know very well, and we challenge anyone to prove otherwise, that today a banking institution that is funding for a small or large entrepreneur is objectively in a strong position. So this excuse doesn't exist. The first big mistake, in addition to the intention to introduce this pact march, is to make it applicable to ongoing financing: this will lead thousands of Italian entrepreneurs to put a noose around their necks because, in the case of a monthly installment, if three installments, even not consecutive, are not paid, or rather are not paid within nine months of each expiry, that property or those real estate (opifici, land, real estate that are not housing houses), will be directly taken by the bank. In fact, it is no coincidence that the banks now, moving away from what should be their historical, institutional and economic function, are creating real estate companies to manage the real estate they have never had directly, but now they will have to manage. We will have these companies - I imagine, of the real estate banks - that will market the real estate taken with this clause in the most favourable market conditions and perhaps even lucrating us. Now, that banks should pursue profit we do not question it, nor is our position ideologically opposed to banks: we are the first to know well that a functional credit system is a resource and it is a necessity to move forward the country's economy and businesses. But the conditions in which the banking system operates in Italy I believe are known to all and therefore, recalling what the rapporteur has set out in his report with regard to the marching pact, which already exists in other European countries such as Germany and Holland for which there is no risk to introduce it also in Italy, I challenge the rapporteur or anyone else to prove that the regulatory situation and the protection of accountants, savers and entrepreneurs who access the bank financing in our country is equal to that of the countries mentioned. This is not the case, and daily news reports tell us how much the regulatory framework to protect savers and accountants leaves much to be desired. What is more, it is expected that this pact will also apply to pending enforcement procedures, so we are really insane. In the current enforcement procedures, the bank that has signed this creditor pact will abandon the executive procedure for the direct prenunciation of the good. All this to the detriment of the debtor's reasons, of the companies in this case, all the times when he has reason to contest the claim. It is no coincidence that today, in the execution procedures of real estate, in the chancellors of the commercial sections of the courts, to the delegates to the sale, that is to say to those who quantify the credit of the banks, are sent circular to specify the criteria, in order to avoid that the banks, as they do and try to do very often, load their credit of interest or other not due items. This will all go away. Then having to resort once again to the decree-law, to have put this legislation within the framework of a far-fetched system of compensation for savers cheated by the four banks is the umpteenth scar that this majority and this Government want to impose, revealing a brazen will to favor the banking and financial system and, paradoxically, to damage the enterprises, that we know to be the primary resource for the maintenance of this state [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And we know that, we who, in fact, also help companies by cutting our salaries, and seeing them with a loop around their necks for this shameful legislation is something that we will oppose in every way. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u33	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is yet another measure that intervenes in the matter of credit in this legislature, with the same cut of the provisions adopted so far on this subject, namely with a view more to the financial system and the protection of paths of enrichment on the possession of capital, rather than to the promotion of a substantial reform of the credit system aimed at supporting economic activity to relaunch the development of our country in Europe and to face the serious problems of a social nature that our country suffers at this stage. I am referring in particular to unemployment and the resulting poverty. As has been pointed out by several parties, even in the debate that started this morning, it is true that the structure of the measure tends to safeguard credit institutions and banks, which cannot and are not the end of the economic system, but one of the instruments to support our economic system. I come from the left, I am not a great fan of the market economy, which entrusts to the rules of the economic relationship between subjects the destiny of an economy; I am more so as to return to economic planning and to re-launch the intervention of the State and the community, because a community exists and is in conditions of well-being if it thinks of itself and the progressive exclusion of the State from the action of economic programming also causes damage to the economic system of market: parasitic accumulation paths develop that make the development of the economy much more complicated and the maintenance of levels of social well-being in our country, in Europe and in the West. I suggest everyone read the last booklet that Galbraith wrote before he died: "The economy of the scam" We have entrusted ourselves to the so-called finance wizards, who also devour most of the resources that are produced and are overpaid to maintain high levels of capital profitability, possibly erasing and devastating the productive system. This is a measure that marries that perspective, particularly in the establishment of the non-possession pledge, which seems almost positive. With the non-possession pledge, a guarantee is provided on movable property intended for the operation of the company, in order to continue to exercise the activity of the enterprise and use the credit in order to be able to develop its own company. The reality is that, in a system that is stifling for businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, this becomes an instrument through which the enterprise becomes hostage. The financial system, the credit system and the banks as we are producing them have little interest in carrying out one of the main functions for which they were born, i.e. collecting savings and devoting it to investments, certainly guaranteed, but functional to economic development. The bank today has a concern, that of keeping its liquidity as much as possible in its own coffers in order to make it the object of financial speculation, pursuing enrichment through the investment of capital on itself and not on the productive activity, which is more risky, more tiring and requires managerial capacity in the productive sector in which it is decided to invest and is subjected to difficulties that often arise from developments, even of market, that are decided in other parts of the world, very difficult to control and in the hands of subjects that totally escape also the rules of the individual Countries. Well, since this is the dynamic, the result is that even what would appear useful, for the purposes of access to credit, becomes a delivery tool as a hostage to the credit and finance system, because together with the creation of the non-possession pledge there is a system of debt recovery interventions that assumes a very risky feature. The dynamics with which the judicial auctions and the procedures related to those judicial auctions are concluded have the logic of those who want to take advantage of the bankruptcy, putting the same credit institution (the one that should favor the development of the economy, support the enterprise and promote the private intrapresa and the personal risk of the entrepreneur) in the condition to take advantage and to speculate on the bankruptcy. And it does so through participation in the judicial auction on behalf of third parties, in a system like ours, which is always adhered to by every kind of judiciary because it permeable to corruption as the Court of Auditors and all the authoritative financial observers who have as their task the analysis of the behaviors of our administrations and the subjects that contribute to the management of development, or better of the economy of our country, because the development is additional and very difficult to achieve. Madam President, I conclude by saying that we would have preferred - and we do not give up thinking that we can do so - to finally adopt framework legislation on credit, which would allow everyone, businesses, citizens, as well as operators in that sector, to understand where we are going and what the risks of this system are in order to be able to work for the benefit of the community. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u35	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law is part of a complex process of reforming the Italian banking sector, which is part of the wider process at European level. Allow me to give you a gift of an episode presented to my person a few days ago and, to be clearer, I want to talk to you about a sentence that has been the subject of my thoughts for some days: It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of heaven (Matthew 19:24). Mr Lezzi (M5S). Amen. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). It is an essential word for understanding Jesus'relationship with wealth. The image is strong, paradoxical, as it is in the Semitic style. Between God's wealth and Kingdom there is incompatibility and it is useless to want to water down a teaching that we repeatedly find in Jesus'preaching, when he says, for example, that we cannot serve God and Mammon (i.e. wealth). Or when it seems to ask the rich young man to give up impossible man, but not God. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask you to stick to the subject under discussion. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I am sorry to contradict you, Mr President, but this is the subject of the debate. What, then, does Jesus condemn? Certainly not the goods of this earth in itself, but he who is attached to them. Why? It is clear: because everything belongs to God and the rich one instead behaves as if the riches were his. The fact is that riches easily take God's place in the human heart and blind and facilitate all vice. Paul, the apostle, wrote: "Those who want to be rich, fall into temptation, snare and many senseless and hurtful cravings, which cause men to drown in ruin and perdition. The attachment to money, in fact, is the root of all evils; for his unbridled desire some have deviated from the faith and have tormented themselves with many pains. What then is the attitude of whom he possesses? It is necessary for him to have a free heart, totally open to God, to feel as administrator of his goods and to know, as John Paul II said, that a social mortgage is imposed on them. The goods of this land, not being an evil for themselves, are not to be despised, but must be used well. Not the hand, but the heart must stay away from them. It is a matter of being able to use them for the good of others. He who is rich is rich to others. "I have chosen God alone, nothing more than that, and I am sure that when I appear before the God of our fathers, his son and our brother Jesus will not say to me: It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of Heaven. And for you, my beloved brothers, bankers, bankers, parliamentarians, religious, economists, entrepreneurs and traders, I hope that your deaf ears will not hear the deaf cry in the desert of the joint heir of God and our Lord Jesus Christ tell you: It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of Heaven! But now we return to the draft law, which was the subject of my speech. I was talking to you about the provision of urgent provisions on enforcement and insolvency proceedings, as well as for investors in banks in liquidation. The aim of the text is to speed up the recovery of the credit to protect those who grant funding. As you know, I have dealt with the problem over and over again in the past, taking the side of all those citizens and consumers who are vexed by out-of-control interest rates and bank undues of various kinds. All the more so today, I feel like I have a deep reflection because it seems that the situation is not going to improve. The Bible says: The rich dominion over the poor, and he who receives loans is a slave to his creditor. Personally, I think that this quote perfectly describes a reality that has remained sadly unchanged over the centuries, on the contrary, which has perhaps been further aggravated by a desire for wealth that has led to the creation of real monstrosities in the field of the world economy. I am talking about seigniorage, i.e. the income derived from the issuance of money, that flow of money resulting from the difference between the real value and the commercial value of the printed banknotes. This gain is taken away from the Italian people by virtue of the loss of monetary sovereignty, carried out by a lobby of businessmen to the detriment of individual nations. A practice that has been made possible in our country also thanks to the uncontrolled transfer of shares of the Bank of Italy to private subjects, perpetrated in treason over the last twenty-four years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Scilipoti Isgrò. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, since I cannot conclude, I would kindly ask you to be able to deliver the written text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u37	Madam President, with this "cavallo di Troia" decree-law, as Senator Crimi rightly called it, the Government, while declaring something else, once again favours banks, promoting the collection of claims through faster but potentially deadly procedures for companies, also providing for a partial mess, because it is not fair compensation for swindled savers. With the non-possession pledge referred to in Article 1 of the decree-law, which guarantees the movable property of the company (activity, means, tools, equipment and now they also tell me credits), the contractual power of the already stronger entity, i.e. the credit institution, is actually increased, forcing the companies to accept the inclusion in the contract of the new discipline, only theoretically optional and not retroactive, once again questioning, here in Italy, the certainty of the law, as has already happened for photovoltaic renewable energies, penalty not to receive the credit. Article 2 of the Decree-Law provides that the real estate of the company that are not - goodness to them! - main residence will pass directly into the property of the bank in case of default in payment after a number of unpaid installments in a given period of time. A period of time which has also been extended in the Commission, but the instalments remain three, even not consecutive, and therefore far from the seven instalments that were considered necessary to claim the credit provided for in the 1993 legislation. In addition, the bank's credit magically prevails legally over all other creditors in the event of bankruptcy, both suppliers and workers and also the State with taxes. Articles 8 to 10 regulate the compensation for savers cheated in the rescue of the four popular banks through the sadly famous decree saves banks: a great admission of guilt of the Government. However, this compensation will only be for 80% and only for savers with a total income of less than 35,000 euros (we ask here the question if "complex" wants to mean of the household and, therefore, having replaced "complex" to "total" stands to mean a lowering of the level and even less creditors will have access to such compensation), or with a wealth of less than 100,000 euros. They are therefore rigid, inconceivable and limited, among other things, only to those who acquired subordinated bonds before 12 June 2014, i.e. before the publication of the bail in, which then has no relationship with this measure, also because the bail in became executive in December. The reasons for this date are therefore not clear. All others will have to make use of arbitration. So there will inevitably be paradoxes of millionaire refunds and missed refunds for incomes of a few thousand euros of difference and will not avoid recourses, with general damages for everyone, for entrepreneurs and for banks. In conclusion, repeating things already said several times and repeated also in the Commission by audits of some importance, but that we think always important to reiterate, the banks have long abdicated to their original function of supporting the real economy, able to provide the right to credit, which is constitutionally sanctioned, to individuals, families and companies, and to the duty to accompany and support in the path enterprises, small and large, initiatives, projects and start-ups. The banks, as you know, now concentrate almost all their activities in purely speculative functions in the financial field, pursued all too often with contempt for the risk of savers and with consequent enormous damage to the country's economy. This situation has over the years had a strong negative impact on the real economy and this is not said by the 5 Star Movement, but the analysts of the sector of the great economic crisis that has gripped us for decades. As if that were not enough, the banks too often devote themselves to competitive functions. Competition certainly unfair precisely in the business world that they should support, dealing with directly commercial functions, such as sales of goods and supply of services (now they are organizing to the best for the great real estate that will rain on them). The bank must return to its social role, it must strengthen its activity with the concrete productive fabric. Banks need to be pushed to risk alongside entrepreneurs and thus return to produce real wealth for all, creating tangible and tangible businesses that produce goods, services and work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u38	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u39	Madam President, the North League does not agree with the method by which this measure is being carried out, nor with the substance and content of this text, which, in our opinion, brings about very important changes in the relationship between banks and debtors, businesses and households. It seems to us that the issues and the importance of this provision are treated with much lightness, neglect, and little attention even by the media. Very relative measures which fill the gaps in parliamentary activity and are dealt with by spending a great deal of time in this House, with very detailed discussions and being able to deal with all the amendments one by one, by voting on them. On the other hand, whenever an important measure is carried out that has an impact on the real life of the people in difficulty, almost always the procedure adopted by this Government and this majority is the same, decree-law and vote of confidence, and this is unacceptable. Every time we try to eliminate the disturbance caused by parliamentary activity by the express will of the President-in-Office of the Council. It is an absolutely anti-democratic and authoritarian procedure that precedes what will happen if the constitutional reform promoted by Renzi passes. We must eliminate the disturbance caused by electoral vote and parliamentary activity in this House: these are the two cornerstones of legislative activity as the President-in-Office of the Council intends; an exercise of power without any influence on the representation of citizens. It is true that there has been an in-depth discussion in the Commission, but we must note two things. Firstly, the adoption of the amendments is, in our view, superficial. Amendments have been accepted which correct clear errors in the decree-law, and on those, of course, also the majority had to bow their heads and make amends; then there were amendments which would have substantially modified the measure on which the majority merely approved certain facade amendments which give an absolutely partial and insufficient response to very important aspects. On the substance of the measure, I want to make it clear that the North League has tabled a number of amendments to try to make a contribution to the correction of a decree-law that we absolutely do not agree with. We are prepared to withdraw most of the amendments that we have tabled in this House and to keep only 30 of them on the issues which we have also highlighted in the Commission and which we consider to be more important, provided that the debate takes place constructively in this Parliament as well. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] There are issues, then, that concern the first part of the decree-law, which have not found an effective response. We know that as far as the pact is concerned, the rule provides that after three unpaid instalments and a time that has been raised from six to nine months of non-payment, a very rapid procedure is set in motion in which the citizen has no opportunity to defend himself, in order to make him lose his property for the benefit of the banking institutions. You cannot tell me that having raised from six to nine months the time after which this mechanism is triggered is a substantial response to the observations of oppositions and even some senators of the majority. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] We had to increase the number of installments, we had to make sure that the unpaid installments were consecutive, we had to abolish the forecast of the implementation of the pact march for the contracts already in existence. The extension of the application of these new rules to existing contracts will obviously not result from an agreement of the parties, as you have said; the new legislation will be applied whenever a debtor goes to the bank and asks to review their claims and debt situations, or will ask for new loans. Whenever it does, it is clear that the bank will have a strong position to call for the introduction of the pact in the face of this debate. So this is a clear favor to the banks and it is a damage to the citizens, the craftsmen, the businesses and all those who are in difficulty. We have expressed doubts about the reduction of the role of the judicial officer in favor of this guardian, because although it is true that there is now a consolidated procedure in which the judicial officer is perceived as a hostile figure, it is also true that the latter has acquired a professionalism that, at times, allows him to make a positive contribution to solving very delicate situations. It is clear that all the guarantees that citizens had to defend themselves against the aggressiveness of these mechanisms that can put them on the brink. There is a fundamental change in the relationship between banks and citizens and between banks and businesses in favour of banks. We have also tabled a number of amendments to Article 9, because the requirements you have adopted for access to compensation are very strict. Senator Scilipoti Isgrò talked about the eye of the needle; well, we think it's easier for the camel to go through the eye of the needle than for a con saver to get compensation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is the truth about the provision. You have set a whole series of stakes with the European Commission, which are absolutely discretionary and detrimental to the rights of cheated savers. This was supposed to be the cornerstone of the measure, but it is not. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You want to give an answer on the surface, to say that you protect the swindled savers, when in reality you want to remove a political problem from the table with an absolutely inadequate and partial answer. There are too many issues to deal with in short time: the income of 35,000 euros; the discretionary date by which compensation can be recognised (obligations signed before 12 June 2014); all the documentation that the citizen must produce cheated; the complex procedures through which to obtain these compensations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u40	You have to finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u41	TOSATO (LN-Aut). They are absolutely inadequate answers, which demonstrate a single will of the Government, the one that has also carried out with the decree saves banks: to protect the interests of the strong and to abandon to themselves the sacred rights of the swindled citizens. This is your address and this is the direction of the provision, which we contest and in the face of which we manifest all our opposition. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u42	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law we are debating today, as this Government has accustomed us, is totally discretionary, it is a palliative. The government removes the poison from a wound, protects only one part without looking at the overall picture. In fact, it has not been studied a solution that is valid for all, which offers effective protection, even in the long term. From a text that enters into the issue of executions one would expect a regulatory intervention that, stopping the protection of creditors, finally prevents the sale of the goods of the executions. The debtor today suffers - pass me the term - in addition to the damage the mockery of seeing his property, even the real estate, sold at such low figures that he does not even cover the costs, really exorbitant and useless, of the procedures of enchantment. We are talking about a fall in prices which may even exceed 70% of the market value. Even creditors are not satisfied with such sales by remaining almost always at their mouths dry. At best, only banks get something from auctions. This would have been the only really urgent action in executive matters, yet the Government succeeds in the enterprise to worsen an already catastrophic legislation, harassing the debtors even more and leaving the creditors, except the banks, largely dissatisfied. With regard to the provisions relating to the investors of the banks in liquidation, what I would like to highlight most is the situation in which the investors of the People's Bank of Vicenza and Veneto Bank have capitulated. From the reading of Articles 8 and following of the measure in question, it is possible to understand how the urgent measures to be taken in favour of investors to be applied in the presence of certain conditions can only be implemented for investors of the following banks: Savings bank of Ferrara, Banca delle Marche, Banca Popolare dell'Etruria e del Lazio, Cassa di Risparmio di Chieti. Well the shareholders of the People's Bank of Vicenza and Veneto Bank will remain outside and will not be able to obtain any compensation. This is a large number of shareholders, which perhaps would be better described as victims. In fact, even Veneto Banca, as a popular bank of Vicenza, is forced to zero the value of the shares, although both are said to be available to go in conciliation with all their customers holding shares (since these shares are now so devalued and unsold, all this seems nothing more than an attempt to close the matter at a low price, without guaranteeing a fair and adequate compensation to the savers involved). It is also a matter of conciliations which, in most cases, start with a letter of claim for compensation and end with nothing in fact. My e-mail box is full of requests for help from savers, who underline the fact that Veneto Banca sold these shares without informing consumers of the possible risks, then lowering the value of 80-90 percent compared to a few months earlier and making it nothing in fact possible to resell them. They are families, workers, small companies and associations that have trusted banks in which they have invested for generations; people who have saved a life and now find themselves with no hand. But should this state not defend savings, as enshrined in Article 47 of the Constitution? In December 2015, for example, Veneto Banca had set the withdrawal price of the shares at 7,30 euros, effectively obliging shareholders who wanted to get rid of the shares to lose 81 percent of the value of each share and generating a violation of the rights and interests of consumers, established by the Consumer Code and the legislation of the banking and financial sectors. The shareholders of these banks are placed in such a situation of inferiority as to seem surreal. In fact, the two banks not only cut the price, but officially prevent the shareholders from using the right of withdrawal. The resulting losses are more than €7 billion: a figure greater than that of the other four banks combined mentioned in this draft law. It is unacceptable that savers should have to pay for the difficulties of banking institutions. To save the banks, in fact, could trigger the mechanism of the bail in, so precisely the owners of shares and bonds would be obliged to put the money in their own pocket to keep the credit institution afloat. There are so many small savers lining up in front of the consumer protection associations' counters and the hope that there will be compensation for their losses is increasingly remote. We do not take into account all those savers who were convinced of investing the savings of a lifetime, with the assurance that the risk would be very low, mainly because of the false and misleading communications of the boards currently under investigation, which, to be seen, have never been subject to effective controls by the supervisory bodies of the banking system. As often happens, it is workers, families and small entrepreneurs who were already courageously trying to make their way through a period of deep recession. I should like to conclude by wishing that a wider solution will be taken into account, which is actually aimed at ensuring that there is no total collapse of the confidence of savers in the entire banking system, involving shareholders and bondholders in such cases in order to try a shared solution, so that they are no longer excluded from the ECB. Above all, I hope that the repayment procedures will also be extended to the shareholders of the Venetian popular banks, in order to avoid an economic crisis that will weigh for decades on the economy and on Venetian society and beyond. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u44	Madam President, we are in the presence of a decree-law which contains different things. In my speech, I will focus on two major issues: the issue of compensation for frauded savers and the issue of offering to businesses. With regard to the savers' speech, we have compensation due, because these are people who had no fault in being involved in these incorrect ways. Well, they see themselves compensated as by a kind of grace, which comes to them from a government that, however, did not know how to protect them previously. Surely it is a partial refund and not for everyone, because there are laughable limits, because this concerns only those who have a very low income, below 35,000 euros, and a real estate below 100,000 euros. We think above all of those who exceed this income, but not as a result of fraud or corruption, but because they carry out activities that allow them to exceed that income threshold; the decree under consideration does not provide for compensation for them, despite what has happened stems from the fact that the banks have in no way complied with the rules, which should instead be respected when people are invited to invest, and have not offered clarity on the investments that their customers went to subscribe to. This has been for the benefit of those who work in banks and those who profit from these investment proposals: they continue to keep the additional profits deriving from investment proposals to savers unchanged. These questionable decisions have been taken and included in the decree-law at our examination, in which, as Senator Bonfrisco also said, the civil codes and civil procedure are changed and changes are made to the bankruptcy procedure. It is therefore a decree which, while not protecting citizens' rights, changes the rules. Moreover, it has not in any way, at least until now, wanted to respond to the absurd situation that the citizens of Pizzoli live. I am talking about what happened in the case of Banca Etruria in the country of Pizzoli: in this particular case, what falls on everyone at national level has become an unheard of gravity, since one in four inhabitants of that country has been cheated. In Pizzoli there are 4,000 inhabitants and 1,000 of them were invested by this scam. What is even more serious is that we did not want to take into account an agenda which at least asked to consider this situation. The compensation to these savers must be put in place 100%: it is in fact an earthquake area that has not even been rebuilt...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u45	I invite you to conclude, Senator Blondo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u46	BLUNDO (M5S). ...and investments in subordinate actions were also destined for reconstruction and guaranteed by decrees of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. I really wonder where we want to go: businesses are given the opportunity to borrow to buy equipment and then requisition property. Real estate does not make any credit and no one has considered that such a situation of acquisition of real estate becomes a further advantage for banks in bankruptcy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u47	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u48	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is being adopted in an urgent manner and once again we are seeing the use of the question of trust. In fact, the measure contains measures which are not urgent at all. It is very difficult to find a single article that highlights this need, perhaps excluding Article 10, but what is more serious, however, is that these rules are not decisive for the problems of banks. The measures of the Government that we have seen so far (and have not been few) have not brought any solution to the crisis of the banking system. It is true, on the contrary, that the European rules on supervision and the supervisory system itself have recreated, albeit with delay, a new framework of certainty. It has to be said that the Bank of Italy has been untimely on many of the measures taken and this intempescence prompts it now to consider favorably some measures adopted by the Government. In fact, if we had intervened earlier in the cases of the four small banks in extraordinary administration, we would have avoided today's decree-law to indemnify the scammed investors; however, what I think is most important and which is more important to us is that we would probably have avoided these scams. I would first like to point out, reminding myself and all my colleagues, that the compensation due to the unconscious investors of the four small banks will certainly weigh on general taxation. What does not convince us in this measure is the assumption that in order to solve the problem of corporate crises we now want to facilitate the procedures for the recovery of claims. In fact, banks are helped to sell their deteriorated loans on the market and institutions which, after purchasing them, will be able to recover them, forcefully and with easier procedures, including through out-of-court procedures. It will be possible to act on both real estate and mobile property, through the introduction into our system, as many have mentioned this morning, of the institution of the non-possession pledge. These are the assets that almost always constitute the main tools for the activity of a company or a professional. In this way a new hierarchy of creditors is created: the first creditors will not be the weakest subjects (employees and suppliers), but will become the credit institutions. In fact, in Italy banks did not reach the state of extraordinary administration because of the deteriorated loans, but, in most cases, for fraudulent financial transactions. The deterioration of the credits was only a consequence of the poor management, due to management groups of poor professional, ethical and moral quality. This is the case of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, Carige, the Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca, four banks that were large and in some cases prestigious. In their small also the Banca Popolare dell'Etruria, Carife, Cassa di Risparmio di Chieti and Banca delle Marche have shown, at best, that they have an inadequate management that has mismanaged them. The most distressing thing is the fact that while the supervision took even small steps to control them, the bad-managed banks were linked to each other by a sort of fil rouge, so much so that for absurdity when the Etruria Bank had already shown obvious signs of difficulty, the only offer of integration arrived was, ironically of the fate, that of the People's Bank of Vicenza, which also had problems and much more serious. In fact, it is the market that ultimately regulates everything and at the moment we are witnessing a very high level of speculation on our listed credit institutions, which is forcing them to continue to increase capital, even where these are endowed with important assets. There are currently banks with five times their equity capitalization, which means that stock prices are clearly subject to short-term speculation. On the other hand, it should be noted that long-term investment funds also enter the capital of Italian banks. This is certainly an important sign of the recognition of the intrinsic value of Italian credit institutions. On the one hand, therefore, the action of the ECB, on the other hand, that of the new criteria for banking supervision, have created the conditions for a stronger banking system - one can say - despite the unsolving interventions in this field of government. In reality, what is lacking and has so far been lacking (as nothing is created in nature, nothing is destroyed but everything is transformed) is a measure that goes to recover the resources stolen fraudulently from the banks from those who managed them; but above all there is still a lack of a framework of trust, greater regulatory, regulatory and control certainty that increases the volume of resources that banks allocate to the real economy. This is the serious problem we should be dealing with, and this should be our first concern because without this attention and without this desire to deal with the problem, we risk not engaging in this cyclical phase of economic growth. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u49	She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u50	Madam President, my speech will focus essentially on Articles 8 and 9, namely those concerning measures in favour of banks' investors in liquidation. The parliamentary work of these days has further improved the text of the decree-law, which - I say this clearly - has already represented a significant, significant step forward compared to the measure contained in the law of stability, obtaining a result capable of compensation to 100% all those who have been cheated. This is through exceeding the 100 million ceiling for the fund activated by the law of stability, because all those who have been cheated must be compensated, and will be compensated through the two methods provided for: automatic compensation and arbitration. I stress that with the prediction of automation, and the requirements for access to it, a choice has been made that has looked with great attention to the weakest groups. In the parliamentary passage, which has really constituted a significant and profitable work, also the reference to income of 35,000 euros, one of the two requirements for access to automatism, has been improved by establishing that the income to which reference is made is not the gross one but the total one, as defined in Article 3 of TUIR, with the important consequence of widening the audience of those who can access automatism. It is indeed a fundamental element which, together with the many other changes that have been made, improves the measure, thanks also to an important work done in the Commission, in a continuous understanding and common will between the majority and the Government, but also by all the Members of Parliament, which has also led to the acceptance of many of the proposals that have come from the citizens' associations. We have talked so far about automation, but I would also like to reiterate that the investor who wants to demonstrate the violation of the obligations of information, diligence, fairness and transparency, will be able to resort to arbitration by obtaining 100%. In this regard, I would like to clarify the importance of the content of Article 10, which provides for the adoption by the Government by 30 June of the implementing decree on arbitration procedures. This means that after July 2nd, the expiry date of the decree-law that we are approving, we will also have the implementing decree relating to arbitration and this, as Senator Mauro Maria Marino said, is important because it is essential that savers, who must be able to choose with knowledge whether to resort to automation or arbitration, have clear procedures. I would like to stress this because, in many parts, even in the hearings by the associations, of the citizens who have been cheated, arbitration has often been mentioned as a trap, something risky because the procedures are not clear; therefore, the decision to arrive at the implementing decree by 30 June is important. Allow me to ask myself, but also to you, what has produced this great change so significant from the law of stability to today. In fact, there were many people who asked me to do so. I am from Arezzo and many citizens have asked me why this solution, already recognized as very positive, has not been adopted before; because we have not done so immediately. It is good to say, out of political polemics, that they do not look to the good of people but only to the taste of confrontation, that this was not done simply because it was not possible. It was thanks to the continuous, pressing, proactive and tenacious action of the Government, starting with the President of the Council Renzi to Minister Padoan, who convinced Europe. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen, the caution with which, in tiptoe, Minister Padoan had to look in December for the adjectives with which to describe the fund of 100 million? It was forced - I use this verb - to use the term "humanitarian" in order to prevent Europe from having to close and stop at the bottom itself. A few months later, the European Commission, which had prevented different choices, through Margrethe Vestager, European Commissioner for Competition, said very clearly - I am referring to an interview by the Commissioner at the Corriere della Sera - that those who trusted the banks and were cheated must be compensated by the Government because this is an incorrect case of sale. So this is a great change, a great result that was neither obvious nor random because - I repeat - it is the result of a government action that has always had the objective of compensating all citizens, for whose scam the Government or this Parliament is not responsible. I would like to reiterate what has been the important outcome of this parliamentary process. Within the four categorical stakes of Europe (the 35,000 euros, the 100,000 euros, the date of 12 June and the ceiling of 80%), we have introduced great news: I have already talked about the enlargement of the audience; then there is the shift from the date of 2015 to 2014 as indicative date for the denunciation of the incomes on which to base the calculation of the 35,000 euros. This date has been anticipated by one year so that the time for determining the income of individual entrepreneurs, growers and others can be extended further, as they are bound to submit the Single Model. Another element of novelty is the extension of the deadlines for the submission of applications to the fund: in fact, it goes from four months to six months. And still of great importance is the facilitation for the documentation that the investor will have to attach to the application; such documentation must be provided by the bank within fifteen days of the request. I would also like to point out that the question of co-header has been clarified by the offices, which was a matter of great concern. With this decree-law and with the improvements made we respond to all those who had lost everything, and - I would like to say - not for the responsibility of the Government or of a decree (which instead comes down to disasters done by others). I say this in a special way because these are disasters that also arise - I should like to say very clearly - from poor and inadequate supervision, even guilty, in part by Bankitalia, but certainly in a substantial way by CONSOB: because if Bankitalia has by law the obligation of supervision for the purposes of the containment of the risk, the stability of assets and the sound and prudent management by the intermediaries, CONSOB instead has, also on the basis of Law n. 268 of 2005, the task of controlling the transparency and the correctness of the intermediaries, as well as, after the aforementioned law of 2005 (after having lived the terrible situations related to the Argentine bonds, Cirio and Parmalat) the control over the bank bonds. I wonder then why Consob, even after August 2013 when the burden sharing came into force (but also after) continued to allow subordinate bonds to be issued to be placed at retail, whose riskiness was hidden and whose yield, which went between 4 and 5 percent, was slightly higher than the other public bonds. I also wonder: why did Consob remove probabilistic scenarios from its sales prospects? President Vegas has said several times that this was banned by Europe, but that is not the case: Europe calls instead to include probabilistic scenarios in the sales prospectuses. I have listened to some of my colleagues, such as Senators Crimi, Blund and others, saying again, speaking of the four banks and in particular of Bank Etruria, that the latter is somehow the bank of PD, the bank of Renzi, the bank of the Boschi family. Look, if Bank Etruria is among the banks put into liquidation, the responsibility is not for any of these entities; the responsibility is, as with other banks, for maladministration. You know that the judiciary is also investigating criminal responsibilities, and I say this very clearly: I hope that those who have been wrong pay; I hope that the judiciary will quickly come to the conclusion of these investigations. What led the Bank Etruria to be wound up was precisely the bad management, the qualms with which loans and investments were made totally detached from the territory, the result of managements that for so long have been self-referential, as is also demonstrated by the report of the commissioner of Bankitalia that has certified over time the developments of the bad management of the bank. I think we should have a great responsibility, because recognizing the importance of this decree-law and the fact that it has the ability to give back to everyone what they have lost (because if you want to get back 100 percent, you can use arbitration), is a very important element. Social pacification is in the interests of the citizens and of a relationship between banks and territory, which must again be positive because the territories need a financial policy that can support them. If, instead, there are those who still choose, for the sake of controversy and for a few more votes, to make purely polemic without recognizing such an important passage, it means that it does not have at heart the interest of the citizens, but only the element of political speculation. This will take us not far away and will certainly not help a sound financial policy and, since the next challenge is the sale of the banks, a job to safeguard jobs because tens of thousands of people work in these banks. I think that the result that we bring home today with this decree-law is of great responsibility and opens new perspectives. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u52	Madam President, we in the Conservative and Reformist Group have tried to objectively and without prejudice to the decree-law before us. I do not want to say that we were immediately struck by the excessive favor towards the banking world and the banks concerned more directly by this type of decree, but certainly we have focused our attention on whether, at the outcome of the approval of the decree and the further conversion into law, there will be a further inequality on the part of the existing legislative system in favour of banks and further discrimination against companies and citizens that banks are not, especially for the relative part - my intervention focuses only on this aspect - to the collection of claims by banks. Not within the scope of all the technical and legal questions concerning the innovations introduced by the decree as regards the possibility of using innovative tools by banks. I just want to say that the decree, as has also been said during the illustration of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, certainly introduces some facilitations or, even, allows to skip, as far as the banks are concerned, passages of judicial protection. This is unconstitutional for us and, for this reason, we have voted in favour of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling by the other opposition groups. The measure also creates a further inequality against companies. We must not only address the problem of the banking world and credit institutions, but of all entrepreneurs and citizens who also have the right to meet their claims efficiently, just as with this decree we believe we can only do for banks. Let us think of how frustrating it is, at a time of economic crisis like today, for companies to collect their claims. I am just taking the example of public administration loans: a creditor company to public administrations is faced with a number of major obstacles. I am thinking of the system of debts of local and territorial authorities: very often we are faced with the impignability of sums, many other times we are faced with the impossibility of collecting credits because the administrations cannot pay for the limits of the Stability Pact, which does not even allow municipalities, provinces and regions not in crisis and with the treasury full of money to satisfy the credits of companies. Our attempt was then very concrete and pragmatic and aimed at introducing improvements to the decree-law that would restore a certain balance between the credits that must be collected and that the banking system fails to collect and the credits of companies and citizens that become B series credits. It is on the basis of the consideration of equal constitutional dignity that we must recognize this, both to the world of credit and to the concept, introduced in the Constitution, of the protection of savings, and to those who are entrepreneur and risk daily to guarantee work, development and economic growth. In this direction, with this ratio, we have to read some amendments which, suddenly, in the passage to the Commission were not considered in the right light, such as what was certainly a pragmatic and not ideological way to try to solve the problems, and not just of the banks. I am referring to amendments such as 4.15, which introduced a partial part of the sums made in the context of enforcement proceedings, even in the context of disputes between competing creditors or between creditors and debtors; it also wanted to recognise the claims not totally contested, but only partially, to be able to speed up and ensure a partial collection of the creditors that this right is compressed with the current system. I would also like to remind you of the amendments to Article 4 which sought to shorten considerably the time allowed for the implementation of real estate procedures. It is true that in recent years there has been an acceleration and improvement in terms of timing compared to the old enforcement procedures, which lasted over ten years and which, however, have recently become shorter. Sometimes, however, the fate of a commercial or industrial enterprise is linked to even shorter times. Our idea, therefore, was to speed up the time of the real estate executive process, not only by jumping to the legalization in favor of the banks, but also by trying to further streamline the executive procedures, even being able to avoid a series of referrals from one audience to another and trying to start immediately with the registration in role, with a procedure much more streamlined than that provided for by the current code of civil procedure. Amendments 4.65 and 4.67 have tried to mitigate the logic of the sale of real estate, trying to enhance them as much as possible. And I remember that the real estate that is the subject of real estate executive procedures sees its value significantly reduced for two reasons: the length of the procedures and, therefore, the time factor, and the fact that the procedures are carried out in such a way that the aim is not to achieve the maximum profit, the maximum increase - if you can use this expression - in the sale, but reduce heavily, with the referrals and the various passages, the real estate value. Our amendments sought, therefore, to optimize this stage as much as possible, which is critical and often sees the enterprise enter into a pathological situation from which, in times of economic crisis, it is difficult to get out. Other amendments were intended to ensure the continuity of companies in crisis, which are subject to enforcement and competition procedures, in a better way than that provided for by the current system, trying above all to guarantee the fate of companies even before the needs of the most pathological phase, that of the execution or even of the competition procedure. In other words, we have tried to improve the decree-law, restoring a substantial balance between credit institutions and companies on the basis of this function, which must be recognized yes to credit institutions, but also to entrepreneurs, who are the lifeblood of our economy, and especially to small and medium-sized enterprises. But first, the Commission, with rusty and certainly frustrating passages for those who had set themselves the objective of improving the text, and then even the vote of confidence on the maxi amendment that is coming, totally cancel our attempt. The decree-law under consideration - I do not want to repeat myself and use expressions now abused by all of us who are in opposition to this Government - constitutes the distinguishing figure and allows to decode the DNA of the Renzi Government. In this case we could say that they are close to the banks and far from the citizens and users of the same banking world, contiguous to the boards of the different credit institutions and insensitive to the dramas of members and accountants. And we note this distance also before the constructive and non-ideological amending proposals that I outlined earlier. We just wanted to speed up the executive process and help entrepreneurs in crisis, but we didn't want to listen to these kinds of instances. Therefore, we could conclude that the furrow that marked the distance between government and citizens became first a trenches and today a real ditch and the results of June 5 seem to attest to it plastically. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u53	Madam President, fellow senators, representatives of the Government, I would like to take a brief retrospective. I remember when we started talking about this: we were at the door of the Christmas break and we were all immersed in very complicated issues concerning Italian and European banking law. At first, it was all too easy to point the finger at Europe and to blame the Euro-Burocrats for what happened to Banca delle Marche, Carichieti, Carife and Banca Etruria. At the time, however, there were some questions that have not been answered so far: if the Renzi Government was so opposed to the European rules on bail in, why didn't it spend up to the last moment trying to oppose it? (at 12.28 a.m.) (Followed by Mr Quagliarello). If you had better ideas for bank resolution, why didn't you put them on the table? Why did you not use the strength of your representation in the Community institutions, as you have done or at least tried to do on other occasions? And again, ladies and gentlemen, once these rules, for good or for bad, have been enacted, why has the transfer of them into Italian law been carried on at two speeds, depending on whether they were administrators or savers? As we tried to remind the government in vain in those days, the two twin directives, one on the procedures for the recovery of banks, the other on the guarantee of the deposits of savers, had been approved and published in the Official Journal of the European Union - not by chance - at the same time, on the same day. Without one, the other would have been not only useless, but harmful. It was seen after a few days with what happened in our country. The Government, in fact, for a chance chance, has remembered to hastily transpose the directive on the reorganization of the banks (on 16 November 2015), just in time to apply it to the cases of the four banks in question and, in particular, of Bank Etruria (on 22 November 2015). For another chance chance, however, he forgot in the drawers of Palazzo Chigi, until March 8, 2016, the directive that created the deposit guarantee system of savers, who, in fact, have seen zero savings from evening to morning. Here too, however, we need some precision in the reconstruction. Not all savers have been able to clear their savings, because news leaked in the press (you have all read them) from Arezzo's attorney is suspected that some elected savers have been notified in time of what would happen. The alleged tip would have taken 288 million euros from the bank in a few weeks, creating a hole in the accounts and further accelerating the default of the Tuscan institution. All in spite of the unawares that those banks had entrusted the savings of a lifetime. Following the "guided failure" of Banca Etruria & Co. we were spectators of a theater of false promises and veiled suspicions advanced by some representatives of the Executive. On the one hand, in fact, since the last law of stability there have been assurances about an imminent solution; on the other hand, it has been suggested several times that these savers were guilty of a wrong investment. Some members of the Government have even compared them to entrepreneurs who take on the risk of enterprise. It would be easy to ironize the sudden rediscovery of the rules of the liberal market. We, who perhaps have a few more titles to talk about market laws and argue that they are the same for all and that those who earn the most risk, clearly say that these rules would be worth it if the Arezzo savers had been aware of what they were signing. From what emerges from the investigation and spread by the press, in this case things have gone quite differently. The managers of Banca Etruria would have led to the failure of the financial institution to grant large-scale loans to companies to which, in return, they asked for false advice. The same executives would have urged the subordinates to sell the subordinated bonds to the counter. The officials, then, in order to comply with the order, would even falsify the risk profiles of the customers, giving them degrees and qualifications never achieved. Documents were found in which 90-year-old pensioners declared, without their knowledge, that they did not want to withdraw the money invested for the next ten years. Evidently, their life expectancy is long enough and this reminds me of the German writer who said that at the age of one hundred he did not worry about dying because he read the obituaries and found that at his age there are not many people who die. Elements like these can only bear witness to a heavy responsibility on the part of the leaders of Banca Etruria. In front of this kind of "mud" reported in the newspapers (as defined by the President-in-Office of the Council in this House), the Premier himself thought, in the beginning, to dump again the boiling potato on the ubiquitous Raffaele Cantone, a sort of passepartout: to him the tedious and ungrateful task of making the selection among savers who - I quote - fell into the category 7-8 percent of interests consciously taken by those who "preceded 7-8 percent" unknowingly. Colleagues, the percentage of customers allegedly cheated by Banca Etruria seems to be so high that even the new leaders of the so-called good bank have tried in vain to speed up the times, proposing to the Government to provide for a first partial reimbursement financed with autonomous resources. As the investigations proceeded and the reports of the Bank of Italy were made known, the Government also had to take note of the unsustainability of this affair, so much so as to put aside Canton, to give the well-serviment to Ambassador Sannino (then head of the Italian Representation to the European Union and defined too soft in the negotiations with Europe) and magically transform a high-level government technician like Carlo Calenda into a diplomat of the Republic. To Carlo Calenda - we have understood this later - the arduous mission of making a big voice in Europe to obtain more resources without running into the obstacle of state aid. Money, these, intended for the compensation of Banca Etruria's excel investors. The 100 million allocated in the stability law - we said this in times not suspicious and I believe that President Sangalli can be my witness - would have been absolutely inadequate to fill a hole of 328 million euros. So much for the losses incurred by savers. It is no coincidence, colleagues, that the appointment of the current Minister for Economic Development Calenda in the prestigious Representation of Brussels dates back to 19 January, the Union's clearance of the increase in capital to 300 million euros of the Fund for savers arrived on 20 April, and Carlo Calenda returned the feluca only 16 days later to be promoted to head of the Dicastery of Via Veneto. On April 29, now at the twenty-second decisive week - because every week it was announced as such - the decree for compensation finally saw the light. Better late than never, they will have thought the 10,559 currentists protagonists of this bitter affair. Sure, because they still didn't know that this wouldn't be the good time - I try to speak in understandable language to the government - and that they would find themselves in front of many forks, many of which would take them to the streets without exit. For example, between those who made the investment before 12 June 2014 and those who had signed it later, there is a big difference. The watershed date - not surprisingly - is the date on which the two twin directives were published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The second category will be able to enter only the long and cumbersome road of arbitration, while for those who have investments before June 2014 the road of automatic compensation also opens. Automatic yes, but with many if: if the income is less than 35,000 euros; if the assets are less than 100,000 euros; and in any case, in the most rosy case, the refund cannot be more than 80% than invested; net of charges and purchase costs; net of the difference between the overall return on the securities charged and the return on the government bonds. And if it ever happened that this difference was to the advantage of the investor, this will be reduced by the compensation sum. Those who opt for one of the two solutions will then be automatically excluded from the other. Basically, translating into Italian - and I ask the Government if I understood correctly - we are saying to these 10,559 our fellow citizens: "You have been cheated, you have lost your savings, sometimes the savings of a lifetime, but deep down if you earn more than 1,500 euros per month or you have other financial investments of the value of a car box in Rome, or if when you were deceived by your bank you were not aware that a European directive had come into force, that the Government would not have ratified except when useful for the Etruria case, then, your scam is nothing and you do not need to be compensated." It would be worth commenting on: This is not the market, beauty! Colleagues, this system effectively discourages access to arbitration by haunting savers with a so-called automatic refund which, as I have tried to prove, is not automatic. They then take two pigeons with one stone: they deceive the savers to be able to recover at least partially what was lost and avoid - as would have happened thanks to the arbitration - to make known the percentage of the investors reckless, as defined by the Premier, and therefore avoid, by difference, knowing how many investors are cheated by Bank Etruria. At this point we were deluded to be able to exercise our role as legislators, by amending the decree during the examination in this branch of Parliament, but also the last flame of hope was extinguished when we realized that any hypothetical amendment had to be included in amendments signed by the rapporteurs, subject to nothing from the Government. When we come to this House, with equally democratic methods, the question of trust in both Chambers is announced. Senator colleagues, government representatives, after this exhausting affair, of which much still needs to be known and much should be discussed, I cannot really find any reasonable reason to vote in favour of this measure. It is obvious to me that I am a member of the opposition, but perhaps some colleagues in the majority should also think about it. In this case, giving the Commission blank confidence is not just a mistake, it is really something more. And perhaps it would be worth not having "moral" correlations with such a measure. [[Applause from the Group (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u54	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u55	Mr President, it would have been interesting if the MPs of the PD, so good at defending this measure, had come out of this building yesterday morning, where there were investors who were blatantly conned and now also ignored, as the man who even committed suicide because he had lost his dignity as well as his savings was ignored. But this is forgotten, and we are talking about the Solidarity Fund in this measure, because the Democratic Party is good, as are the Premier and Minister Boschi, whose father is a good person. Think that he even went to school on foot, as if the rest of the Italians had done who knows what until now, or had not worked and the savings of a lifetime had fallen from the sky. Aren't these good people? They go on television and say that those savers behaved like speculators, wanted to earn more and then they also accepted the risk. It would have been interesting, instead, to have here the dear father, person for good, of Minister Boschi, Minister Boschi, Minister Padoan and Renzi to ask some questions for precise answers. It would have been interesting to know everything behind the 15 million false invoices issued by Bank Etruria. And we should ask for explanations on why the directors, plus five mayors, among which there was also the father of Boschi (person for good), have granted 198 positions of trust for 185 million euros. They used 142 and 108 didn't come back. Then why doesn't one hundred percent of the malt go back to our poor fellow citizens? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It would also be interesting to know, since Bankitalia, CONSOB, Padoan, Renzi, Boschi and Boschi's father (person for good) knew, that since February 2012 the agency Fitch has lowered the rating of Bank Etruria, and this therefore, could no longer address those institutional markets where professional investors could calculate the risk. And instead they also deceived on fake returns. Let us remember that, at a time when you have skilfully drawn those actions subordinate to our fellow savers - real good people who have worked a lifetime - you did not tell them that. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Did you even disinvest the BTPs and what did you give in return? While those BTPs had a yield of just over 4% and Banca Intesa - we take the most solid bank - went over 6 percent, they took 3.50 percent: less than all. They've been conned more than once. And then Padoan and the Governor of Banca d'Italia Visco go on television to say that the proposal of citizenship income is useless, but they also say that they have not even read it, as perhaps they have not read even the questions that desperately try to have answers. There were dozens and dozens of savers out here who want these answers. You would have had to repay 100% because, with the complicity of the Government and with the father of Minister Boschi, a decent person, who sat on that board of directors for years, and not in the last six months, you have cheated those people skilfully and you are deceiving them and insulting them again, again and again and again and you can't give answers. You can make pro-banks and pro-large companies measures, but when it comes to small entrepreneurs who have invested the savings of a lifetime and who, unfortunately, are not called Marchionne or "Riva d'Ilva," then everything is silent, everything is infuriated and covered up. That's what you're doing. If not, I'll call the Adusbef all savers. Have the courage, face and transparency to bring Pierluigi Boschi, father of the Boschi and good person, the Boschi itself, Padoan, Renzi and all the majority out of the buildings without escort, to go and talk to those people you are still stealing money from. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] MATTESINI (PD). What are you talking about? I've been there alone all the time. Mr Lezzi (M5S). You are dishonest and in this House, in television programmes and newspapers you cannot embrace honesty, even in the face of the most blatant evidence of the facts. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u56	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, as well as the whole of the Forza Italia Group, do not agree with this measure and I will try to explain the reasons. However, I think it is right to acknowledge first of all the rapporteurs Zeller and Mauro Maria Marino - and the latter too as President of the Commission - and the Undersecretary Baretta, who was allowed in the Commission to work on the measure and express his views, opinions which have sometimes been taken into account - in our opinion, too little - and all too often not. In any case, the debate has been in-depth and, in some respects, albeit minority, useful. I hope - and I am counting on the correctness of Mr Marino, his co-rapporteur, Mr Zeller and Mr Baretta - that the maxi amendment that will shortly come to our examination will really take into account the work done and the amendments that have been adopted in the Commission. Let's move on to the measure. The first part of the measure, essentially, through a series of articles, tends to compensate for one of the great shortcomings of our country, namely the fact that, when a creditor finds a debtor who does not want or cannot pay, in reality, to recover his credit, the times are biblical. The main road would have been to make a real reform of civil justice, both in the rules and in the functioning. The measure is a partial response to a problem that actually exists. What is the problem that I think is right to stress in this matter? When a large or medium-sized enterprise or a structured enterprise is confronted with the bank, which is in this case the creditor, it is equipped: it has a lawyer, it knows what it is about, it has a determined contractual power. But when the debtor is a very small craftsman, a small entrepreneur who has three or four employees, he does not have an efficient legal office and, if he goes to the lawyer, he has to pay the fee (and we hope that it is correct and does not try to create goodwill towards the bank he deals with). I mean, we don't have a fair deal. In the pact they march - for example - logically allows those who already have contracts in place to also sign the new pact, giving additional guarantees. When a debtor gives additional guarantees to a creditor, he expects to have some advantage, such as a greater delay in payment times or a decrease in interest rate. We had foreseen that there was an obligation in this respect, but our amendment was not adopted. What we are asking is that, apart from some improvements that have been made (less draconian times have been granted in return or before taking possession of the good), there is supervision by the Government because the weak person, who is above all the debtor not well organized and structured, does not succumb to the bank, which is certainly more equipped. With regard to the question of reimbursements, we have tried to work because the stakes, which - as the rapporteur, Mr Marino, has correctly mentioned - have been introduced in the measure following the negotiations carried out by the Government with the European Community, were somewhat enlarged, in order to give more, to create less problems, and constraints, in order to ensure that the documentation that must be produced is less in quantity and does not involve difficulties, precisely in order to benefit, even in this case, the weakest scams, compared to those that may be more. I would like to highlight two aspects from this point of view, which are very important. Firstly, as the rapporteur has said, it is essential that the agenda approved unanimously by the Commission is actually implemented by the Government and that the Government is quick to issue the arbitration rules. The rapporteur has already explained this point and I do not waste any more time to explain the need for it. I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur for pointing this out. Secondly, there is an agenda which calls for tax interpretation to be done in such a way that the person who is reimbursed (with an 80% refund for those who do not use arbitration, while we do not know how much the arbitration will give) is not further taxed. From this point of view, we know that someone believes that they are taxable and someone else that they are not. The Finance Committee unanimously adopted an agenda which says that they should not be taxed. I hope that this aspect will be taken into account. I would also like to turn to another point which I think is important, Article 12, on which the rapporteur has also emphasized. The banking system needs profound restructuring. It is necessary to reduce costs in order to be internationally competitive. The use of modern technologies involves restructuring, which involves sacrifices for the number of people who can work. The possibility of using the Solidarity Fund has been provided for, but in a way that is too partial; some elements need to be further expanded. I regret that certain amendments have not been accepted and that it has not been possible to adopt unanimously an agenda which at least sanctioned what I am about to say, which I consider essential. I would like to use a few minutes to explain what Forza Italia considers necessary for the country's economy. In our territory there has been a phenomenon that must not be underestimated: in the presence of a dramatic economic crisis, savings have increased in recent years, for two reasons. The first reason is that the income scissors between rich people and those with an average and poor income have expanded in an disproportionate way, so that there are people who don't know where to put their money. The second reason, which is even more relevant, is that people with medium, low or poor incomes, if they have any savings, because of the terrible fear for their future, do not spend what they have and increase their savings, reduced to bone, maybe making sacrifices in their standard of living, eating less or eating meat once less a week. If you don't give the workers peace of mind for their future, you won't get a spider out of the hole. I say very clearly that the introduction of the 80 euro bonus or the hypothesis of citizenship income, carried out by the 5 Star Movement, are not useful to the country's economy. For God's sake, they help people who receive money, but they do not serve the country's economy, which needs to resume investment and people have prospects for their future. Gentlemen, I am an old memory of what happened in our country in the fifties that, it is good to remember and keep a little' in mind. The largest Italian company - FIAT, not to mention names - had two characteristics. In the first place, it boasted to increase its employed - 70,000, 100,000, 120,000 or 200,000 people employed - and, secondly, the CEO, who had on his shoulders the company, earned 30, 40 or 50 times - not even 100 - how much the FIAT worker earned less. Now, in the world and also in Italy, you are rewarded by the market if you quit the workers and those who manage the companies, maybe one or two years before you bring the books to court or declare default, earn 2,000, 3,000 or 4,000 times what the workers of that company earn. This is a paradox, an abnormity that will lead to disasters, and we must bear that in mind. In Europe in 1968, first in France and Germany, then in 1969 in Italy - from us it arrived a little late, but it lasted longer - there was hot autumn as a response to the fact that the country's growth had not been sufficiently balanced. On a social level, we're really much worse now. If, instead of adopting buffer measures, we succeed in rebuilding a virtuous relationship based on the work and tranquility of those who work, I believe that we will do a good and positive thing. That is why I believe that Article 12 should say that the banking sector, where major restructuring will take place and where there are people who have been very well in recent years, will be helped by us to restructure and improve, in order to create the least possible social damage. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u58	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u59	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the debate and some speeches have left me very surprised. Therefore, I will devote two minutes to them, because I believe that assessments have been made which are absolutely not acceptable and far from reality. I would like, however, in anticipation to acknowledge the Government, President Marino and rapporteur Zeller that they have allowed very fruitful work to be carried out in the Commission, which has seen all the forces of majority and opposition contribute positively to the work and improvement of the measure under consideration today. I also acknowledge Mr Carraro's correctness, as always, because he intervenes in the same way in the Commission and in this House. He, in fact, although he did not fail to show limits and shortcomings from his point of view, acknowledged a positive work, unlike other interventions in which, in the constructive climate recorded in the Commission, then in this House, he followed real propaganda meetings with various insults. On two points, Senators Crimi and Carraro began and closed the debate. Senator Crimi has made a number of critical remarks, stressing the difficulty of credit in supporting the real economy, focusing on the topic of productivity and the need for modernization of industrial machinery. These are all situations absolutely far from reality, since the issue of interventions on the entire credit system and on the strengthening of the banking system is aimed at enabling the improvement of support for the real economy; on the other hand, the measures taken, with the Sabatini law and with the super depreciation, have led to very positive results in the industrial machinery sector, so much so that from this point of view the recovery has been very vigorous and strong in the mechanical and manufacturing sector in which we are world leader. It has, therefore, a double positive effect. If we want to highlight the issue of productivity that has gripped our country for twenty years, I believe that the various and different opinions that have been measured have given us a sense of the difficulty, of the difficult situation that we live in. Until 1995, in fact, the dynamics of our country's productivity has been in line with that of other European countries and in the last twenty years we see a situation of swamps, stagnation, which is a real problem. Probably it is right who among the observers has identified the real cause in the blockade, in paralysis, in the lack of reforms that in the end, in the competition with globalization, and therefore with a global competition, all our country system with its backwardness (from the public administration, to the labour market, to the training, to the tax and to whatever else) has taken advantage and continues to serve. And only now with the vigorous reform season are we trying to get out of this difficulty. On the subject of savings, I would like to point out to Mr Carraro that, at an early stage, we had a recomposition of the stock of household savings that had consumed it in the years of the crisis. In fact, the data tell us that the recovery of GDP, precisely in the face of the difficulties of global trade, is supported by domestic demand, the resumption of building loans, consumer credit, the purchase of cars, houses and so on. There is, in fact, a recovery in confidence and expenditure, which is also supported by some measures. It is true - as you yourself have emphasized - that an important part of our country lives below the poverty line and, therefore, we need measures that go from the income of social inclusion, to the support for the dependent children, to the support to the medium-low incomes, to the renewal of the contracts that, in reality, serve not only to give economic boost to the country and confidence to the people, but also and above all have the value of social justice measures that no longer can be postponed. The decree-law that we are about to convert into law today is an important measure that is part of a comprehensive reform of the Italian banking sector, which in turn is part of the wider process in place at European level. Since the beginning of 2015, the Government has launched a reform process aimed at making credit institutions more competitive and enhancing their role in supporting the real economy. In particular, the reform of popular banks and the most recent reform of cooperative credit banks should be mentioned. The positive effects of the reformative action put in place with these measures will be observed in the coming months, contributing decisively to the strengthening of these banks and, in general, the Italian banking system, promoting their capital consolidation, improving governance models and credit assessment systems of companies, as well as increasing the supply of finance. Within this strategy it is worth remembering that the Government then intervened with several measures on the main obstacle to the restart of the credit, represented by the amount of the deteriorated credits accumulated in the balance sheets of the banks. In this regard, I would like to recall Decree-Law No 83 of 2015 (so-called bankruptcy decree), which introduced measures to make debt recovery more efficient and facilitate the use of negotiated forms of corporate resolution, providing for full and immediate deductibility of credit losses. With this last forecast, the tax treatment of credit write-downs has been aligned with that of the other main countries, allowing to increase provisions on deteriorated loans and to reduce disincentives to their disposal. The subsequent Decree-Law No 16 of 2016 (so-called banking decree) provided for a State guarantee mechanism, at market prices, to cover senior tranches issued in the framework of securitisation operations, carried out in response to the sale by financial intermediaries of non-performing credit portfolios: a central role in facilitating the transfer of non-performing claims and the creation of an efficient market for such claims, which can take place thanks to the important role that will be called upon to play the Atlas Fund. This is a broad strategy which, in line with the new European measures, should reconstruct a new relationship between investors and the credit sector, and between the latter and the real economy, in order to bring them into line with the needs of the current economic situation. Finally, a positive systemic notation concerns the fact that the measure in conversion is part of an overall cultural rethinking of the various procedures that are activated in the face of non-payment of credits. The decree-law, in fact, arrives a short time from the bill delegates for the organic reform of the disciplines of the crisis of enterprise and insolvency where, in line with the orientation adopted by the main European systems, it has been attempted to express a new vision of the state of financial difficulties, even serious, seen as a possible physiological evolution of the cycle of business, to be prevented or managed at best. On the merits of the individual provisions, measures on insolvency proceedings and enforcement procedures are important, in addition to those already launched a few months ago, which, together with the so-called pact, will help to simplify compliance and streamline procedures for the recovery of claims. All the interventions will have a positive impact on the real economy as banks that are more easily covered by their loans will have more space in the budget to lend to companies. As far as the repercussions on the production system are concerned, I should like to point out one thing. The Italian situation with regard to outstanding claims has peculiarities compared to other countries. A coherent response can only move along two lines: to speed up the recovery of banks' claims towards companies, aligning Italian times with the recalled international best practices; to make the guarantee system that assists the financing more flexible, in order to facilitate the acquisition by companies. The legislation introduced and under discussion today is built around these two guidelines, thus responding to a requirement repeatedly represented by the entrepreneurial class, namely to return efficiency and profitability to the credit system in order to ensure greater availability of credit and better conditions, for the benefit of the real economy. In particular, the measures taken will have a positive impact not only on the opening of new funding lines, but also on the renegotiation of existing funding. Thanks to this text, it will be easier for businesses to obtain funding from credit institutions, which can rely on simplified and rapid procedures to recover sums paid in the event of default in payment of instalments. The Marche pact provides for the out-of-court assignment of the property data to guarantee a financing and is the most important novelty among those of the decree-law. It provides for the possibility that, in the event of a loan, the parties may enter into a contract for the transfer of an asset as a guarantee of repayment. In case of default of the debtor, the bank enters into possession of the property in a very simple procedure, without the passage to the judicial system; the debtor is however responsible for the difference between residual debt and the value of the property, which is estimated by an independent expert, appointed by the judge. For the short time available, I will not dwell on other important aspects, but they have been highlighted by various speeches by my colleagues and the rapporteurs. For example, measures affecting financing contracts already concluded and renegotiating these contracts are important; measures amending bankruptcy law and insolvency proceedings, as well as the impact of other important measures such as the non-possession pledge, are important. In essence, the measure under consideration introduces elements of functional rebalancing of the legal and economic system able to favor an effective factor of support to the real economy, contributing to the revival of the productive fabric of the Country. The interests at stake are balanced by safeguarding the principles of good faith and contractual correctness. In the current economic context, it is crucial to ensure that, in the face of an accelerated lane for the recovery of claims, garrisons are introduced capable of generating concrete benefits for companies in terms of the amount, cost and duration of the financing, which will have to be more sustainable for the same companies, contributing, in line with the line adopted by the ECB, to outline a national policy for the anti-cyclical credit.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u60	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Zeller.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u61	Mr President, I believe that the concerns expressed by several parties, especially by the opposition forces, with regard to this decree-law are not justified. Instead, I believe that the new instruments introduced by the decree-law and perfected by our work in the Commission will lead Italy to be at the forefront in Europe. We must not forget that for several years, if not decades, it has been in doctrine but also in the major international conferences on modern credit guarantees, it has been strongly called for to modernise the instruments that are in force today. We must remember that most of the guarantee systems date back to 1942 and have not been done since then. It is true the criticism of Senator Carraro, according to which an overall intervention in this matter would also be necessary without recourse to the instrument of the decree-law, but this will happen with the law delegation, which is being prepared, on the reform of the civil process. The government preferred to anticipate some points of this great overall reform that were urgent and this explains the adoption of the decree-law. To see, I believe that the result is positive, because in other countries too we have been trying for years to reform the system of guarantees without, however, so far the results have been very flattering. I am thinking of the debate that has been taking place in Germany for years, where we hope to adopt the same instruments that we are discussing today in Italy, and which have already been implemented without the German Government being able to give a valid response so far. On the other hand, I do not think it is even convincing to say that these instruments produce a strengthening of the power of banks at the expense of the debtor, because there are always two sides to a medal. In fact, there are also opportunities for the debtor, who, in the absence of these instruments, perhaps would have more difficulty having access to credit because banks would be even more reluctant to finance an undertaking in the absence of the appropriate guarantees or instruments for the swift satisfaction of their credit law in the event of default by the debtor. Even from the point of view of advertising, nowadays the most important thing is that everyone is aware of the current balance sheet of a debtor because only in this way can they decide whether or not to open the credit. (The sitting was suspended at 13:18) (The sitting was suspended at 1 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Both the institution of the non-possession pledge and the prediction of the pact march respond to this requirement. Recalling the importance of my colleague, Mr Carraro, with whom we have worked well in recent weeks by incorporating several amendments of his political side, the request to provide for an obligation on a contractual part to grant a more favourable treatment to a debtor at first sight seems very well founded; but, to see it, we realized that it is quite obvious, because no debtor will accept a pact march if he does not have in return something positive like a delay in the repayment of the installments by the banks, a better interest rate or some other counterpart. If this is not the case, no entrepreneur will be so careless as to give a property under warranty to get nothing in return. That is why I believe that writing it normally would have been useless and even harmful, because it would have opened up possibilities for defaulting creditors. We all know that the great evil in Italy is not only the many lawyers, one of whom is the rapporteur, but also the many possibilities that we legislators have introduced in recent decades with tricks, exceptions and cumbersome procedures, which have always allowed us to find a reason to prolong executions, establishing long and costly procedures. I think that the competitiveness of Italy suffers also for this reason, because we do not write the laws clearly, we insert the possibility of making exceptions everywhere and make the law texts illegible. With this measure, which already deals with a very complex matter, we have tried to simplify as much as possible precisely to change the way we legislate. The aim of the measure is not only simplification, but also acceleration. And it can only be accelerated if there is no possibility of blocking proceedings by a debtor. This is the only way to increase trust between businesses and banks. In the event of an opening of credit, in fact, the fundamental certainty of the law is given. By accepting many amendments from my fellow Members, we have improved the text and made it less legally attackable. On the question of the application of the contracts already in existence I have already extended, because we have studied and discussed for a long time a procedure that allows the debtor to block the injunction, offering, on his own initiative, a pact march, and forcing in this way the bank to express itself on the acceptance or not of this guarantee. It was a long and complex structure and, in the end, together with the Government we decided to abandon this path, for the simple reason that introducing a sub-process into an injunctive procedure would perhaps be counterproductive. This too we have foreseen in this decree-law: that the creditor who obtains an injunctive decree waits, evidently, for this to become executive and that, if within the famous forty days there is no opposition, it cannot be blocked. As for allowing the debtor to offer, within forty days, a real estate guarantee in exchange for the blocking of the enforceability of the injunction, knowing also the practices of debtors who, understandably, at a time of difficulty, use all the tools at their disposal to avoid the inevitable, in that case we would have gone against the main purpose of this decree-law: to facilitate, simplify and accelerate. In this sense we have abandoned this path, but the comparison and the ideas offered by colleagues were very useful. We have taken everything Members have said seriously, and we have analysed the proposals individually. Those that seemed to us to conform to the spirit of the decree-law we accepted, others instead, no, but always in a spirit of consistency. With the system of estimates and the strengthening of the third-party guarantees of the expert, we have improved the text by avoiding distortions. One issue remained incomplete. The incompatibility or exclusion of anti-competitive behaviour of banks and intermediaries. In fact, this topic had been placed there: a bank cannot transfer the property of the debtor and, at the same time, act as broker and broker real estate. On this subject it was not possible to identify the solution in this decree-law, but the Government has undertaken to address it either in the competition measure or in another specific provision, because the issue has been well placed by the colleagues of the opposition, and surely a solution must be found. The same goes for the theme of rentals and the attempt to resolve it in this provision. It was not possible because the decree-law is not the right place to regulate such an important institution. The Government has also made a political commitment to address the issue of leasing discipline in a special measure. It is necessary in fact to face the discipline for the pathological phase of a leasing shop, because today unfortunately - it is a unicum creed in Europe - the leasing contracts are not subject to a discipline of law, as it was for the pact march before this decree-law came into force. [[Senator Martelli points out that he wants to intervene]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u62	I call the rapporteur, Senator Marino Mauro Maria.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u63	Mr President, Members of the Government, I would like to thank all my colleagues who have spoken in this debate. Allow me to reply quickly to those speeches that I felt worthy of consideration, because in some cases - I regret to say - I was more faced with a meeting than with precise and punctual observations. This basically indicates that in the debate there were different nuances depending on whether the intervention had followed the work or had not had this luck. However, for the respect that I owe them, the first answer goes to Senator Stefani: the problem that we pose is not to save the banks, but to be useful to the country. And when it is said that we are faced with commercial interventions - let me say, with all due respect - we do not see the picture of the things we are doing. I had used the metaphor of the pearl in the necklace, which Senator Bernini, with her cordial courtesy, criticized, but the series of measures really give the sense of an overall vision: just to remind them, it is the intervention that has been done on the shares of Bankitalia, the significant intervention on popular banks, which is beginning to produce fruits that are recognized by all, because the popular banks today are certainly stronger than before, and the intervention on cooperative credit banks, with the related aspects of the guarantee of securitisation and suffering. Fortunately we found ourselves prepared on these themes, because as 6a The Commission has carried out two surveys which have represented the fertile substratum on which it was then possible to sow. In fact, the overall vision has the ability to try not to solve the individual problem, although noteworthy (as the Senator Blundo, who is the one that concerns the specificity of the Pizzoli area, has rightly pointed out in her speech), but to intervene systematically in favour of citizens and savers. It is so true that the big mistake made by Senator Blundo in his speech is when he said "35,000" and "100,000" (he certainly did so in good faith, because I saw that some amendments were tabled precisely because there had been a bad interpretation of the norm, having clear where they wanted to go but ending up going in the opposite direction). I would point out that of the four parameters it is not "e" but "o", which widens the audience in a huge way, because it is sufficient that there is one of the two for the purpose of the possibility of respect and flat-rate access. It seems to me that this is a necessary and important specification to get out of the logic of misunderstanding. In the same way, in this overall view it certainly does not escape that, as Senator Mandelli said, of which we have accepted a significant intervention, in Italy the crisis of banks is not caused by non-performing loans - this is very clear - but comes from other situations. It is, however, the crisis of some banks and not of the banking system, which has some critical elements, but it is absolutely solid. As has been explained during the hearings, speeding up the collection time means that what, with reference to the stock of credit in distress (which currently is around 200 billion, of which 83 net), there is a progressive and very fast reduction that leads to 165 billion if the times go from seven to four years. These are the real elements on which we must concentrate and which have tried to represent the inspiration of the action that the rapporteurs, in total agreement with the Government, have carried out. In response to President Carraro's statement, we will ensure that there is a coincidence between the text approved in the Commission and the maxi amendment, but I think this is in line with the behaviour of the Government. We have no doubt, also because the work done in the Commission with the involvement of all (from the Government, the majority and the minority) has been of quality, as has been remembered both by Senator Mattesini, and by President Carraro himself (thank you for this public recognition). As stated at the beginning, we are faced with a Copernican revolution that concerns the change in the relationship between the customer and the banks, as determined by the BRRD directive. We are going to manage exceptionally a transition phase knowing that exceptionality will no longer apply to the future, but we are doing so with a conscience of cause, convinced of making a significant contribution to the country system, within an overall plan of banking reform and not as a single spot. This is the bet that we're playing and I think that, continuing like this, together we can win it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government. [[Senator Martelli points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I would like to raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment that I am going to present, entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 2362, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 59 of 3 May 2016, which incorporates the amendments proposed by the Commission. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] MARTELLI (M5S). I asked for the floor earlier.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u65	Senator Martelli, I think your intention was to ask for the floor to make a proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles. However, this had to be done during the general discussion. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Minister Boschi has been given the floor for his reply and the Presidency can only take note of the question of confidence in the adoption of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, the Presidency forwards the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly of the financial coverage profiles. I therefore call on the Conference of Group Leaders to organise the debate and suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 13.34 p.m. and resumed at 13.55 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u66	I communicate the determinations taken by the Conference of Leaders. The debate on confidence will be devoted one hour and twenty-five minutes; then one hour and forty minutes will be reserved for explanations of vote. Therefore, the call for the vote will be orientally between 4 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. I suspend the sitting pending the determinations of the 5th standing Commission. (The sitting was suspended at 13.56 p.m. and resumed at 15.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u67	I give the floor to the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Tonini, to report to the House on the financial cover profiles of amendment 1,900.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u68	Mr President, the 5th Commission has examined the text of the maxi amendment with a certain amount of attention and gives a clear view of the four-observation cover profiles, which we are allowed to pass on to the Government in order to take account of this in presenting the maxi amendment to the House's confidence. The first comment concerns the part of amendment 1,900 included in the amendments made in the conversion to Decree-Law No 59 Where changes are made to Article 1 (7), after point (b), which ends with the words: It was therefore, of course, skipped in the transcription of the amendments approved in the Commission to the amendment tabled by the Government, letter c. In point (c), the words: "of the undertakings" are replaced by the following: "of the former paragraph 4" is replaced by the word: "assessment" is replaced by the following: "determination" is replaced by the words: "the creditor foreclosure" immediately communicates in writing to the employer of the guarantee itself, "is replaced by the following: "the creditor foreclosure" immediately communicates in writing to the provider of the guarantee the consideration and the other conditions of the lease agreed with the relevant holder." This letter has jumped into the transcript and we make it clear to the Government that it may propose its reintegration. Subsequently, in paragraph 7-b, there is a change in the text which has been positively assessed by the 5th Commission in the consultative forum. I am referring to the period which reads: The judicial officer, if not of immediate identification, shall use at the request of the creditor and at the expense of the judicial officer and of the creditor, the expert estimater or an accountant chosen by him. For reasons which also have to do with financial cover profiles, we would propose that we return to the text assessed positively by the 5th Commission, inserting, after the words "anticipated" by the creditor, the words: "and in any case bear the same charge," as this specification is absolutely relevant from the point of view of charges. The third question to be raised for the Commission has no financial profile and therefore the effect is neutral. Where Article 5-a is inserted after Article 5, paragraph 5 shall read: Until the end of the 12th month following the adoption of the decree, the text assessed by the Budget Commission was written "Until the end of the 8th month following the adoption of the decree." This is an amendment which, however, the Commission has recognised that it does not present financial profiles. More important, however, is the footnote to the technical report, positively verified by the State Accountant and therefore boiled. The General Accountant writes as follows: The Commission considers that the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market in the context of the restructuring plan is not sufficient to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market and to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. The effect of this transaction is worsening of the debt and deficit for the full amount of the credit transferred to the Bank. The Commission has taken note of this note of the General Accountant of the State, it shares it and therefore recommends to the Government the removal of Article 12-b from the text of the maxi amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of these comments. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u69	Mr President, the Government accepts the proposals and comments relating to corrections or additions: to insert the missing letter, to insert the sentence: 'is in any case to be borne by the same person' and to expunge Article 12-b.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u72	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are faced with a regulatory and procedural problem. I have in my hand a technical report which does not refer to the maxi amendment tabled, but it is a technical report in which the opinion is expressed in relation to the amendments, such as Amendments 1.8, 1.21 to Article 1 and so on, and in particular, as President Tonini said, Amendment 1.58, in which nothing is said to have been changed from the text of the maxi amendment. The technical report then analyses and gives an opinion on a text which is different from the text of the maxi amendment. All this being said, the elimination or transposition of those which were the references of the President of the Budget Commission, who rightly pointed out the differences between one thing and another, does not lead to the mere elimination of points, such as the deletion of Article 12-b, but involve the introduction of words, senses and economic burdens different from that which is the maxi amendment. Therefore, if the Government intends to resubmit a modified text to us, because the text is modified from a quantitative and qualitative point of view, let it well come, however, if the titled person, who has had the delegation to request the trust and deposit the amendment, is the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, only these can come, propose the changes and maintain the confidence that has been required, and not the Undersecretary, who does not have the delegation to ask the question of trust, nor can he modify the text of a maxi amendment on a decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u75	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not have much to add to President Calderoli's speech unless I agree with what Senator Tonini said. In the Budget Committee we had to note some differences, on which we also expressed our opinion, as the President said, but this naturally also leads us to some procedural considerations, namely that there should be a greater opportunity for examination of the texts, given what has happened, and not to be left to the extemporaneous capacity of the members of the Budget Commission to intervene on a text which, moreover, in the substance, did not have the opportunity to examine definitively. I also appeal to the Presidency to consider whether there should be more time for this next time, and also to make a judgment by the Commission on the substance of the alignment between the text approved in the Commission and the maxi amendment, because it is true that the Government can present what it wants, but when the Government comes to present a text and tells us that it is equal to the text approved in the Commission, it is clear that there should be, at this point, also on the Commission's part, an examination to verify whether it is true, because unfortunately it is not the first time that this Government has presented us with differences without announcing them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u76	Senator D'Alì, I find it wise to consider the timing to allow checks in more appropriate times. As regards the comments made by President Calderoli, I would like to point out that when the representative of the Government raised the question of trust, as we can see from the report, he spoke of a text incorporating the amendments proposed by the Commission, exactly what the President of the Budget Commission has been promoting, pointing out three material errors that made the text not in line with the one approved by the Commission. Therefore, the vote takes place in the substantial statement made by the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, which made explicit reference to the transposition of the amendments proposed by the Commission and which President Tonini reiterated, even after the debate I imagine had been in the Budget Committee, adding - and on this point the attention of the Government - the question of the deletion of Article 12-b, if I have understood correctly, to which there is a problem of coverage. I would therefore like to regain the Government's awareness of this deletion, so we believe that we can proceed. Mr Baretta, would you like to confirm the Government's position with regard to Article 12-b?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u77	I confirm that it will be deleted from the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u78	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u81	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have not clarified the problem of amendment 5.3 (text 4). The amendment refers to the eighth month, while the text of the maxi amendment has the 12th month. What is the text supposed to be? 8th month or 12th month? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calderoli, President Tonini has already made this clear. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Undersecretary Baretta said of the transposition of the phrase "the same" and "execution" of Article 12-b, while nothing said about the choice between eight and twelve months. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. President Tonini spoke about it, but for more... CALDEROLI (LN-Aut). President Tonini is not the one who tabled the amendment. He points out problems and the government has to say whether it transposes or not. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would urge the government representative to clarify this further point directly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u82	It is very simple: the text coincides with the vote of the Finance Committee and, therefore, remains the reference to the twelfth month. As President Tonini has just said, the Budget Commission has noted that this has no financial consequences and, therefore, we maintain the text voted in the Commission. [[Senator Calderoli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u83	The Government has said that this is the text approved in the Commission. It seems to me that the matter is clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u86	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, this approach is, to say the least, unconvincing. The Government is asking for confidence in a text containing an object that should be expounded later. But when? Mr Baretta, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Now. MARTELLI (M5S). Now? Then it is no longer the text on which you ask for trust, but it becomes something else. This is not correct from a procedural point of view. I am sure that now, of course, the Presidency will want to convince me that I am wrong, but that will not make any difference, because - I repeat - this is not procedurally correct.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u87	Senator Martelli, you're immediately removed. I don't want to convince you, but that's a fact. So paragraph 12-b is not there. MARTELLI (M5S). The government has asked for confidence in something else!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u88	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are at fifty-seventh trust (outside the Chamber I was speaking with colleagues from other groups and it was said that we have lost track of the exact number of trusts, if 58, 59 or 60). Even today, after the vote of the administrative authorities, the imposition of confidence by the government is an important political act. I remember that we are at the 47th Decree-Law, therefore an urgent measure (then you will explain what the urgency is). Before I go into the substance of the measure and the political aspects, I would like to focus on one aspect. The government cannot pass on in this way to the observations made by Senator D'Alì, Senator Calderoli and the colleague of the 5 Star Movement. These are important things. The Government has adopted a decree-law - I repeat, the forty-seventh - particularly important and urgent. We must intervene, even if we do not know what the implementing decrees that the Government is delegated to adopt will be. So there is urgency, but we only know in broad terms how to solve problems (or, better, how not to resolve them) with this decree-law. Secondly, confidence is placed on the measure and therefore not all those amendments which could have improved the text of the measure, which, as has already been pointed out in the general debate, is very weak (on which I will say something later). We therefore have confidence; the maxi amendment comes quickly and furiously, the Budget Commission works and does what it can and we are told that the text approved in the Finance Commission would not be changed or would be amended later. There is total confusion; it is the usual over-pochism of this Government. I am surprised that the majority senators (especially those who - I say with the utmost respect - have been elected by the votes of the right-wing) can continue to trust a government that, as we saw last Sunday, no longer enjoys the confidence of the country (we will talk about it later). [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] I would like to make a brief comment on the decree-law. A few months ago, four banking institutions were saved (even in that case with a decree-law and, therefore, as a matter of urgency). It is done, I remember well, the big voice with the little savers and a weak voice - weak, flexible, weak as the weak Renzi always does - with the strong, that is with the bankers. We, all the opposition forces, like all people of common sense, ask that there be no difference between the people who are being conned by the banking institutions. This decree-law, against the Italian Constitution that says that we are all equal, immediately makes a distinction, that is, it says that we will proceed to repay only those who do not have real estate for a value up to 100,000 euros and has a gross income IRPEF not exceeding 35,000 euros. I ask the left-wing senators who support this left-wing government if they have two accounts: it means that people who have an income of 1,710 euros per month, maybe with two or three children and who have saved to have the kids study, will not be included in this decree: monthly incomes of 1,800 euros will not come back. When you vote and do not allow us to table the amendments because you put the 57th trust, do you ask yourself what you vote for or what the ultimate goal is, the main objective is only to keep this government alive, which has now been broken down? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] This is the number one point I'm not going to extend to. Of course, there is a part of the majority that does not speak, perhaps even out of decency, and there are fellow senators - I think - of the Democratic Party who, in great embarrassment, I believe that few will join in speaking this afternoon. My first question is: what are you voting for? What force you to vote with confidence? Secondly, I would like to know whether this decree-law should serve banks or small businesses and craftsmen. Who needs it? 15.28 (Follows MARIN). I suppose you've read the text. He remembered a senator who is not from my Group: we are talking about things that concern Italians, we are talking about three unpaid installments. But do you think before the banking institutions call them, the artisans will have lawyers? Perhaps those artisans who look to banks for the resources that they should make available to small and medium-sized enterprises and instead do not (then we will also say something about the banking institution). When the banks call small and medium-sized enterprises, I repeat, the craftsmen, the workers of companies with two employees and will ask them to sign, by whom will they be supported? Do you think they have lawyers or accountants? Are they gonna get help? No: they will sign, as was mentioned this morning by the opposition colleagues who have spoken; they will immediately sign everything and immediately to hope to move forward and hand and foot to the banking institutions. The economy doesn't start again. Now you know what happened this morning at Confcommercio: we went from announcements to whistling. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] Did you hear the whistles of today at the President-in-Office of the Council, or did you also enter the "I don't see, hear, speak" phase? Do you even read the numbers? Did you read the local elections last week? Today's whistles made you realize that the economy doesn't start again. Do you think that this urgent decree (I see no urgency with regard to this thing, of course) will help the economy to restart? Or once again it will help the strong to make a big voice with the weak, that is, with the people who work and represent the fabric of the country, the artisans, the small and medium-sized enterprises, for example in the region from which I come. Nothing against the big business, of course, but for Renzi it is important to go with the CEO of a large company in America maybe, but not to think about small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. It's not important to think about the merchants with the shops that close. But do you see the investigation that shows how many stores close in our country? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] I can't believe he took a whistle today. No wonder I know people well. The President-in-Office of the Council is invited, but then the whistle doesn't spare him and it doesn't have to be said "I've been a referee," it doesn't always have to be funny. The country's problems are very serious. Much has already been said about this decree-law this morning; I have remembered two things, the simplest to understand and understand, and I hoped that you would understand them and understand them as well. You save on one side and, among other things, that part is flat. The lump sum, the bonus are things now entered into the common use of this Government. Incidentally, as one Senator of my Group recalled this morning, 1,400,000 people will have to return the bonus: it is not only a damage, but also a mockery. They took the money, maybe they spent it, and they're gonna have to pay it back. It's more than starting the economy! You're sinking family economies. In fact, it cannot be said that 80 euros are important, especially multiplied for a few months, and then say that it doesn't matter if they have to return 400-500 euros. Either they're important -- and they're always important -- or they're never important. Families, 1,400,000 people who will have to return those 80 euros for a number of months, get a bat on their head, which will add to the increase in local taxes of the municipalities, for everything you are combining with the local authorities. I said something about the decree-law, but since we are discussing a trust, we must remember that trust is in the government. I am truly addressing those who have been elected against the left and who cannot share this left: do we want to continue to give confidence? I understand that the divisions of the Democratic Party - with the utmost respect - are on the agenda in newspapers, television and daily debates outside this House, but do we want to continue to give confidence to a Government that does the harm of this country? Last week's election told us that Italians can't take it anymore. The honeymoon, that of 40% of the European elections, has ended for a long time; now there are no more applauses, but the whistles of the general assemblies; there are no more 40% votes, but the votes to all other opposition forces. The Renzi Government, by now, takes confidence only in this House and in that of the House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Recalls of the President]] I must conclude, Madam President, I am out of time. Outside, among the people, trust has already disappeared, it has evaporated, it has become evanescent, just as it has evanescent not only the President of the Council, but also this team. In fact, if the team is evanescent, inadequate and not up to it, it will put around it, except a few, very rare cases, a team composed of evanescent players. I would like the parliamentarians, even by majority, of the forces that support this Government to show that they are not evanescent and to close (because if we do not do it we will do it in October the Italians with the constitutional referendum) what is a very sad period: the era of the Renzi Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u89	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u90	Madam President, I take the opportunity of these minutes in general discussion to point out serious shortcomings, not only in what is written in the text of this decree-law, which is absolutely not acceptable both in its content and in the method by which it was adopted. We wanted to make a decree-law that, for the umpteenth time, speaks of banks precisely to protect the bank. I recall an amendment by my colleague Mr Tosato which, at this point, asked to change the title: "Provisions for the protection of banks". I would like to take this opportunity to point out that we in the Commission had proposed amendments and agendas. Since there has been talk of crisis situations of these banks, so much so that expropriation processes are foreseen and even the possibility of transferring a property given as collateral to the bank, in order to facilitate the recovery of the bank's credit or in any case a capitalization of that credit, we forget that instead there are very serious banking situations in Italy. I note, in particular, two of them in Veneto. These are two situations that have been completely forgotten and the amendments and agendas that we have proposed have not had any kind of follow-up. I refer to two very sad and dramatic cases in Veneto. One concerns the total maladministration of the question of popular banks, both of the People's Bank of Vicenza and of the Veneto Bank. In particular, regarding the People's Bank of Vicenza, inspections already carried out in 2001 reported irregularities and arrived in 2015 with nothing in fact on the front of the controls on this institute. Following those disastrous decrees, through which the obligation of the transformation of the popular banks was foreseen, thus obliging them to the listing, we arrived at a value of the shares of the People's Bank of Vicenza, which still in 2014 was estimated at 62.50 euros per share, equal today to 0.10 euros per share. But what happened in the meantime? While knowing that this disaster was being met, due to the consequences of a decree-law that was approved here, despite this, the Banca Popolare di Vicenza made 43,000 new members from 2013 to 2014, knowing very well that they were facing a situation of total disaster. So we come today with a system in which these savers have not been listened to at all and have not had any kind of refreshment. Not only are there companies that have lost important values, but we are talking about individual citizens who have lost all their savings, the savings of a lifetime, which could have been in the order of a few tens of thousands of euros. But had it also been a few thousand euros, if that was all the saving of a life, for that person such a situation is a disaster. Let's remember that in the United States crimes such as hacking, false communication, fake budgeting, extortion and scam would have led to sentences for thirty years to life, when instead here in Italy for this type of crime there are very slight penalties, thereby allowing those who manage these banking institutions to do practically what they want, so much then the consequences are ridiculous. So we are now with 119,000 shareholders, with 5,66 employees, but above all with data that we find really alarming. Actualized to date, the damages resulting from the First World War, between Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia, amount to 10 billion euros, that is exactly equal to the damage that has been created in these territories for the losses of the Popular Bank of Vicenza and Veneto Bank. From an economic point of view, gentlemen, the results were equal to those of a world war. We have put forward proposals and tabled amendments, on which a shameful silence has been cast. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u91	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u92	Madam President, Mr Eva Longo, Vice-President of the Finance Committee, will of course make the explanation of vote on behalf of the Group. I would like to stress that this is a small step forward towards reform and that our Group is a group created to ensure that this was a legislative reform and that there was no usual dissolution, in order to have another legislature and continue to have the poles opposed, one against the other, to play for those who do less, that is to say the worst so much the better. We believe - and we call on the Undersecretary Baretta to pay attention to this point - that a great reform of civil justice must be carried out, and that this measure is going in the direction of that furrow and that address; so our Group - as Mrs Eva Longo will then say - will vote in favour. To paraphrase a famous sentence by Vittorio Alfieri: reforms, always reforms, very much reforms. It is necessary to make every effort to carry forward, in this legislature, the reforms necessary to advance the country. I listened to Mr Marin earlier. Far from me being Renzi's defender; we are neither allies nor members of the Democratic Party, but I was there this morning at the Confcommercio assembly, invited by Senator Sangalli. There was also the president of the Forza Italia Group, Paolo Romani, and there was also Giulio Tremonti. Yes, there was some whistle, but only about ten out of 2,000 people and "a swallow isn't springtime." I must say that President Renzi took these few whistles in essence saying: If you have the courage to whistle me, but I will move on with the reforms. We, Mr President, will be challenged and perhaps even insulted, but we will continue to make our contribution to having all those reforms that we believe are right for the country approved. Someone said that you have to go back to politics with a capital "P." We believe that we are a parliamentary group for reforms and therefore a Group with the "G" the "P" and the "R" capitals, because this is our goal and we will try to carry it forward, even in spite of those who would like us not to vote for the reforms necessary to the country and continue to have two opposing sides, in order to hurt us and not equip the country with those reforms that President Sangalli referred to this morning both through an image and saying that we want the reforms and that the traders and businesses of Italy need reforms. He called on the Government and the two branches of Parliament to work to reform and support businesses, which have made Italy great, with a world-famous brand. [[Applause from Senator Longo Eva.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u93	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u94	I want to make two small premises: having fifteen minutes available, I am expanding. The first premise is that we are at the fifty-ninth vote of confidence. In order to make a comparison, in the last ten years in France, pursuant to paragraph 3 of Article 49 of their Constitution, they have asked once and since there is the current Constitution, for about sixty years, they have asked for it 85 times. We are at 59 votes of confidence within two years. He's actually abusing some of it. Just for the record, in France there is an institute according to which, when you ask for trust, there is automatically the possibility of submitting a motion of censure, that is, a distrust to the government and if it collects at least 58 signatures, the government goes home. Fantastic: it would be nice if we were in France! Too bad we're not here. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The second premise is that, since I've been in the Senate, I've been trying to listen to all the speeches that are being made, regardless of their quality, because I always think there's a chance to learn something. I would like you of the majority to listen to what you say, because a decree-law of this kind - by now on the substance of the provision to our examination - can be defended, but by throwing the mask. You cannot tell us that the decree-law in question is made to save jobs or to compensate the people who have been conned, because if you want to compensate, the compensation must be paid all and not in part. Secondly, taxes on compensation and compensation cannot also be charged. This cannot be done. Above all, compensation of up to 80% cannot be expected, provided that it has less than EUR 100,000 of capital in that financial instrument or that the last tax return is below EUR 35,000. If, putacaso, I had opted for administered savings and had 30 million euros in that financial instrument, the proceeds of the administered savings would not go into the tax return and therefore I would figure with a zero tax return. So my compensation would be higher than that of a person who had declared an income of EUR 35.001. This is a "little" disparity: meditate, ladies and gentlemen, because this stuff is written in the text that you are going to vote on, leaving aside all the other things you say. There is another interesting thing: it should be said - and if you say so I would be more pleased - that this is one of the measures that falls within the category of those aimed at ensuring that banks do not fail, because we have a huge problem with the banking system. You see: history never teaches anything here, because this fact for the first time was evident in the 1980s in Japan, when the banks did exactly what they did in Europe and Italy, that is, they lent some money to everyone. They lent them so much more wide sleeve, the more money was required. The same thing happens in Italy: most of the money that banks lend, they lend to those who want so many. Banks make less stories to give more and more stories to give a few, and when they give you few, they also ask for guarantees. Well, on the wave of what happened in Japan, the Nikkei 225 index of the Tokyo Stock Exchange reached almost 40,000 points (to understand now gravitated to 16,700). This is what happened that time, because then the real estate bubble broke out: real estate values had been fired up and then collapsed. It happened again a few years ago in the United States and the scheme was the same and of course it happened again now, because there is still a credit bubble problem. The point is that it is not possible to understand how much money the banks have given to people who are unable to return them, especially considering shares such as those of Banca Boschi, alias Banca Popolare dell'Etruria and Lazio "nuova" (because now it is called New Bank Etruria). They're banks that gave loans like this and this money doesn't come back. Obviously they could not ask for money on the market, because the shareholders no longer have any money. There have been requests for capital increases made by large banks such as Unicredit and Intesa São Paulo, who then did not make themselves because the shareholders said: "No I keep dinero ". This means that we must find a way to recapitalise banks in another way. How? Participants and local authorities have been precursors. That is, you resort to a tour of real estate: you are undercapitalized, I turn you on my property, it becomes yours and automatically your wealth rises. We allow banks to easily get their hands on the movable and immovable property of companies, having naturally touched those of private individuals (i.e. houses), in the hope that this will become a asset. Too bad that the banks do not do anything about the sheds, real estate or raw materials, therefore presumably they have to securitisation (i.e. fix the damage to someone else and let him arrange for it), or try to sell, flooding the market of something that is already saturated, that is, construction or raw materials, depressing it further, reducing the real estate rates and the value of the raw materials and further devalue the real estate that the banks themselves have, so ultimately they do a damage to themselves. These are basic economic issues and they are not difficult to understand. That is why the measures you have lined up to help banks do not work. The real reason everything doesn't work is that the banks are doing the wrong thing, that is, they use your money to make profit: if it's okay the profits take it from them, if it goes wrong you put it back. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This is the scheme used for the last four banks and it doesn't work because the money is that. Once we have invented borrowing money from the future (called lending and lending), we can no longer create money; the banks have never had this power to create money, but they have the power to destroy it. The bubbon (what needs to be pointed out) is that if you want to stop this now, the first thing to say is that what banks are moving is too much compared to what they have in their belly: currently banks are called, at best, 12.5% of guarantee on what they now administer. It means that if we all go to demand our money, this is guaranteed by 12.5 percent and no more; it means that there is no money, so we should limit the ability of banks to administer. You did exactly the opposite: you gave the banks the chance to get together to get bigger in the hope that those who had more money in their belly could help those who had less money. This experiment was already done in the United States at the time of the real estate crisis, when they tried to feed their former sisters (such as Bear Sterns, Lehman Brothers, Merril Lynch, Morgan Stanley) to someone older. In fact, Bank of America took a piece and Wells Fargo took another one. It ended that Bank of America and Wells Fargo aren't doing well, because they took the bump with all his debt. Do we want to do it here? You're hitting on the popular banks. That is, you tried to put together (it is beautiful marriage) the People's Bank of Milan and the People's Bank of Novara, which is actually made by the People's Bank of Novara and that of Verona, San Geminiano and San Prospero, and from everything that comes to mind. The result of all this beautiful operation is that once the actions of this institute were worth about 100 euros and now they are worth four. They are worth so little because neither of the two banks that made disasters and gave money to "anyone" can save the other. At most, both go deeper: the one that is drowning throws a lead life saver at each other and goes deeper together. These things have already been said not by me, but by fine financial analysts over the years; therefore, continuing on this path means continuing to erode capital. Do you know why the bubbon came out? Because banks have been filled with government bonds thanks to ECB loans, since the ECB has invented that if you continue to beat money, until someone realizes that there is a crisis of raw materials, and therefore there is no inflation, you can create it out of nowhere; therefore, banks take it, buy government bonds and speculate on yield. Too bad that, on the one hand, you do this and, on the other, there is a need to reduce the spread on government bonds. Therefore, the yield of the securities is reduced; then, if you give on one side and choke on the other, at least the result is zero. This too is not very difficult to understand; I am neither an economist nor a financial analyst, yet I have understood these things. I also find it shameful that you blame CONSOB. It's true, it's his fault too, but have we noticed now that CONSOB doesn't watch or watch badly? You are in the government and we are in opposition - I think - so it would be up to you to make sure to strengthen the supervisory power of CONSOB and Bank of Italy. It's not hard. Renzi also says: a law is enough. Bravo Renzi! But make this law, or let's just keep breathing in the mouth. We're basically going to strangle the small and medium-sized enterprise, along with the little saver. If anyone wanted to be precise, I was conned with precompiled MiFID modules that were not illustrated to me; several people, directors told me: "Do you want 50,000? I'll give you 60,000, but you have to buy me 10,000 euros of shares or subordinated bonds, otherwise I won't give you this loan. Well, these people, if they wanted to move forward, would be faced with a very long civil justice for which they should first put their hands on the wallet and then, if it happens, someone will agree with them. We don't know how long. These people are faced with blackmail like: "Better few, damned and now, and maybe I pay us on some taxes but give them to me, and I give up my right." You turned a saver's right to get back what he trustedly gave the bank into a gift. Turn a citizen into a subject. This is not a difficult concept to understand, and a person sitting in these benches should never do or think or endorse such things, and you are doing so. The same applies to small businesses, those which do not have a pool of lawyers. What do these people do? They accept what is given to them. Then, however, do not come to complain if many of the companies, perhaps in simple command or Snc will make the transformation into Srl to try to download their risk. Do we want to do this too? This is called the destruction of the Italian productive fabric. Yet, with the little ones, do not take care of yourselves while with people like Riva and ILVA you do all the scruples of this world. In front of a company that loses 2.5 million a day, you still find a way to ask banks to make bridge loans. Now it explains why you want to help the banks so much and why banks ask and get. If the banking system is asked to do crazy things like saving an anvil, like a company decorate, the bank will then come and ask for a counterpart. He'll come and say: "That time he asked me to save Fiat, L'ILVA and all these decoction companies? I did. You don't give me anything in return? Here then the recapitalisation of the shares of Banca d'Italia, the cleaning of the quaterna of the banks, Montepaschi di Siena is not touched and then? There will be more banks. By the way, but what happened to your Committee of Inquiry into the banking system? I do not see Senator Stefano Esposito, who said that it would be done, framed and brought to the Chamber. Yeah, he said it, but he didn't say when. In fact, we're still waiting. People at least expect one simple thing: the truth. You have to have the courage to tell the citizens that they lost money because they lost them and not criminalize them by saying that it is a risk investment. True, buying an obligation is a risk investment, but that must be said. This is the principle of transparency and MiFID forms: I need to know exactly where you're making me put the money. When this fails, it's a scam, and a scam has to be paid 100%, which has not been done. But say it: "We are on the side of the banking system and who cares, so we are all quiet here and I don't open my mouth anymore. But don't come and tell us the story, because the fairy tales here we don't want to hear them anymore, but above all they don't want to hear people out of here, because there are thousands of people who have lost money and don't want to hear them say: "I'll give you a tip, just stay safe." This is the most important thing you should do and I still hope you do. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u95	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u96	Madam President, representatives of the Government, I take advantage of this umpteenth debate on trust for some political consideration that may also leave the time it finds, but that, at least as far as I am concerned, I think it is necessary. Other speakers have spoken about the measure. There will be, I imagine, an explanation of vote of merit and I say only that the Government on these events has lost its aura of scraper, because the Renzi Government has gone a little' in trouble with two types of events, the banking one first and the oil one then. There is little talk of the latter, by the way, but it remains in the background. Do You Remember Power? It seems like a long-term affair and it's actually still going on. [[Brusio]] Thank you, Senator Cassano, let's do this once and for all, if you, who is part of the government, could listen to me... We are already few here in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u97	Colleagues, let Senator Gasparri speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u98	Please, Senator Gasparri, continue. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). We said that the government lost a bit 'of its virginity on banking events and oil events, which happens to be the classic events of politics: of banking issues there were also in other governments of the past; of oil events I remember one with the general commander of the Guardia di Finanza Giudice (if I remember his name well), in the eighties. This decree-law tries to badly shelter some things. I repeat, I will not go into the matter, but I shall mention for example the 80% issue only for those who have a certain income; how the leaders of the Etruria Bank behaved; the conflicts of interest and family of Minister Boschi, of Father Boschi, of Brother Boschi. We have told so many that they are elementary truths. And the banking world as a whole, but also the banking left are seen today once again put on the dock of defendants. I remember all the events of Monte dei Paschi di Siena, which are other, different and not resolved. I remember, and it's a bit of a paradox, that the president of the Italian Banking Association was Mussari. I remember him in the last parliamentary term when he often came in his institutional capacity to talk with the group leaders to represent the concern of the banking crisis; perhaps he thought of the crisis of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena he knew, being also president of this banking institution. And it makes me laugh a little, in times of anti-politics and the destruction of politics, that after Mussari and others to the presidency of the ABI had to go a gentleman who before was a politician, friend Patuelli, to whom I address a greeting from the Chamber of the Senate. It is a paradox, in a time when politicians suck and are a caste, that the banking world, after a serious crisis, has had to resort to a decent politician like Antonio Patuelli, who in the meantime has become an important leader of the banking world (he has left active politics for a few decades). It's a bit of a paradox, if you think about it: the world of banks is looking for a politician - and he did well - while we here seem to have to put the bankers in our place. I defend the reasons for politics, I vote for distrust and I am outraged at what has been done to savers. I believe that the Bank of Italy must also carry out an examination of conscience, this useless institute with this useless Governor Visco. But what did they do and what did they check? I remember that a Government prior to the present appointed as president of RAI Tarantola, who was deputy general manager of the Bank of Italy, used for supervision if I remember correctly (right, Senator Tremonti?). Since she had not monitored what was happening at the Mount of the Paschi they made her president of RAI. Now even the Bank of Italy would have many things to explain: what did Visco do? What did they do? I, a little bit out of paradox, asked for the abolition of the Bank of Italy, so there is the ECB and the euro, ugly or beautiful it is. So what's the Banca d'Italia for? Nothing. Moreover, the Bank of Italy has much to make up for. I read the news of the Venetian banks of Zonin, which represent another banking scandal: but have you read how many managers of the Bank of Italy were then hired by Zonin? What a shame this Bank of Italy! That's filthy! Are we called politicians because we are the caste of castes and those of the Bank of Italy? They moved from the Bank of Italy to the banks of Zonin. And those were the ones they had to control! That Zonin has done wrong things I hope that the judiciary will sanction it, but who will present the bill to the Bank of Italy? I am ashamed of this passage from Banca d'Italia to the Venetian banks that have impoverished the citizens, as my Venetian colleagues know, but we also know it. The 60 euro shares fell to 60 cents. The province of Vicenza and its surroundings lost points of GDP. I now come to trust. Today the government will have the confidence and Renzi will say: I have the confidence. I'm strong. Who cares about the ballot. Solidarizzo with Renzi. The whistles - Mr Marin mentioned this earlier - were not many, but someone took it this morning at Confcommercio. Then he also gave a speech and tried to take some applause. The boy is not stupid, otherwise he would not have taken out the entire summit of the former Communist Party and Letta. That he's awake, we realized that. So, even Confcommercio after the whistles turned things around a little bit. Renzi is trusting the Senate today, but I don't know if the votes of AL-A's colleagues will be decisive. I do not see my colleague Barani, but I say this to Senators Mazzoni and Longo: one of the moral teachings of this election is that certain divisions can serve to fuel some parliamentary consensus and lengthen the lives of governments, but then they have no popular feedback. We, as Forza Italia, have had good results in Milan and bad results in Rome. The results are clear to me, but the centre-right will be there if it can be united. I am talking about this in political terms because this is a vote of confidence. Instead, the other side has heavy breath for banks, oil and betrayed promises. Renzi can also have the confidence and probably, Mr Barani, the vote of AL-A will be decisive. Colleagues of AL-A, realize what the lords of PD tell you: give us the vote to the Senate, never at the meetings you don't show because if someone from AL-A arrives in Naples and Cosenza we don't even go to the ballot and Cosenza even wins the center right in the first round. They want Senate votes for trust, but they don't want them around. Today, on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), I read an article saying that they do not want alliances with Verdini and it seems that AL-A had to come together to calm down. The divisions damage those who suffer them and my party has certainly suffered damage in terms of strength and consent. Everyone realizes that. But they also harm those who make them because I have not seen electoral successes from the various divisions, I speak of the center-right. Colleagues of the People's Area and the New Right Center, I also tell you. Our results have lights and shadows. I don't want to read the percentages. You can trust me, but if the voters don't give it to you, what do you give it to Renzi to do this trust? I have not seen very brilliant election results from fellow Conservatives and Reformists. The divisions damage those who suffer them, we damage those who do not take votes and those who use them, colleagues of the Democratic Party, because your internal debate is legitimately about not wanting Alfano and Verdini in the meetings. On the left there is a more than legitimate debate. So, then it takes a little bit more linearity in behavior, ladies and gentlemen. It is useless to complain the day after reading the electoral data, because it is with the trusted votes that confusion arises because you have to compensate, you have to have the votes and then go chasing one or the other. Today's the day. I don't know if tonight will be decisive the vote of Guy or Caius. I know it was, even for the legend about the Provinces of Friuli-Venezia Giulia. Serracchiani had confidence in its legging with the decisive votes of AL-A because it took 161 votes to reach a qualified quorum and there were 165 votes. Without the nine votes of AL-A it would have been 156 and that law would not have passed. The Serracchiani is happy, but then will lose in Pordenone in Trieste and, perhaps, will lose also the regional. Colleagues of the PD, Government, Renzi, whom I metaphorically evoke, what do you do with these trusts with people of whom you are ashamed? You take the trust and then you don't have the confidence of the voters. That is why, colleagues from the centre-right, I trust that we will be able to regain the government of this country. This evening they will also have confidence in the bad decree-law on banks, but in the end there is no real electoral confidence. And those who shore the government with these trusts will be dumped, because for the left they are manageable. And I say this without believing that those with whom I shared a path can be entrepreneurial. They're the ones who help keep you on the margins. I wanted to make a political point. After all, this would also be a political and democratic Assembly, as well as a vote on decrees. With regard to the previous debate: whether the text was in conformity or the photocopy, paragraph 5 and Article 12-b, but whether the form is right or wrong. It's the substance of politics that matters. It's a bad decree-law, it's a bad government, it's a bad crowd of numbers that won't take you anywhere. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u99	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u102	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, when I begin the explanations of vote at the end of a general debate that has highlighted many aspects, both technical and political, my statement aims above all to bring out what is wrong with this decree-law and to make it clear to those who listen to us and - hopefully - to all Italians who will soon notice the effects of this measure. To intervene after Senator Gasparri, who highlighted the political context in which this decree-law fell, is particularly challenging and serious for me. What does not highlight the general discussion that has taken place so far? That this decree-law, basically, will do nothing. It has cost so much effort to those who wanted to produce it, that is to say to the Government, that however has not taken care and effort to write it correctly and to face the real theme that represents the heart of this decree-law. The theme is to find a solution through a procedure of simplification of the law (when the simplification of the law does not become abuse of the law), without putting hand to the only certain fact that it would solve this problem. Let's look at what the most recent history of other countries has shown us. I am referring above all to Germany, which, in the face of the crisis and banking suffering in its own credit system, responded with the only serious measure that could be taken: to put resources in that banking system to avoid the systemic crisis, the fear crisis and the uncertainty crisis. And Germany didn't have the problem that we had. Our system, on the one hand, was stronger but, on the other, there is a problem with our vigilance. And no one thinks they're gonna get away with abdicating all the omissions to CONSOB, because we know that's not the case. As Senator Gasparri has just been well described, our vigilance watched little or, at least, watched with particular attention on someone but much less on others. So it happened that a small system of banks, those of that territorial area that this morning I described in general discussion, all located in Central Italy, between Tuscany and surroundings, was able to deceive its savers for the omission of the various vigilances. I remind myself, of course, and certainly not the Government, who knows very well, that the savings are constitutionally guaranteed. We of this Constitution can also make a trace, but there are some principles (and this is one of those) that guarantee the solidity and the keeping of a country. The savings must be properly placed and defended by the action of the laws, their strength and by those who must ensure that that savings are guaranteed and defended. We, on the other hand, are going to legislate, by virtue of the initiative of the Government with its decree-law, on a system, the banking one, which we record not having been properly supervised. Moreover, we have prevented Parliament from intervening in the midst of a financial crisis such as the one we have experienced and which we are still living. Those who wanted to remember this morning the relationship between what happened to the four banks, that someone insists on calling themselves "bankettes" (it is true that they represent only 1% of the Italian banking system and Italian savings) and the fear that this has inoculated into our system and the saver. As you can see, this is affecting, also for the omissions of supervision I was talking about earlier, on other territories and on other banking systems, such as that of Veneto, at the head of Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca. Why all this? Because our response, unlike the German one, is based on small details, which, from our point of view, are causing a crisis in that system of guarantees for companies to the advantage of a system of guarantees for the banking sector that will devour what is left of our economy. Indeed, the system of recovering that credit and suffering is unbalanced - as we have said on several occasions - only in favour of banks. This was an opportunity to enable banks and the economic system to revitalize themselves. I come therefore to the final part of my explanation of vote, which, as we can well understand, is clearly contrary to the measure under consideration, because this clumsy attempt - at the end of this matter - only divides and discriminates: first it discriminates between the creditor bank and the creditors of other types. Beware that among these there is not only the system of enterprises, that is, an enterprise that struggles to recover its credit from another enterprise, but there are other creditors, very important, that are the workers, that in the situations of prefall, difficulty and crisis of the company are very important. We are not devoting the same attention to those creditors, which we rightly need to devote to the banking system in order to solve their budgetary problems, but we are creating a distinction and this is very serious because of the effects of this clumsy decree-law. Returning to the issue of the four banks and to the identification of the capital and income limits that give right to the flat-rate refund, are we sure that they are right? If there has been a scam - and we hope it will not only be stigmatized, as we all do, but seriously affected - this presumption must also extend to savers who do not fall within those limits. It is not possible, as our president Marino says, to always say that "the best is enemy of the good" because this time the fundamental principle of equality, put so much into question, will produce other disputes that will hardly be able to make this Government tell that the decree-law under consideration has served the banks, it has served to solve the problem of con savers and it has served the economic system, because so it will not be. We have proposed the removal of those limits, but I realize that the government could do this and that it did. I know what has been the work of the Undersecretary Baretta, to whom I recognize not only the merit of having followed him in the best way, but of being one of the few members of the Government to have the ability to understand how much this decree-law will spill unnecessarily on our economic situation and therefore will not solve any problem. In giving credit to him, I am here to emphasize that the current Government, instead, has not been able to present itself to this appointment with the cards in place, not even with the calculations of the General Accounting of the State, that could to some extent facilitate a better writing and the perfection of this decree-law. And no one is hiding behind the fact that the oppositions have opposed, because the oppositions have not prevented the government from working; indeed, they have favored the best possible solutions for those frauded savers and also because we hope that the measure under consideration can really help our banking system to solve the problems. The escape from reality, which also distinguishes this decree-law, is a serious vulnus for our system... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bonfrisco, I invite you to conclude. BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, I shall conclude. In declaring the Conservative and Reformist Group's vote against this measure, I would like to make an appeal to the Executive: that the Government should finally make the Government and take measures that serve something. This, in fact, is yet another decree-law that does not deal with the real issue: I am referring to the fact that, as Germany has solved its problems of suffering, we too should have done so in time and taken note of the reality, that is to say that only with a strong intervention of economic resources can the problem be solved. The rest are and will only be palliative. I hope that the Government will be obliged to take note of the fact that, by not resolving the problem of the stock of suffering, which we drag from the years of the financial crisis, the measure under consideration will solve nothing at all. A measure that solves nothing can only be voted against. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u105	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, the Government and the rapporteurs have argued that this measure is part of other similar interventions, promoted by the majority to support economic recovery. The truth is profoundly different. The measure under consideration does not attack the causes of the crisis, but its victims. On this point we have totally different visions. According to yours, banks are victims of companies and craftsmen who do not pay their debts and families who do not pay their mortgage payments on time. For you, citizens are not victims of bankrupt and fraudulently managed banks, but have lost their savings because they are inattentive, unprepared and reckless. This is not the case: savers have been cheated and must be compensated. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] With such measures do not promote recovery; protect banks and not savers. You continue to bring down the price of the crisis on the citizens and favored the banks in the possession of the assets of the Italian families in difficulty. Unscrupulously assaulted businesses, artisans and families who are already on their knees and approved rules to make such thefts easy, fast and legal. The banking crisis exists not because you do not want to pay the debts you have contracted with the banks, but because you are no longer able to do so. In recent years there have been less than 10 percent of GDP and less than 23 percent of the proceeds in the manufacturing sector, but you just ignore it. The blame is also and above all yours: you have given sovereignty, especially monetary sovereignty, to the European Union and to Germany, a real madness that is destroying our economic system. What do you do? Helping Businesses and Families? No, give the banks the most effective means to take away from them all good and savings. Italian citizens are tight in the grip of Italian tax and banks and you, with these rules, tighten it even more, probably irreparablely. With this measure you do not solve the problems of the country, but - indeed - you aggravate them further, creating further failures, family dramas and suffering for our citizens. The North League does not want to be your accomplice in these events: we have never been and never will be. We will vote against the conversion of the decree-law and against the confidence of this bad government, which still has the confidence of Parliament, but which has long lost the confidence of the vast majority of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The citizens will soon demonstrate this to you, next October, in the referendum on constitutional reform. Time's up for this government. The first warnings were made in the elections last Sunday and on the occasion of the ballot there will be confirmation. In October a government will finally be sent home away from our people, away from the real problems of our territories, focused exclusively on cashing, collecting money and sinking all of us, our economy and our families. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u108	TREMONTI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, Senators, I have so far had difficulty finding reasons to vote for this Government's trust and I have not found any reason to vote for this decree-law either. However, I will try to do something constructive. For those who want to understand the word "constructive," in future memory I remember that from these benches we voted against the bail in, from yours we voted in favour of the bail in. So perhaps we should reflect on the future. You today ask this House for confidence in this decree-law. I would ask you to ask for confidence in the next decree-law and perhaps not just in this House because it is quite clear that what is in this decree-law is not enough and that what comes from outside dominates everything dramatically. It is not a mystery that by July European stress tests will come out, it is not a mystery that the result will be negative for some European banks and it is certain that it will be negative for some Italian banks. The fact that the negative assessment is also outside is not a reason to be calm, but it is a reason to be concerned because experience teaches us that if the crisis is out it is aggravated and determined precisely towards Italy. You can say that those tests have an incorrect method basis and it is true, they are very random. From the first test it all turned out in order and three months later it failed Dexia. They are mentally high and yet you can't give a method speech to exorcise them and I don't think the instrument called Atlas is enough. Atlas is a cartel agreement but the stress has already suffered, it is not necessary the stress test on the Italian banks, it is already strongly stressed Mr Atlas. Incidentally, I would invite you to a more prudent use of mythology. In fact, in iconography, Atlas is an imposing figure carrying a small globe on his shoulders. Perhaps the terms should be reversed: in this case it is a little man who carries a huge mass of problems on his shoulders. (Applause from the LN-Aut Group). I also invite you not to use the word Icarus, always taken from mythology, to name the next, though necessary, instrument. What to do? I have the impression, and I think we all have it and you have it too, that the matter has not been handled in these long months with the necessary lucidity and with the necessary capacity. I believe that you must not and cannot limit yourselves with the aut auts of continuous vows of trust. Matter excludes this technique. The dramatic nature of the problems excludes the sufficiency of this technique in the House. I propose: why do you not open yourselves to accepting the ideas of others, the proposals of others? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It stops political divisions, but in common responsibility for families and savings, why don't you really think of an interparliamentary Commission that collects everything you need to face a reality that comes and will be much more dramatic than it has been so far? I remain convinced that European directives cannot disapply our Constitution. I do not believe that the savings directive can, however, disapply Article 47 of our Constitution, the article which defines, as a sacred principle, that the Republic protects savings. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII groups and from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u111	Longo Eva (AL-A (MpA)). Madam President, a few weeks later, we are once again called upon to deal with banks. The decree-law in our examination is obviously different from the one fired only some time ago, but the objectives are identical: to contribute to the capital strengthening of financial intermediaries, in order to reduce, in some way, the impact of the economic crisis. Crisis in the process of overcoming, but in such a slow and crooked way that it does not leave room for easy optimism. Moreover, the keys to solving it more quickly are not in our hands, nor in the hands of the Government. As long as European policy is dominated by obsessive German concerns, it will not be easy to reconcile monetary and budgetary policy, nor will it be easy to identify that anchor - an inflation target of 2% - which should be the common garrison to give coherence to the whole system. Unfortunately, at least so far, the opposite has happened: on the one hand, a monetary policy that is far too expansionary; on the other hand, a fiscal policy that is tending to be restrictive, at a global level. The result is a surplus of current European balance of payments, which has supported the euro against the dollar, helping to exacerbate the crisis in the real economy of the whole Eurozone. In such a contradictory context, the banking system, not only Italian, has suffered strong repercussions. In fact, there is a lack of demand for credit that is, also, solvent, due to the stagnation of domestic demand and the difficulties that many companies, uninternationalized, encounter on the global markets. They also weigh the volumes of stranded loans, which result in asset displacement, since it is necessary to keep substantial reserves immobilised in order to meet the risk that comes from more than 200 billion deteriorated credits, to which, in the period 2012-2015, it has been faced with budgetary corrections, which have compressed its profits, for an amount equal to 120 billion euros. That residual exposure, amounting to around 80 billion, almost 5 percentage points of GDP, greatly reduces the credit capacity of the banks themselves, forcing them to seek continuous collateral. The main way to solve a problem of this nature would be to reform civil justice, the slowness of which is such that it has made a mess of all legal certainty. The time of the trial is so long and impervious that it prevents any solution of its disputes. It is certainly not by chance that this handicap constitutes one of the main obstacles to the presence of foreign capital in our country: since there is no guarantee for the protection of individual interests, the large international investment funds prefer to turn elsewhere, bordering our country in a sort of autarchic limbo, which is the very negation of the principle of modernity at the time of globalization. In the face of the difficulties of proceeding along the lines of a general reform of civil justice, the path has been chosen of a small remodelling, which aims above all to speed up the procedures for the collection of any claims. This is a procedure that has a general scope, as indicated by Article 1 of the decree-law at our examination, but whose most significant value is the one brought by the following article, which concerns the relations between the debtor and the individual credit institutions. This is in fact the prevailing relationship that characterizes the Italian economy, rather than the one relative to the individual supplier with its client. In these cases, the instrument identified is that of the non-possession securities pledge, i.e. the provision of a pledge, to guarantee the loans or loans granted, on movable property intended for the business. Goods that remain, however, in the debtor's availability, constituting the object of the undertaking. Pegno is automatically transferred to objects of the same species and type, every time the original ones are used in the production process. The institution of the pledge shall determine a privilege in favour of the creditor, in the event that the debtor fails. However, the relative credit is recorded in the passive mass, but in a different position than the others. And the possible discussion of the pledge is aimed only at satisfying the demands of the latter. As the new institution alters the size of creditors, it must be given adequate publicity. The relevant procedure is therefore described in Article 3. If the guarantees for the creditor, which are represented by the assets without constraints of the entrepreneur, are reduced, it is good that the thing is known; it is good, that is, that there is an appropriate advertising regime in order to protect third parties in good faith. In the event of default by the debtor, the creditor may proceed to the forced expropriation of the foreclosed property. In this case, the pledge ceases to be non-possession and becomes owner, but with the variants proposed by Article 2, i.e. relating to the financing system by banks or other credit institutions. Hence the reasons for the previous judgment. In order to enable individual financial institutions to be more dynamic in terms of management, a new financing channel is established, assisted by a faster and more efficient guarantee system. It is useful to add that such provisions reduce systemic risk exposure and should therefore - conditionally is mandatory - contribute to the greater relaunch of investment, making bank financing easier. The last article transposes certain Community provisions on tax credit, providing for a different regulation more in line with the State aid rules. It is therefore clear from the analysis of the individual provisions that the heart of the measure is essentially aimed at alleviating the Italian banking system, at a time of particular difficulty, in the awareness that only a banking system freed from indirect costs can contribute more decisively to the recovery of the national economy. In sharing this interpretation, however, I cannot help but vote so that the stimulus that individual banks can exert on an even too small entrepreneurship becomes increasingly a strategic guide. We need to have more and more business friends bankers: more tutors than just collectors. In the hope that this measure will also contribute to this wider horizon, I declare the AL-A Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the AL-A Group (MpA) and Senator Cuomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u114	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian Left will vote against the government's confidence and you are certainly not surprised. We have now reached the fifty-seventh question of trust, which is put not only on the decree-laws - the number of which is now considerable - but on the majority of the important measures before this House and Parliament. I believe that we are faced, in fact, with an anticipation of the very project of the constitutional reform of Italy, that is to say a real and real transformation of our democracy, eliminating almost totally the parliamentary weight. We will vote firmly "no" also in the substance of the measure, which constitutes yet another regulatory intervention of reform of the banking sector, through the instrument of the decree-law. I am not extending again, since we have already expressed our views on this matter, that there are, from no point of view, especially in the case of decree-laws which have some structural reforms, the requirements of necessity and urgency required by Article 77 of the Constitution. We shall be voting against this measure, because the problem we are facing and which we have also raised in the speeches under discussion is very clear. From what emerges from the report, the first of the reasons for the decree-law in question is to contain measures in support of companies: then, of course, there is also talk of speeding up the recovery of claims. The measure under consideration is therefore also part of the world that the President of the Renzi Council is telling around, also in this election campaign, saying that everything is fine, that we expect a bright future, that employment and economic recovery are under way. This decree-law is therefore also being passed on as one of the tools that the Government is putting in place to support small and medium-sized enterprises and help them in a process of economic recovery, but in our opinion this is not exactly the case and the problem is that, by now, it is not just us who think of it. The world in pink that is painted by Renzi, in the eyes of many citizens has a very different color. It is citizens, men and women, workers, craftsmen and small entrepreneurs who, from morning to evening, do not see the recovery and continue to see and live a different situation. They live daily the drama of unemployment or the drama of the businesses and shops that close. I take this example, since today the Premier visited the Confcommercio and I believe that even in that place they did not really appreciate this vision "in pink" because they know exactly how things are and they start to get annoyed. When you experience very serious problems every day, if someone goes on to tell you that things are going absolutely well, maybe you start not to take it lightly and you start not only to express anger, as you saw in the last election, but also to behave accordingly. Even this measure, which we have already seen in this way, does not, in our view, serve the interests of citizens, craftsmen and businesses. In our view, this is once again a measure which benefits and strengthens only the banks. However, I do not say that in the sense of strengthening our banking system. I say this in the sense of once again putting citizens in a position of subjection and banks in a different role. The reasons for the judgment that we express are traceable in an advantage that is not for the citizens but for the banks, also for the distortion to which they have resorted in recent years, both in the credit system, and as seen for the bitter story of all the savers cheated. We see this clearly in a number of instruments and institutions which are included in this measure. I am referring to the non-possession pledge, which is also presented as the possibility that real estate could continue to be used for the operation of the company, and therefore for productive use; on the other hand, however - and this is the element on which I call everyone to dwell - it could lead to unjustified requests for the bank to adjust its guarantees. Of course, small changes have been made, but I do not think they change the meaning and danger that we see. We believe that the pact is quite penalising. In this connection too, changes have been made, but in our view they are not such as to lead to a substantial change which leads us to express a positive opinion on it. Even with the changes introduced (e.g. the one that at the end of the first unpaid installments, if the debtor has already paid 85% of the capital, the default period is increased from nine to twelve months), in our opinion the transfer to the bank of the property of a real estate is quite penalising, because we easily imagine the consequences for the enterprises, in particular for the small and medium ones that will have even more difficulty to renegotiate their loans. The question of judicial auctions in our opinion is a real sale of the Italian heritage (of which we always boast a lot), as well as our audience of small owners. Small changes have also been made in this respect: from three desert auctions we move to four before the judge can arrange a fifth auction, even reducing the price of the property to 50%, but we make a very negative judgement on this procedure. Then we come to the other element that betrays the operation done, that is, the one that concerns the compensations to the thousands of savers cheated by the famous four banks. In the face of illegal behaviour to the detriment of savers, it would have been necessary for the Government to provide for the full repayment of the titles, instead of making citizens of series A and series B. Above all, the very restrictive requirements for access to the Solidarity Fund are, in our view, absolutely discriminatory. Then there are other elements to consider, already addressed by me and Senator Uras in general discussion, regarding the timing and arbitration procedure. From our point of view, therefore, the decree-law under consideration, which will once again be advertised as an aid measure for businesses, citizens and for the compensation of bankrupt savers, does not protect savings, does not help and does not guarantee citizens themselves and small and medium-sized enterprises. Once again I believe there has been a great writing also by the banks. For this reason, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Misto-SI-SEL Group will vote against trust. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u117	Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, I am speaking only to say that this decree-law represents a further component for the country's production system and for the deburocratisation of procedures. The People's Area Group declares its full support and vote for confidence. I would ask that the text of my speech be delivered so that it can be annexed to the report. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u118	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u121	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, I would like to smile when I hear in this House about the reform of civil and criminal justice by parliamentary groups which have been sent back to trial. I hope you don't put your hands on it just for that. Let's come to what he's accessing. You presented this decree-law as the solution to move the real economy. This is a scam. Nothing's true. All the measures that this Government has taken in favour of the banks have not led at all to encourage the credit from the banks to the Italian companies. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]] They are simply used to clean up the balance sheets of the same banks because in the next stress tests Italian banks will be really in crisis. It is a few days ago an article in which we talk about bail risk in for three other Italian banks: the San Miniato Savings Bank (which in 2015 recorded a red of 67.6 million), the Rimini Savings Bank (with a red of 38 million) and the Cesena Savings Bank (with a red of 37 million). In Italy we need more, because the banks that want to finance companies do so. In fact, RCS (Rizzoli-Corriere della Sera) was granted refinancing its debt, then going to make an agreement with Cairo, of 352 million. It is not true, then, that banks cannot grant credit, but it is true that banks give credit to friends' friends and that then, when they do damage, as happened, to pay is the saver, because the scam of the four banks created by you by putting into liquidation is derived from granting loans that you knew very well would not have returned. Stop lying to the Italian people because the citizens outside are really tired and those who have been conned - I repeat, by you and the bad management of the Italian banks - have lost the savings of a lifetime. It is very true that a subject has already committed suicide and I would not want it to happen again. Let's analyze the text. With Article 1 you set up the non-possession pledge, that is the possibility - you say for the company, we say for the bank - that you can access the credit, placing to guarantee an instrumental asset of the company, but being able to continue to use it. However, in the event of a default, which is established by the bank itself, the sale, discussion or appropriation of the good will not follow the normal enforcement procedures, thus affecting the possibility of the debtor to appeal and object. So this is a big favor for the banks, which will only give credit to those who are so badly put economically that they will also be willing to endanger their company in order to continue their business: screwed twice. What about Article 2? Introduce in our legal system the financing of companies guaranteed by the transfer of a suspensely conditioned real estate, that is, the pact march, that allows the creditor to satisfy himself on the thing given under guarantee acquiring it or selling it directly to the occurrence of the non-compliance. The marching pact, which is distinguished from the commissary pact, prohibited by Article 2744 of the Civil Code, is for the cassation admissible only if there is no disproportion between the amount of the debt and the value of the property given as collateral, if the sale or acquisition of the property given as collateral takes place on the basis of an estimate, and if it provides for the obligation for the creditor to return to the debtor the amount exceeding the amount of the credit. In this measure, however, there is no forecast that the provision of financing cannot be conditioned by the presence of such a clause, because you did not want to include it, and given the greater contractual power of the banks, which you have provided and continue to provide, this measure will ensure that entrepreneurs will in fact be obliged to accept the pact in fact march, if they want to continue their business, and therefore to pay taxes. I will repeat it to you to the point of exhaustion: it is the income from which our salaries derive, never forget it, because the more you decrease your tax revenues and the less money we have for salaries as well. There is no explicit reference to the fact that there should not be a disproportion between the amount of the loan and the value of the immovable property given as collateral: you did not want to write it down. There is no reference to the fact that the transfer of the asset will in any case extinguish the debtor's obligation, even if the value of the property's estimate is less than the amount of the residual debt. Now I ask you: if the Italian economy is in crisis, and therefore there is a devaluation of the real estate, do you think it will happen that the asset placed under guarantee is less than the residual debt? It is possible, but you did not want to include this clause, nor did you want to include in the text the possibility that the contract between the two private parties could provide for this. Keep defending the banks. Then, as default is defined the non-payment of three non consecutive installments, if monthly, or of a installment if the installment is greater than the month. In the Commission, undersecretary Baretta explained that if a instalment is paid in any case, it is not considered non-payment. I would like to remind you that the single bank text defines as non-payment that instalment that is paid beyond the one hundred and eighty days from the expiry date, so you could write this explanation very well; instead you have not explained that the payment of the installment goes to not constitute default will give rise to disputes, but the debtor will still see to remove the property placed under guarantee. Always in favor of the banks. Not to mention all the other things you've done with the change in bankruptcy law. What about the refund to savers? Meanwhile, it is compensation, and already using the word compensation means that there has been damage. You have put stakes, which are the stakes imposed by Europe, but you have absolutely not explained some things and I put a question to you: we have asked that in the law it be expressly written that compensations are not taxed. This is because the natural person will certainly not have the taxation of compensation, but the problem will arise for the individual entrepreneur, for the farmer and also for the direct farmer. I hope that this question will be resolved in the Commission with the answer to our question. I would also like to remind you that all the scam of the four banks is also found by MiFID wrong, which are compiled at random. A long time ago we asked for the resignation of Vegas and lately the transmission "Report" reported a document showing that Vegas has removed from the information the sheet in which it indicates the probability of an investment. Surely we will not give confidence to this Government, which continues to favour large companies and large banking groups, and we hope that citizens in all squares will continue to shout their no, because it is really time for you to go home. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u124	SCIASCIA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration, of 14 articles, can be divided into several parts: the first (Articles 1 to 3), which provides for the introduction of new institutions or the substantial modification of precedents; the second (Articles 4 and 5), which amends, even in a substantial way, the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure on forced expropriation in order to make the procedures more incisive and above all faster; the third (Article 6), where the rules of bankruptcy law are amended, also in this case to speed up the process; the fourth (Articles 8, 9 and 10), perhaps the most prominent and, in any case, of considerable social impact, which provides for the use of the Solidarity Fund for the provision of flat-rate compensation, to the extent of 80% of what investors pay for the purchase of securities to be defined as toxic to be issued by the 4 banks placed in liquidation. It should be noted that as an alternative - and here it is necessary to reflect well - the investor may, once issued a special decree, request the arbitration provided for by the law of stability for 2016, taking into account that the arbitration may also have a negative outcome or with compensation less than the lump sum provided for by the norm. Finally, Article 11 tends to resolve the problems raised by the European Commission with regard to the possibility, granted with a previous rule, of companies and, in the first place, banks, of monetising the anticipated active taxes entered in the balance sheet by converting them into a tax credit, which, as is known, are immediately usable or transferable. To this end, it has been established that this benefit, in order not to be classified in Europe as State aid, is subject to the payment of an annual fee until 2029. This is a rule of complexity - let me say so - astral which provides, for the determination of the fee due to an infinite series of calculations. The discussion in the Finance Committee was broad and articulated, but nevertheless characterized by the government's haste to define the measure as soon as possible. I would like to thank all the members of the Commission and its officials for their efforts. With regard to Articles 1 and 2, the so-called pact is set up in Article 2. On this subject, may I have a brief digression, so that, outside of this Assembly, of course, there may be no one, new Don Abbondio, to ask himself, "Who was this man?". Elio Marciano was a jurist who lived in the days of Emperor Caracalla and, therefore, between the 2nd and 3rd centuries after Christ. According to scholars of Roman law, it is the first jurist who has placed the fundamental element of diversification from the Commissory Pact, that is, the one that anticipates the need for an estimate of the good foreclosed to be opposed to the amount of credit granted. The rules referred to in Article 1 (non-possession) apply only to undertakings, but why this limitation? Maybe professionals do not need credit for the exercise of their business? However, the possible opening to this effect has been denied both by the rapporteurs and by the Government for reasons that still escape me today. Another is in relation to the compensation concessions provided for in Articles 8, 9 and 10, only to the customers of the four commissioner banks. But why is it that the natural person - given that compensation is solely the responsibility of investors, even if individual entrepreneurs - who bought the same "toxic" securities from a bank other than the four commissioners should not be compensated? Has he not suffered the same damage? If the reason is that in the four commissioner banks there has been an input to the purchase, let us say incorrect, it seems to us that this reason is not enough to exclude this category from the compensation. (17.03) (Following SCIASCIA). In addition, compensation is limited - as repeatedly pointed out in the Commission - only to the investors of the four commissioner banks and, therefore, no action has been taken in favour of customers-subscribers of other banks - in particular one of full relevance located in the North-East - who have purchased or had to purchase securities of the same nature as those issued by the commissioner banks. As regards the institutions referred to in Articles 1 and 2, they have been structured with absolute primacy for the creditor. It is true, as the rapporteurs say, that both the non-possession pledge that the pact is marching through mutual consent, the debtor and the creditor, but - in my opinion - that is not enough. It cannot escape that the strong contractor, that is, the lender and therefore the banks, could "push" the debtor to sign the pact proposing low interest and commission, in view of the (real) possibility of obtaining with prompt effect the satisfaction of his own credit in the case of default. Unfortunately, most of the amendments aimed at equalising positions were rejected. What final considerations? The judgment on the measure cannot be entirely negative, especially for the part that provides compensation for the confiscated savers, but - I repeat - only to some of them. Moreover, in its first articles the measure is excessively unbalanced in favour of the strong taxpayer. As has already been pointed out, it does not provide - even more importantly - with equal conditions, compensation for savers who have subscribed to the securities at other institutions, with possible declaration in the litigation of rules contrary to the constitutional principles. Moreover, in view of a plurality of amendments aimed at clarifying that compensation/reparation is not subject to IRPEF, the Government has reserved itself to decide on this subject, given the negative orientation of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. I would remind you that all the Members of the Commission, to which I should like to extend their applause, have signed an agenda which calls on the Government to assess the subjection of such compensation. It cannot escape that to submit compensation to IRPEF would involve a considerable decrease of it, which would be less than 80% expected. Finally, it is considered regrettable the continued use of trust for the approval of such complex measures, in particular if proposed by decree-law and - as said - of considerable social impact. A debate in this House, with unconditioned times, would certainly have improved the measure. For all these reasons, the Forza Italia Group will vote against the measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u127	Rossi Gianluca (PD). Mr President, since other Members have done so, I also ask that I be allowed to hand over the written text of my speech so that it is annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. It announces the Democratic Party's vote in favour, since the measure, also thanks to the work of considerable improvement carried out by the Finance Commission, as acknowledged by some colleagues, contains a series of interventions aimed at promoting a framework of rules and guarantees for companies, banks, investors and creditors. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u128	The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the written text of its speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u129	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u130	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 59 of 3 May 2016 on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. For an emergency situation linked to air flights, which will not be available until Saturday, they asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Cucca and Lai. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Catalfo is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Catalfo. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Astorre, Auricchio Barani, Battista, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbio, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cyrinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippin, Diringo, Finghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Faviolo, Favero, Favero, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Filippin, Fingo, Finghi, Fingoni, Fincori Senators: Aracri, Arrigoni, Augello, Barozzino, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bisinella, Bocca, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Campanella, Candiani, Carraro, Casaletto, Catalfo, Centinario, Cervellini, Ciampolilo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Comagna, Cotti, Crimi D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Petris, Donno Endrizzi Fasano, Fazzone Gasparri, Giarrusso, Giovanardi, Giro, Girotto Lezzi, Liuzzi, Lucidi Malan, Mandelli, Mangili, Marin, Martelli, Martelli, Mastrangeli, Messina, Mineo, Molinari, Monteveròcchi, Morra, Mussini Pelino, Pepe, Perrone, Petroglia, Petrocelli Quagliariello Rizzotti Scia, Scilia, Scilioporati, Sciliropofini, Sciliari, Sciliari, Tarverò. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900 (correct text), entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 59 of 3 May 2016 on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 240 Senators voting 239 Majority 120 Favorable 169 Contrars 70]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 59.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u131	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-640.ana.u132	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 21 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.52 p.m.
