ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. 16.04 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 16.06 a.m. and resumed at 16.26 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u6	As far as the Minutes are concerned, if there are no comments...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u8	Are there any comments? Face them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u9	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I was wondering if there were any comments. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). No, before I even made observations, I've been asking for the floor for some time since you started talking. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,27 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u13	The next item is: Information by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on the political situation in Turkey I call the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u14	Mr President, as the Senators know, in the night between 3 and 4 November several Members of the HDP, the third Turkish parliamentary formation, including the two co-chairmen Demirtas and Yuksedag, were arrested and ten of these Members are still in prison. Tomorrow the lawyers of the two co-chairs will appeal to the Turkish Constitutional Court against their arrest; meanwhile the Ankara headquarters of the HDP is still closed. Immediately after these arrests, I expressed on behalf of the Government our deep concern about a fact which, moreover, stems from the decision last May, approved by a majority, to abolish parliamentary immunity in the Turkish Parliament. I expressed the Government's concern and it was reiterated in the following days by our ambassador in Ankara. We certainly know the context in which Turkey is today; we know the seriousness of the attempt at a coup d'état which took place on 15 July. I myself visited Ankara and was, among other things, at the seat of Parliament where the signs of the bombing that happened that night are evident, as are the signs of bullets and missiles both in Erdogan's residence and in the offices of some ministries. We also know the frequency of the terrorist attacks of both the PKK and Daesh, of which Turkey is the subject, and we have never failed to express our solidarity in the face of this coup attempt and in the face of the terrorist attacks on a country that - we all know - in addition to being a member of NATO, is a key country in the region for the development of several crises: from Syria to Libya, Iraq. It must, however, be very clear that this context, the seriousness of which does not escape us, cannot in any way justify the arrests of the leaders of a great force of parliamentary opposition. Arrests that follow, moreover, those carried out in recent weeks, including journalists, with the closure of newspapers; but those that concern the leadership of HDP and several HDP parliamentarians are particularly serious, in my opinion, because, as you know, one of the nodes of the Turkish crisis is precisely the possibility or not that a dialogue, a political path, aimed at trying to resolve the Kurdish issue, not through a military confrontation but through the search for a political solution is activated. Well, the obvious interlocutor for this attempt is precisely the HDP, that is the party that has been the subject of these operations. Even from the meeting I had in Ankara with the leader of the Demirtas party at the end of last year I had drawn exactly this conviction, namely that there was a path there. Some have spoken in these years of somewhat daring parallels with the Irish situation, but there was no doubt there was a distinction between a terrorist and military choice and the choice of a parliamentary opposition force. To turn this parliamentary force into an operation like that of arrests obviously closes this perspective and it is very serious: I believe that this has happened. It is no coincidence that the other parliamentary opposition parties have also condemned the operation, and not only, of course, the HDP which was the subject of these arrests. The day before yesterday we discussed this with our fellow European Foreign Ministers at the Foreign Affairs Council in Brussels, repeating two assessments: the first, that these arrests are unacceptable; the second, by inviting the Turkish authorities to return as soon as possible to the operation, albeit limited and partial, of the basic rules of the rule of law. Much is being discussed - and we have also done so in Brussels - about developments in relations between Turkey and the European Union in general. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that our country has been in the last fifteen years - because it is a story that was not born yesterday - a constant supporter of a path between the European Union and Turkey, in the belief that this path was, as such, useful in promoting certain processes in Turkey. Think of the modernisation of the country: Turkey has made extraordinary progress in the last twenty years on the modernisation front. Moreover: the maintenance of a secular state, even in a country with an Islamic majority; the restoration of an authority by the Government towards the Armed Forces, another great issue, because of the Kemalist tradition, open in the Turkish political scenario; and, precisely, a negotiating way to address the Kurdish question. We have always thought that the path of dialogue between the European Union and Turkey could favour all these positive processes. Today this path appears increasingly uphill. And it appears increasingly uphill - I must be very clear - first of all because of the responsibilities of the Ankara authorities themselves; but when we say this, let us not forget European responsibilities, because it would not be honest. It was a negotiation, as they say in diplomatic jargon, open ended, i.e. it did not necessarily have to have a pre-established goal for Turkey's accession to the European Union; it could also proceed without assuming that its conclusion would one day be Turkey's entry into the European Union (this means open-ended negotiations). We have always supported him in this respect. This has been the line of Romano Prodi and Silvio Berlusconi in the last fifteen years; unfortunately it has not been the line of some other European countries, which have simply opposed a "no," never to Turkey. I believe that this has, at least in part, contributed, unfortunately, to the responsibilities which - I repeat - are, of course, mainly of the Ankara authorities in relation to the complicated situation that exists now. We now have an agreement with Turkey on migration; it is discussed but it works, in the sense that it has drastically reduced the influx of migrants across the Aegean Sea without substantial violations of human rights. There is also a debate on visa liberalisation, on which you know that the European Union adopts 72 criteria, which are very precise and clear, which can very difficultly be respected today by Turkey: for example, compliance with these criteria would require, the amendment of the anti-terrorist law, which is one of the bases of restrictions on freedoms and arrests, and the violations that we have denounced. It is useless to deny it, therefore: this path, begun long ago, for the responsibility of the authorities of Ankara but also with the contribution of some European countries, is now increasingly narrow and if the hints, which occasionally are felt, of the restoration of the death penalty should be translated into practice would be an automatically concluded path. In fact, under the Treaties, the European Union cannot have any form of dialogue with countries that have reintroduced or provided for the death penalty in their system. But beyond that, they are the arrests, they are the decisions taken in these months and in these weeks that make the development of this itinerary - I repeat - very impervious and problematic. But I say - and this is the absolutely prevailing opinion within the European Union - that we will not, however, formally close the door, for a very simple reason. The European rules are very clear, they correspond to the values of freedom and respect for the rule of law and they concern issues such as the death penalty; we adhere to these rules and to these values. The fact that it is an important ally and perhaps a key ally on the subject of migration does not in any way cause us to renounce these rules and values. It is up to Turkey to decide whether to go in the direction of Europe or - as it seems in recent months and weeks - whether to go in the opposite direction. We will not be slamming the door, for a very simple reason: we do not want to provide alibis, from this point of view. If anyone wants to take responsibility for not continuing to seek a relationship with the European Union, then take responsibility for it. We stand by our rules, we stand by our values, but we create no alibi for anyone. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u15	The delay at the beginning of the sitting due to the lack of quorum forces me to strictly respect the five minutes granted to each senator, since the Minister must depart for other commitments already planned. Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u16	Mr Minister, I believe that your remarks have focused mainly on the agreement on immigration, on the European criteria for the granting of visas and, more generally, on the relationship between Turkey and the European Union. Yeah, but based on the feeling of recent years, from this point of view, I don't recognize much in the historiographical consideration of a common line of the governments of Romano Prodi and Silvio Berlusconi. Because, when Silvio Berlusconi was President of the Council (we were during the American intervention in Iraq, when the Turks were more than ever "the Bulgarians of NATO," as had been said), Silvio Berlusconi participated in the marriage of Erdogan's daughter (not yet President of the Council) and Romano Prodi (not to the Government of course, but President of the European Commission and anything but flattened on Berlusconi) citing his grandmother said: the Turks are not, because they are too friends of the United States and Israel. It was the time that closed the gate between Turkey and Europe were Chirac and Schröder, France and Germany and with them Europe. Compared to then, the feeling is that Turkey is now outside the European Union before it even entered it. As far as the agreement on migrants is concerned, it is certainly working for now. However, President Erdogan pointed out and stressed that if the entry visa for Turks in the Schengen area is not abolished by this year, this agreement will be called into question. Since there is not much missing at the end of the year and since there has obviously been no immigration risk from Turkey for many years now, it is clear that Schengen procedures, abolished for other European countries and quietly violated (not even tarnished) for so-called economic migrants, cannot be valid and affect only tourists and entrepreneurs from Turkey. Of course, Italy - as you proudly recalled - did not do well, but very well to express its concern at the abolition of parliamentary immunity in Turkey in May. In fact, from this point of view a greater critical sense of our national history would be desirable. We start next week to remember Giovanni Amendola, we remembered and remember often Giacomo Matteotti. We must remember, with similar disgust, when, between 1992 and 1994, some magistrates, who were not respectful of the Constitutional Charter and were not respectful of the robe they had worn, imposed on our Parliament a jacobina cancellation of that decisive institution. Of course, in Turkey we can consider the latest arrests, those to which you referred, a consequence of the attempted coup d'état of 15 July. And since then, from this point of view, there is no doubt that the regime, in fact presidential but parliamentary law (and it must be remembered) of President Erdogan is today a little 'one man only at the command of the race, often evoked by less intelligent reporters than my colleague Zavoli when he followed the Giro d'Italia. If I am allowed one last concern, which I turn to the Italian Government and those of the European Union, it is incredible how it has underestimated that Turkey has been living for a century in Sèvres syndrome, in the fear of being dismembered as a territory. And everyone forgets that there was after Sèvres the Treaty of Lausanne in 1923, which forced the Western powers to return to the negotiating table to give certainty of borders to Turkey. This, although in the rights, many times legitimate, of the Kurds has been "brilliantly" ignored by Western diplomacy. I am referring in particular to Secretary of State Clinton and President Obama recently. Hence many chain mistakes. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Volpi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u18	Mr President, I have listened to your report which, of course, took place in very diplomatic and also quite general terms. Behind the so-called coup in Turkey, an authoritative member of this House had the opportunity to address our parliamentary group by saying that only those who did not know how to deal with foreign policy could think or hope that there would be a change in Turkey with the fall of Erdogan. But I think being too accustomed leads to addiction. So, the famous way of saying "we thought and thought "you can't count anymore, Minister. You teach me, in fact, that Turkey has been giving worrying signals for quite some time. The progressive abandonment of secularism, historically indicated by Ataturk, has been in place for a while. A few years ago there were interventions on the army, even with trials, precisely because, as you teach me, the army in Turkey has always been the witness of that secularity that could perhaps lead to different reasonings. As you know, historically we have never been in favour of Turkey's entry into Europe for many reasons: as well as values, also because we believe that Turkey's role should be (or could be) played differently in that scenario. A few years ago, Minister, Turkey was also in a position of hard dialogue with Europe, knowing, thinking and deceiving itself, perhaps having options. Europe proposed a preferential route and they replied: well, if you do not want us in Europe we will be the leaders of that Middle East area, because there we are the most advanced country. So, they put themselves in a position to be very contractual with both sides, certainly not forgetting to be also an energy crossroads. And we know that very well. The concern, therefore, Minister, is not only to Turkey, but also to our role in that unfortunately difficult and dramatic scenario. What will Turkey do with the Kurds? Will you try to push them into an attempt at governance other than high Syria in Syria, why will you find the solution within it? In that case too, already on the occasion of the last information, I had submitted a sensitivity. Minister, I think that we, as Italy, must be more free, in terms of foreign policy, than the policies of Europe, because this Europe - you will never admit it - is not cohesive. We see this in the situation in Libya, where we are engaged in operations of a certain kind, while the French support someone else. Then we look at it on another front, which also concerns Turkey, which is Syria: it explains to me why we cannot resume with Syria a path, which is not simply linked to a diplomatic and representative government, when other European countries host Syrian diplomatic representations? Do you want to explain to me why we accept the embargo rule and do the French open the branches of their companies in Syria, for example? There are too many elements, Minister, which should make us think of our autonomy. Allow me to say - you are our Foreign Minister and in this case you should really represent all of us - that we are different from other European countries: we are in the Mediterranean. Faced with this, my call is to address these problems in Syria, to address the role of NATO and a Turkey that is going through a time of difficulty, but that can no longer seek our help because until yesterday it blackmailed us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bonfrisco]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u19	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u20	Minister, my speech is intended to try to provide some elements that I hope you will take into account, with the good will to provide useful tools to the Government in order to be able to give a judgment in this case. The first factor I take into consideration is the judgment, which seems consolidated, whereby the involutionary parable of Turkish democracy would be a recent fact. I would like to recall, instead, that on February 5, 2006 Don Andrea Santoro was killed and, despite the testimonies collected by the judiciary at the time, clearly said that he had been killed by an adult man penetrated inside the church in the cry of "Allahu Akbar" he was accused and accused of the murder of a 16-year-old boy, Oğuzhan Akdim. A few months later, on January 19, 2007, he was appalled with three gunshots at the throat, in front of the newspaper "Agos" which he had founded and directed, Hrant Dink, a journalist of Armenian origin already condemned in Turkey because he had written, in fact, a book on the Armenian genocide. Who killed Hrant Dink? According to the evidence gathered, he was killed by adult men, but also on that occasion he was accused of the murder and was then sentenced a boy of sixteen years, Ogün Samast, of Trebisonda, whose presence inside the police station of Trebisonda was made known to the world because the police officers took repeated photos with him before handing him over to the judiciary. On 27 October 2010, the Turkish judiciary, in the establishment of the 10th Administrative Court, condemned the Ministry of the Interior - and therefore the men of the KP who directed it - for not having monitored Hrant Dink, who was precisely under close supervision because he was accused in some trials against the Government. Minister, what do these factors say? The involution of a large party like the KP is a phenomenon not of today, but has begun for a long time. As has long begun in Turkey the underground struggle between that party and the other institutions of the State, which has as its object the issue for the power, on which the Erdogan government has for years also inserted a further fearsome variant: the resumption of a neo-Ottoman policy that aimed, for example, to destabilise Egypt through a careful conduct of the most important episodes of the Morsi Presidency, to govern the presence of Ennahda, after the Arab Springs, within the Tunisian Government, and which aims firmly to govern also the orientation of what happens in Libya. For these reasons, I would like to suggest to the Government that, in its intercourse with Turkey, it should urge the will to come to an awareness of Turkish society over time and to stress the need for an adequate level of pluralism and governance of the institutions in order to be truly equal in the supranational institutions in which we share responsibilities. I recall, incidentally, that the Turkish armed forces amount to 1,181,000 staff and that the sum of the staff of Germany, France and Italy does not reach this number. Let me conclude by reminding you of a further fact: all the judges who took part in those trials and judgments are under arrest today. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and CoR groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u21	We greet the students, the students and the teachers of the Classical High School "Annibal Caro" of Fermo, who are following our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is very important, and not only because we are discussing a country that plays a fundamental role in the balance between Europe and the Middle East, but also because we are discussing important issues, such as the protection of human rights, the economy and the always subtle border between Realpolitik and ideals. I start from this second part to point out that Turkey is an exemplary case of a difficult balance in which the international community, first and foremost the often wavering Europe, faces a great challenge. I believe that we are all aware of the importance of Turkey, which is also a member of NATO, but also a great player of the Middle East; part of the conflict in Syria, but also of the Israeli-Palestinian question; economic partner of Europe, but also a protagonist of a new understanding, which also affects the strategic issue of energy, with Russia. What position must Italy have and with it the European Union as a whole, with a view to a common foreign policy, proclaimed in principles, but in fact non-existent, towards what is happening in Turkey? In order to respond, we need to look at the very complex context. We can only observe, with great and justified concern, as you do in your report, Minister, the authoritarian turning point of which the Turkish Government is the protagonist. We cannot, however, allow ourselves, as Italians and Europeans, to lose Turkey in the decisive and historic role of Atlantic ally and economic partner. I have often supported critical positions on the policies that have characterized the international action of the United States in recent years, from Middle Eastern and North African events to relations with Russia. It seems to me that, even with regard to Turkey, mistakes have been made on the American side and there has been superficiality. I hope that, contrary to what has already happened in North Africa and the Middle East, Europe will have the strength and capacity of its own and autonomous position, which will give it an international role. I think that this must happen first of all with the courage to say clearly what we intend to do with a subject on which, for some time now, the European Union, but also Turkey itself, there are ambiguities and hesitations, and I am referring to the process of Turkish integration with Europe. If one considers that it is Europe's interest to have Turkey among its Member States, one has the courage to say so openly and to behave consistently. If this is not to be the case, let us say so in an equally open manner, having the capacity to work for a clear and fair relationship with Turkey. This ambiguity, which exists today, with serious repercussions, represents an element in which, instead, any authoritarian drives and anti-European pushes can find power, as unfortunately is happening. Two years ago, as rapporteur for the law ratifying the Agreement between Italy and Turkey on Justice, I stated the usefulness of all forms of cooperation with Turkey, also with a view to its eventual accession to the European Union, which has been and is a fundamental element of Italian foreign policy, with a view to the containment of Islamic terrorism. Today, with my Group, I strongly condemn the behaviour that undermines freedom of expression, which does not respect human rights and which leads to political instability. We do not like much of what is happening in Turkey, as Europeans and as Italians, and my hope is that we will have the strength to speak clearly. In this context of the expansion of Islamic radicalism, the first signs of which have been the result of the bloody attacks in Turkey, we must be able to work together within the European Union to make it clear that the concern about what is happening in Turkey, including the wave of arrests after the failed coup in July, is not a sterile diplomatic interference in Turkish domestic affairs, but a clear political position. Minister, after your speech, the AL-A Group can only agree with the position of the Government that you expressed at the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union on 14 November: to maintain openness to Turkey; to demand clarity on the process of Turkish accession to the European Union; to assess how the agreement between the European Union and Turkey on immigration can be improved; to deepen the very important issue of the liberalisation of the European visa regime for the citizens of Turkey, supporting the fundamental message that the importance of these agreements cannot make the international community, the European Union and Italy close their eyes on the serious facts of the recent Turkish political scene, not least the announced possible introduction of the death penalty. On this line, the AL-A Group guarantees its will to contribute to the formation and affirmation of an increasingly strong Italian position in the European area. [[Applause from Senator Gambaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zeller. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u24	Mr President, the repressive measures put in place by President Erdogan by the attempted coup d'état of 15 July 2016 outline a major change in Turkey's political and institutional system. The rules of the rule of law in stark contrast with the principles and strategy of the modernization of the country, historically entrusted to a secular and western vision of the Turkish Republic, have been abolished. Turkey is currently a country in which the Constitution is effectively suspended. After July 15, 2016, repressive measures were taken against every subject and form of opposition, with systematic violation of human rights. Erdogan threatened the re-introduction of the death penalty, arrested the MPs of the opposition parties and, in the first place, the HDP party; Persecute independent journalists and intellectuals and shut down the information and dialogue spaces on the Internet. These actions mark the transition from strong presidentialism to a real authoritarian regime. We have long been faced with a kind of civil war, which is also accentuated by Ezdagan's repressive policies, first of all against the Kurdish minority and, more generally, against all possible manifestations of dissent against his regime. The migration crisis and the geopolitical role of Turkey, rather than being structural antibodies to a nationalist drift, have strengthened the political and ideological revisionism of President-Caliph Erdogan. Of course, Europe has its own responsibilities in setting up and managing negotiations for Turkey's accession to the European Union, whose contradictions and mutual hypocrisies are no doubt a cause for the current situation. Moreover, the selfish-nationalist refusal of Eastern European countries to an integrated policy on immigrants has strengthened beyond measure the contractual power of the Erdogan regime, which uses the three million refugees present on Turkish territory as a weapon of blackmail against the European Union. It strongly calls for visa removal for Turkish citizens by 2016, although its Islamist leadership rejects Turkey's adaptation to European standards. Lately, the anachronistic dream of Great Turkey has been pursued by threatening to annex territories of neighbouring states. We therefore share the positions taken by the Italian Government and reaffirmed today by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Gentiloni; positions inspired by principles of caution and responsibility, which must inevitably qualify the European confrontation and the foreign policy of the European Union. The European Union, as requested by Italy, must finally regain internal cohesion in order to be able to exert a serious and credible pressure to respect fundamental rights in Turkey, including those of linguistic minorities. The final isolation of Turkey is certainly the wrong way. But Europe's fundamental values and founding principles are not transgressed, and even less are discounts granted. The European Union and all of us must be in solidarity with the victims of the purges and mass arrests carried out by Erdogan, in particular with our recently arrested parliamentary colleagues. We therefore call for Italy to make its voice heard louder, in order to express not only our concern for the anti-democratic policies of the Erdogan regime, but also our solidarity with the victims of the Erdogan regime, with those expelled from the public service, with the persecuted and with political prisoners in Turkey. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u25	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u26	Minister, we have been among those - as you know - who have strongly urged you to do so in recent days, because for several months now there has been no day without dramatic news coming from Turkey of arrests, systematic violations of human rights and increasingly harsh blows to democratic freedoms. We would like to make it very clear that the definition we always hear, namely that according to the main European Chancellors the situation is alarming, is now completely inadequate. It is really no longer the time to be alarmed: it is time to do things, to take courageous positions and also to show once and for all that words about the defence of European values are not just talk. Minister, we are very convinced that the repression that is taking place in Turkey and the construction of a genuine, substantial dictatorial regime did not simply begin on the night of 15 to 16 July last, that of the attempt at a coup d'état: the tide of arrests, the many expulsions from the public administration, the abolition of parliamentary immunity and the censorship of information that has unleashed after the coup attempt - and which, moreover, does not seem to subside - were widely announced and anticipated by a stylicide of liberticidal measures that had already begun for some time. Two years ago Erdogan replied to the request for European clarification on the arrest of 27 dissident journalists, saying that Europe must take its own action. We believe that the problem was precisely the fact that Europe chose then, and continues to choose today, to obey Erdogan's intimation: it really took its own action and closed its eyes too many times on the arrests and violations of democratic freedoms, even though it knew that this was equivalent to a real free hand left to the Turkish dictator. And unfortunately Europe is still closing its eyes now. Erdogan is used to contain the migratory wave and, then, what do you want thousands of arrests to be in front of a fact like this? Perhaps the principles apply until they affect the real interests and Europe believes that its real interest is to denounce in words what happens and then to pretend nothing in fact. Yesterday, the German Minister for Foreign Affairs, at a press conference with the Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs, confirmed - as you also said today, Minister - that, in your opinion, the negotiations for Turkey's entry into the European Union should not be interrupted and that the decision on whether or not to approach Europe should be taken not in Europe, but in Turkey. And, in this way, he wanted to affirm the principle that there is an unavoidable limit to the possible restoration of the death penalty. We think, Minister Gentiloni, and we say so with great clarity, that that stake is no longer enough. Unfortunately, Erdogan's Turkey has already made its decision and confirms it every day. He takes it when he arrests Demirtaș and the leadership of the HDP for no reason and without guarantee, a party to which our Group and our party go the most total solidarity and support, which will not be limited only to the words we can say in these classrooms, because we will go everywhere, if necessary in the squares, to express them. It is not Turkey that has to decide, because Turkey has already decided. It is now Europe that has to make decisions. First of all, it must take a decision on a fundamental point: whether it wants to defend its principles or not. This is not simply to express alarm or concern, but to use all possible means to achieve the restoration of human rights in Turkey, if necessary even by paying the price. This means, in fact, showing that Europe considers what is happening in Turkey which is no longer tolerable. If instead, on the basis of a truly shortsighted Realpolitik, we had to choose to betray these principles, we would pay a very salty price, because no great democracy can survive for a long time relying on the denial of its own civilization and its own reason to be. We believe that Italy must move very strongly in this direction, and stronger than it has done so far, to the point of imagining drastic measures, even by withdrawing the ambassador, if necessary, and also by calling for the suspension of international treaties, if necessary. It must move immediately and it must also move independently. We think it is no longer an issue that we can treat as one of the many things that happen in the world. No: our solidarity in Demirtaș, the leadership of the HDP, the Kurdish militants who have been the subject of dramatic attacks in recent months, we want to reiterate it today with all the strength we have in our throats. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u27	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, five minutes to talk about a problem like Turkey and the story that that country is experiencing - you understand - are a little few. It is necessary, however, to fulfil this task, and then I would like to say first of all to my colleagues that I fully and unreservedly share the saying and the not saying of the intervention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs: the saying because we have heard his condemnation of Members deprived of their freedom; but also the unspoken, or the implied, or the accentuated, because Europe must make a serious examination of conscience about the inadequacy, forethoughtlessness and omissions that it has had in times not suspected of Turkey. If today Turkey is riding on a sort of neo-Ottoman vision, perhaps it is also for those who closed its doors in 2003 - I am talking about Schröder and Chirac - while some countries like Italy - then there was the Berlusconi Government, but later Prodi held the same line - had somehow tried to keep open to this great country, fundamental for the balances of Europe and the Mediterranean, its own doors. My dear colleague Mr De Cristofaro, I understand your indignation and I fully understand it, but I say to my fellow Members that we must be careful: we cannot close the doors of Europe and Italy to Turkey and, even if we have different visions with that country or different views between governments or opinions between parliaments - I myself have spoken with my fellow President of the Foreign Commission in recent days - we must endeavour to keep the dialogue open. It would be a fatal historical mistake for Europe and the Mediterranean if we pushed Turkey on a drift from which we could have only enormous damage. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you something. I am pleased with all the indignation that exists and I share it in part, but on the night of the coup in Turkey I waited too long to see the same indignation in expressing solidarity with Erdogan, who at that time was the passive subject of what was being perpetrated. That silence was too long. That hesitation, even of Europeans, has been too long and we must have clear ideas about it. At the same time, the so-called Gulenist track, which seems to me to have been too superficially discarded even by the mass media of our country, must be deepened. That Koranic schools organized by that gentleman, who was Erdogan's great ally in the taking of power - this must not be forgotten, but rather clearly recognized - have served to infiltrate personal ideologicalized in most of the state apparatuses of that country is an indisputable reality. I believe that today we must put ourselves in the shoes of those who have suffered a coup, of those who are constantly suffering terrorist attacks and of those who receive millions of refugees on their territory, many of whom are there otherwise would be here. With all the limitations rightly mentioned by Minister Gentiloni, that agreement, although with so many criticisms received from us, works. I wish we could have the same agreement with countries close to Italy, from which thousands of illegals come. In conclusion, we do not discount the Turkish Government, we do not intend to do so and we do not intend to do so. We are not prepared to compromise on the principles of Parliament's freedom and autonomy. But, ladies and gentlemen, if I may give you some advice, I invite you to calm down. Before we venture on a field like that of the ambassador's withdrawal, we are careful, because by doing so the government would make a historical mistake. And because of the trust I have in this Executive, I am convinced that it is a mistake that it will not make. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u29	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u30	Mr President, everything that has been happening in Turkey over the last few months, we in the 5 Star Movement, who are certainly not prophets, had already predicted this last year, on the occasion of the tragic attack on a peace procession in Ankara on 10 October. Yet at the same time, when the link between the Turkish Government and the Islamic militias in the West was clear, it should have been expected that Turkey wanted something more than uncritically to support the West in the crusade against Assad. Erdogan is based on Islam and the very strong nationalist sentiment. The majority of its citizens do not have any sympathy for our political forms, but - indeed - perceive them as a threat to the independence of the country, seeing in the Turkish President a father of the country and not a bloody dictator. What should the European Union have done? Let's start with what he shouldn't have done in order not to be unbelievable. Let us start with the EU funds granted to Turkey. There is no trace of the money paid by the European Union after crossing the Bosphorus: there is no transparency about how the Turkish authorities use European citizens' funds. And we've given money, of course. Over the last eighteen years, we have paid - or are in the process of doing so - almost EUR 40 billion through the funding lines, pre-accession funds and the agreement on migrants. If we had made the granting of funds conditional on the demand for transparency and efficiency, we should now be counting every penny spent, while we do not know, if not in broad terms, what happened to all that money. Have they been used, at least in part, to fill up the Turkish security forces and finance the Islamic militias in Syria? This is the second contradiction: remain silent in the face of countless violations of democratic rules and human rights. Of dark moments Turkish democracy has known of them at odds, especially in the last two years when, between the attacks and the end of the truce with the PKK, the Turks have been cornered - at least this is their impression - until the establishment that governs the so-called international community decided to take Erdogan out with the attempt of coup d'état, which could not succeed - and, in fact, did not have it - allowing him to shore up his power and move on to the attack. Few are now doubting that this attempt was not inspired by anyone in the West, since it all started from the NATO military base in Incirlik. Of the Turks we can say anything, but they are definitely more conspiracy than Clinton, who sees Russian hackers everywhere, and so they ate the leaf. Soon after the reopening of relations with Putin, a strong and clear message above all to the European and US political caste. Not foreign policy lessons! Our responsibility is also that of the European caste which, by virtue of pragmatism and low-linking businessism, has taken care of the prospect and has only looked at contingency. The times of history do not always coincide with desires. It happened to Hitler, who thought he would conquer Stalinist Russia in a few months; it happened to the US-EU axis, who thought he would take down Assad as quickly as he murdered Gaddafi. The continuation of the war forced the Americans to arm the Kurds, thereby destabilising Turkey as well. So what do the 5 Stars recommend? First of all, it is not possible at present to continue to support Turkey's entry into the European Union for at least two reasons: the first is that Turkey has nothing democratic, at least in the sense in which we Europeans mean democracy, albeit among a thousand contradictions. The second reason is that liberalising Turkish citizens' visas, and thus lowering border controls, would put us in the face of an attack risk. The only way to avoid staying hostage to Erdogan is to resolve the Syrian conflict. Then you know, Mr President, Mr Minister, the five Stars are populists, the foreign policy experts are you. But, as things are going, I very much doubt that you will be able to solve these problems, and in any case, in the interests of all European citizens, I wish you every success in the future, even though, from what I see, you have not had much time left. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u31	Senator Alicata is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u32	Mr President, Minister, the development of the situation in Turkey continues to give rise to serious concerns about Turkey's democratic position. Turkey has long taken a path of accession to the European Union, which Italy, perhaps more than others, has supported, with a broad political stance. For its part, Ankara has always been aware that this path had and has rules to respect. Today, however, the situation in that country is increasingly difficult, in a growing of actions and initiatives culminated with the arrest of the leaders of the second opposition party - as the Minister has well recalled - by the government in office, which is hardly compatible with the above rules of the European Union. There is no doubt that Turkey is today a matter of great concern and delicacy. In addition, while understanding the geopolitical and economic interests that bind us to that country, we believe that Europe, but also Italy and this Government, cannot barter the collaboration on the migratory front with silence on the anxieties and worries that the Turkish Government has discharged on an international scene already graved by dangerous tensions. The Turkish State has contributed in the last period to disturb consolidated regional balances and is not entirely free from the chaos that is before our eyes, while it tries to extend its influence in the Mediterranean area and in the Horn of Africa, where they first reopened the embassy in Mogadishu. The initial expansion of the so-called caliphate has enjoyed the flow in Turkish territory of thousands of jihadists, transited into and out of the front, among the silences of the evanescent and superficial Western Chancellors. The country, of course, has also suffered devastating attacks that have claimed innocent victims, for which we have shown the necessary solidarity. But the situation, Minister, is increasingly complex and should have imposed on our country a detailed assessment of the possible consequences of any decision to be taken, including the three billion euros given by the European Union to Turkey to curb the flow of refugees, while we continue to turbulent our country on the quotas of migrants to be relocated. You, Minister, were pleased to have found understanding and encouragement from the European institutions over the past few hours for the Italian initiative in relation to agreements with certain African countries. Meanwhile we continue to import illegals to thousands a day, with our ships close to the Libyan coasts; we see close-up boats, dinghies and boatmen, but we do not intervene in those ports, preferring to send hundreds of paratroopers to Misrata. All this happens because of a foreign policy that is increasingly lacking, with a government that, beyond empty slogans, has little international credibility, increasingly at the pull of President Obama's United States, with which we have been allies and always aligned to his disastrous foreign policy that has put the world at risk, also because of a foreign minister who, fortunately, has not become President of the United States. It is a foreign policy, the Italian one, which drags tirelessly between gaffe and propaganda, provincialism and lack of autonomy. In Libya we have sponsored a puppet government, which eight months after the settlement is far from unifying the country, but - what is worse - it has not managed to stop a single boat with its cargo of desperate people. It is a situation that makes you moral accomplices of the scafists. We do not understand, then, Minister, what is the value of having supported a Government which, at one point in its programme, provides that the only source of law will be Sharia - a question which I myself asked you in the Commission, but to which you did not respond - with good peace of civil rights, the dignity of women and freedoms; a detail on which Western Chancellors and its Dicastery say nothing and have said nothing, and - I presume - nothing will say. In the meantime, we have also moved away from Egypt, to which, with over-archism and superficiality, the Italian Government has denied, after the withdrawal of the ambassador for the case Regeni, the spare parts of the aircraft F-16. A hostile act against our main ally in North Africa, of which our country is the second trading partner. In a chaotic moment that sees the Mediterranean burn, relations with Turkey do not offer the certainties of the past, and it would be appropriate to insist with that country to affirm without awkwardness and shyness the principles and values of democracy that, with much effort, are still pursued in the dear, old Europe. Let us hope, President - and I conclude - that the new President of the United States will seriously remedy that dark era of the duo Obama-Clinton, that from the endorsement to the ruinous Arab Springs to the erroneous assessments of the alleged anti-Assad rebels in Syria, up to the wicked and useless sanctions to Russia, have put the entire Planet at risk: anything other than global warming! The hope is that a season can begin as soon as possible in which tensions between the United States and the Russian Federation are relaxed and a fruitful negotiation is started in which to include Turkish-European relations, hoping therefore to define a constructive relationship that also satisfies our geopolitical interests. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u33	Senator Sangalli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u34	Minister, thank you for your balance and clarity in addressing a very complex issue, which five minutes of speech frankly do not allow us to examine thoroughly. To be balanced means, meanwhile, to remember that Turkey is a great country, that has the idea of being a great power and that over the last few years, for the truth, with the presidency of Erdogan, has increased both its dimension and its interventionism in international politics. It is a great country with which we have strong interests in the field. In reading some data of a simple geoeconomic nature of the relationship between Turkey and Italy I was amazed to find that more than 1,200 Italian companies (or with fundamental participation of Italian capital) are located in Turkey and that the exchange of exports between us and Turkey reaches 10 billion euros per year. We are faced with a country that has a long history, which comes, as was recalled in the debate, from Sèvres, from the Treaty of Lausanne, from the fact that that country has found its own borders and its own identity after the defeat of the war of 1915-1918 and after the annulment of the Ottoman Empire. It is a country that has tried over the years, continuously, especially during the Ataturk period, to regain its national dignity, its strength and its own dimension in that part of the world that is so difficult to maintain in balance. However, we are now faced with a situation of serious involution, after the coup attempt, which - it should be remembered, because some numbers count - has produced 241 deaths and almost 2,200 wounded and was not, therefore, a fake ballet, but it was an actual clash, on whose origins there is more than one hypothesis. Erdogan cultivates a hypothesis from great P2 ramified throughout the structure of the state: in the police, in the armed forces, in the university, in the newspapers, that is in all those structures that during these months has purged with hundreds of thousands of layoffs and with tens of thousands of arrests. Now, using a law that someone would like in Italy, which removes the healings of parliamentarians - Turkey, moreover, is the only country that has removed parliamentary healings and protection to the politics of parliamentarians - has come to arrest the MPs of the HDP, party to which the Democratic Party addresses its solidarity and its support, knowing that it is the only party, as you told us, with which we can try to sew, strenuously, the difficult situation of the Kurds. It is an act of brutality that clearly cannot agree with Erdogan. But from here to go further, that is to say that we must tighten up our relations with Turkey, withdraw the ambassador and do all these things, we pass. I would all pray to face the situation with the coldness necessary for a case like this. Turkey is a great country, it has a huge army and a lot of this army is, among other things, very close in certain areas to the various stations where our soldiers are also present. It is a country that we need to bring back to the core of the democratic countries and also within the framework of a European dialogue, to which, to be honest, the Turks will never have believed too much, but on which Europe certainly did not spend too much, because when you leave someone in the bathroom for a long time, without giving him the real chance to enter the ranks of the European nations, then it ends up jumping on the other side, in Europe it no longer comes and makes worse trouble. We believe we have a duty. We are a great democratic country and as such we have a duty to help Turkey get out of a certainly difficult phase, causing Erdogan not to make even more unholy choices than he has made, but at the same time keeping open all those margins of relationship and negotiation that allow us to review Turkey as a fundamental country in that chessboard. I say this all the more now that the United States of America appears oriented on that chessboard towards Russia and probably also towards the relationship with Turkey, knowing that Italy too can play a very important role there, precisely because we have not left Turkey outside Europe wanting to leave it and we have a long tradition tending, beyond anything else, to try to bring this country into the European Union. If we had done so, if we had at least put it in an enlarged situation, we would probably all have much less difficulty facing this situation today and would not have abandoned Turkey to its own destiny. This is the only thing we must not do: we must not abandon it to its destiny by taking positions of principle, which are all the more absurd because they would also be in a state of weakness of the whole Western democratic world. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u35	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, whom I thank for being available.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u36	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the death of Umberto Veronesi on 8 November, not only a world-famous oncologist disappears, but also an illustrious scholar and a man of the institutions, served as Minister of Health between 2000 and 2001 and as senator in the last legislature. Umberto Veronesi was born on the outskirts of Milan on 28 November 1925. After graduating in medicine and surgery at the beginning of the 1950s, he specializes in the study and treatment of cancer diseases. After some professional experience in Britain and France, he began working as a volunteer at the National Cancer Institute, of which he became Director-General in 1975. In 1965 he contributed to the creation of the Italian Association for Research on Cancer and to the foundation, in 1982, of the European School of Oncology. From 1985 to 1988 he presided over the European Organization for Research and Cancer Care. In 1991 he founded the European Institute of Oncology, a leading research centre in the field, of which he was scientific director from 1994 to 2000 and then from 2001 to 2014. In 1993 he was appointed a member of the National Commission responsible for drawing up a plan against cancer diseases and since 2003 he has been promoting the Foundation's activities, which has made extensive contributions to scientific progress and research in the field of oncology, cardiology and neuroscience. Among the initiatives of the Foundation, it is recalled in particular the Science for Peace project, launched in 2009 and supported by an international movement for peace led by illustrious scientists, including several Nobel Prize winners, with the aim of addressing scientifically the underlying causes of conflicts and inequalities, promoting concrete strategies for overcoming them. Since 2010 he has presided over the scientific committee of the Fondazione Italia-USA. As Minister of Health in the Second Amato Government, he is committed to introducing legislation on smoking bans in public places, thus laying the foundations for the entry into force in 2003 of the so-called Sirchia law. Moreover, in this capacity, it also introduces the gratuitousness of preventive screening of cancer diseases. Elected to the Senate in the Democratic Party's lists at the 2008 consultations, he joined the Education Commission and placed his expertise and experience at the service of the legislator, engaging in particular on issues related to scientific research, as well as the introduction of legislation on the discipline of early statements of treatment. In February 2011 he resigned from the senator to be president of the Nuclear Safety Agency, a position he left in September of the same year, following the outcome of the referendum against the production of electricity of nuclear origin in Italy. The name and memory of Umberto Veronesi will remain mainly linked to the valuable contribution made for the prevention and treatment of breast cancer, with particular reference to the invention of conservative surgery and the use of innovative techniques that can limit the psychological and aesthetic impact of the disease, as well as of course to increase the possibilities of complete healing. In his work as a doctor he has contributed to the salvation of so many human lives, constantly combining professional competence with an unmistakable trait of affability and human grace. Unanimously recognized his ability to empathize with the patient. During his long life, Umberto Veronesi also took part in numerous initiatives of civil commitment, without ever giving up to take clear positions on controversial and debated issues. These include initiatives on the legalisation of light drugs and their use for therapeutic purposes, the scientific approach to genetically modified organisms, the promotion of vegetarian nutrition and the protection of animals, the possibility of using biological wills avoiding forms of therapeutic aggressiveness and support for the use of nuclear energy. Veronesi's intellectual contribution and wide-ranging essay production, which have contributed to bringing wide-ranging sectors of public opinion closer to scientific issues, have always been oriented towards promoting a rational approach to research, averted from ideological preconceptions, in line with his training as a lay scientist. "Go forward, because the world needs science and reason": it is, in some ways, the synthesis of its intellectual legacy, collected by the homonymous Foundation. It is the message of the Veronesi man, but also of the scientist who, addressing young doctors and researchers, wrote: Be doubtful, be transgressive, if transgressing means going beyond the limit of dogma or the rigidity of the rule of law, as proof of that intellectual curiosity and of that love for research that represented the inspiring traits of his action as a doctor, a scholar, a man of institutions. I greet my son Alberto, present in the gallery, to whom I renew the expression of deep condolences and participation, and I invite the Assembly to observe a minute of recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u39	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, for the Senators of the Umberto Veronesi Democratic Party he was not only a great doctor and a great scientist, because in the previous legislature he was a senator of our Group and a valuable friend. And it is with this spirit of friendship that we all greet our son Alberto, who attends our session, and we ask him to bring to the whole family of Professor Veronesi the expressions of our pain and our embrace. With Umberto Veronesi we were seated in the same benches as Palazzo Madama and shared the same parliamentary positions. In those years, each of us approached him for advice, to know him or to ask him to take care of a cancer patient and to all Umberto Veronesi responded generously and with that human trait that those who knew him well remember. For us he was a very important colleague, who gave authority to our Group not only with his own science, but also for the extraordinarily simple words with which he could show his views on very delicate issues and, this afternoon, the time we have is not enough to give him the honour he deserves and to express all our affection and gratitude. Soon the senators and senators of the Democratic Party will promote in his honor a day of study and reflection, so that we can remember him for the much he has done and for the depth of what he has taught us. A day to address the issues that were dear to him: the spread among doctors and citizens of the culture of prevention, the independence of research and scientific method, the biological will for which he has fought so much and also that difficult but necessary relationship between science and politics that, as Minister of Health and Senator, Umberto Veronesi has always understood not as a comparison between two powers, but as a service to his country. We have known this in the very particular dimension of the parliamentary classrooms, where politics often hides the true nature of each of us. Instead, Umberto Veronesi was always the same, in the Senate or in the hospital, with friends or with those he met by chance and to all showed with transparency his passions, his attentions and his curiosities. He was a man open to life, a personality rich in interests, nourished by a vast cultural, professional and scientific experience. All held together by a great passion for a very intense public mission, clear to anyone who was lucky enough to share with him the great civil battles for which he fought. For Veronesi, every patient was, first of all, a person. A person who, whether he cared for her or if by chance he was asked for advice, was always the absolute focus of his attention. But, at the same time, it was in his character to think big, to think about the whole of humanity, and to work on building a method that would allow as many people as possible to use the scientific results of his research and the progress he achieved with a daily experience he practiced to the end. We all know how much humanity owes it for the extraordinary results achieved in the treatment and prevention of cancer. And we know how much women, in particular, owe to the genius with which she has always treated them, protecting their dignity and femininity. He had a long vision and I was struck to know that he dreamed of being able to see, before dying, the ultimate victory of science over cancer. His was a great desire and, despite the great progress he himself has contributed so much, he did not see it fully realized in the long time of his life. But we know that when man can say he has definitely beaten cancer, the main merit will be Umberto Veronesi, great Italian and great Milanese. [[Applause from the PD, CoR and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u42	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Umberto Veronesi was a great and beautiful person. An excellent scientist, for many years at the forefront of international affairs. Great organizer, he knew that science alone wasn't enough and he was always able to put together a team of people who could support him and help him, for the benefit of the patient. He was able to find substantial private funding, always for the sole benefit of the patient. He was a capable communicator and was able to make public opinion and the profane interlocutor in medical and scientific matters understand how certain complex and painful problems must be addressed. Above all, he had an extraordinary human availability. In every day of his long professional activity, Umberto Veronesi placed himself with all his patients as a person who participated in the physical pain and psychological tensions of women and men, who found in him a true and participated support. He was a free and sincere man. He has always supported his convictions with intellectual honesty, respecting ideas other than his own, without pursuing popularity at all costs. In books and interviews he made considerations that made us think about important aspects of life. Thanks to women and men like Umberto Veronesi, especially since the second half of the last century, the average age has increased considerably and the quality of life of the third, fourth and fifth ages has improved considerably. Forza Italia greets him and pays homage with emotion and affection and participates in the pain of his son Alberto with real emotion [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u45	ANITORI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the name Veronesi is linked to great scientific and cultural contributions, recognized and appreciated all over the world, for which it has been awarded with ten honorary degrees in medicine, recognized by Argentina, Brazil, Greece and Spain. His life, in fact, has been spent in clinical activity and research on the prevention and treatment of cancer in general. He founded the Italian Cancer Research Association (AIRC), the European School of Oncology and the European Institute of Oncology. His watchwords were research and secularism: public research, free from the interests of large pharmaceutical groups. Among the great bequests and conquests that we owe to Veronesi, among others, I want to highlight in particular the results achieved in research on the lymph node sentinel, bell about the state of progress of the oncology disease of the breast, and the adjuvant therapy, once opposed by those doctors who did not love working in teams. Veronesi in fact wanted to put the patient at the center and medicine at his service. In particular, women owe much to the figure of the Milanese oncologist, for the size and spread of conservative surgery for some types of mammary tumors. The preliminary data of the studies in these areas were published in 1981, on the prestigious "New England journal of medicine" and from that moment began in the world the great evolution of thought that allowed, in the following years, women with breast cancer to avoid the removal of the breast with the quadrantectomy combined with radiotherapy, with less psychological, aesthetic and sexual impact. More recently, his research continued on the same path, with the biopsy of the sentinel lymph node, to avoid axillary dissection in cases where the lymph nodes are healthy. In the last few years he has revolutionized the procedures of radiotherapy of mammary tumors, introducing intraoperative radiotherapy, which runs out in a single session, during the surgery itself. Obviously there is still much to do in the area of breast cancer, it is necessary to extend the age group in which mammographic screening is carried out to all women, from the age of 40 onwards. All this in order to ensure that what our Veronesi said is given full implementation: to have breath units in which women can be followed and cured and placed in the center. In fact, an important aspect of Veronesi's contribution was seeing the patient at the center of medicine and doing research where it is possible. It cares better where research is done and therefore it is necessary to provide strong incentives for those who invest in research and do so seriously, so that the human, scientific and ethical legacy of Umberto Veronesi does not disappear unnecessarily, but can be even more manure for future research and innovations in the field of cancer. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u48	REPETTI (Misto-IPL). Mr President, a lot has been said about Umberto Veronesi, many good things, especially about his great merits as a doctor and certainly Veronesi was a great oncologist and a great scientist. But Veronesi was much more: he was, first of all, a great man who deeply loved life and who sought, with his knowledge, his discoveries, his sensitivity and his passion, to teach us all to love life, to love it in everything, even at the dramatic moment of its end. In these days they have aired several times his beautiful interview, in which he said, with great sweetness, that it is necessary to accept with serenity also the moment of death because without death there is no life, life does not continue and even would make sense. Veronesi loved life all and had great respect for living beings all, including animals, and this was one of the reasons for his choice to be vegetarian. His greatest effort was to fight evil and cancer is one of the expressions of evil. He fought it to give back the joy of living to those who were losing it, but we cannot forget his battles so that the moment of death was as serene as possible, when no longer postponed. He fought so that at the delicate moment of the passage between life and death human dignity would not be trampled on. He fought for the right to self-determination of man to be affirmed and fought for piety, the true one, to exceed ideological and religious limits. Veronesi was indeed a very courageous man, strong of his beliefs based on logic, but a logic supported by human sensitivity, he faced with great lucidity delicate topics, taboos in Italy, like that of euthanasia and he always did it with the utmost intellectual honesty. Well, I believe - and I appeal to all my fellow senators at this time - that in order to really remember him, in order to pay tribute to Veronesi, we should also have some courage, even a small part of the courage that he had, and deal without fear with important issues, in my opinion no longer postponed, such as the end of life. That is why, here in this House, I would like to appeal to all Members to open a real debate on these issues in order to make our country as civil as possible. President, I should like to conclude by thanking Professor Umberto Veronesi and his entire family, especially his son Alberto here. I would like to thank him for everything he has given us and taught us. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u51	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, on behalf of my Group too, I would like to express my closeness to the Veronesi family, because Alberto has lost his father and his family a great man. But even more than being close to the family as a political group, I am lucky to have a close proximity to Professor Umberto Veronesi also as a doctor. He was a medical colleague and I was lucky enough to operate with him back in 1983; I also had the chance to understand, seeing him operating, pioneer of the quadrantectomy and preservation of an organ important for the woman, that perhaps I was not suitable to be a surgeon. Veronesi was a socialist comrade, a colleague of the National Assembly of the PSI. Thanks to the foresight of Bettino Craxi he had been called as a professional figure of science, since the socialists have always had great attention to research, science and men who have made great in Europe and in the world Italy and Umberto was one of these. So, with him, I shared for years the carnation that I hold in my hand, and he also ties me to the fact that he was a fellow senator in the 16th legislature. A socialist, Giuliano Amato, called him to lead the Ministry of Health and in this important Dicastery he did something that no one had ever managed to do: the anti-smoking law, which exponentially saved tens, hundreds of thousands of lives in Italy. He reported scientifically and then from the legislative point of view the severity of smoking for the onset of chronic diseases, cardiovascular and neoplastic diseases. But Umberto Veronesi was much more. He was a great pacifist. I remember that when discussing with him he said that the doctor cannot and must not strike, because the hospital doctor must always be ready to intervene. He realized that the doctor has a much higher vocational training than many other figures, while it is the taillight, from the point of view of recognition also economic, compared to other professions and categories (I want to mention one about all: that of the magistrates, who earn double or triple and risk nothing, like doctors instead). Let us remember that he also had the courage to chair the Italian Nuclear Safety Agency and, when someone did not give him the right recognitions and the right seat, he also resigned in protest. He was a great scientist and a great politician; I remember him, at this moment, especially as a great socialist who knew, even in difficult times, how to stand up against certain superstitions, such as the therapy Di Bella, who had the courage to denounce, just as he had the courage to denounce that perhaps research on genetically modified organisms was to continue to pursue because they can cure people and therefore did not side with false populism against this form of research. Hello, Umberto. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u54	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, it is clear that Professor Veronesi's memory can inspire in us various reflections for his political life and for his life as a doctor, a researcher, a teacher, a person engaged in social affairs and on issues that were and are ethically sensitive. Veronesi recognizes the great value of clinical surgeon for having identified diagnostic and, even more, surgical techniques that have guaranteed dignity to women, avoiding strongly demolishing interventions, that came to harm not only the dignity of the person, but also his life of relationship. He was a man who caused, even in reason - as you rightly mentioned in the commemoration - a secularity of a contentious order, a very lively debate, which we absolutely cannot cancel in this House. A debate in which Professor Veronesi's position was anthropologically well-specific and referred to a current of thought in the bioethics field called "functionalism," where the dignity of the person was recognized, yes, in his intrinsic existence, but it was certainly a dignity that was conditioned by his quality of life. That is why the recognition of a synonym between dignity and quality of life has led him to support those interventions in bioethics and I would say even more, in this House, of a biopolitical order of great interest, but also - we must also be honest from the intellectual point of view - of great criticality. In fact, we know that Professor Veronesi was in favour not only of embryo testing and the use of embryos for research, but also strongly advocated not so much the early statements of treatment, but the anticipated provisions of treatment and biological will. In other words, it was also in favour of euthanasic procedures, both in the active form and in the passive form. It is recognized and recognized to Professor Veronesi, also because of a polite and contentically strong dialectic, which characterized some moments of our life, in the context of the themes of bioethics and biopolitics, a secularity and honesty in his argument that led him to be a witness and not only proponents of a theoretical order of procedures that could be considered detrimental to the dignity of the person. It is a secularism, therefore, that was recognized in the context of his research activity and not only because, as he has repeated many times, one must also be transgressive. But transgression, in the field of research, is a foundation, because if one is not transgressive, if one does not go further, in the field of research one stops on positions assumed as force, without questioning. The foundation of research is to question, not only what is done, but also what can fall back as a common good. With regard to the dimension of dignity, he recognized a dignity of a secular order, a secularity which, I would like to emphasize, had its own connotation of a religious order; not as a religious confession, but as an absolute point of reference, which came to justify any other action. Another very important aspect - and I end here, because we could still speak for a long time, especially with regard to the different positions assumed in the bioethical and biopolitical sphere - is that this dignity he recognized in the perfection of what could be a state of well-being, a well-being that was not only of body order but also of relational and psychological order. We could also define it as ethics of communication and relationship, which he emphasized and to which he recognized an intrinsic dignity for every person, an ethics that went to conflict with the other ethic of relationship, the one that is based on the ontological dignity of every human being and that does not recognize processes of euthanasic order, or therapeutic aggressiveness. Our remembrance of Veronesi is a reminder of the scientist, the researcher, the great clinical surgeon who has been able to arouse very interesting debates and healthy intellectual provocation and, why not, spiritual, in the search, perhaps, of a path that is not common but has a unique goal, which was always the good and well-being of the individual person, of a woman, in this case, suffering from cancer pathologies. I firmly believe that the contribution made by Professor Veronesi was, not only significant, but I would also say unique with regard to the elegance in the welfare relationality that he knew brilliantly to cure, not building it or seeking it, but living it personally. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u57	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, 90 years spent very well. One of the greatest talents of the world's surgery, Umberto Veronesi, has died at the age of ninety, an innovator, who invented surgical techniques to intervene on women suffering from breast cancer. Veronesi loved to say that a woman had to leave the operating room as she had entered. When, in 1969, he exhibited in Geneva, in front of a global assembly, his research on quadrantectomy (i.e. the intervention that limits the export to the breast quadrant under which there is the tumor nodule, considered non-invasive compared to the then existing dogma of mastectomy) he was heard almost with discomfort. From there a whole series of researches that will lead him to intervene on a tumor that, at the time, was considered absolutely unhealable. A firm supporter of the usefulness of prevention and attentive to the psychology of the patient, Veronesi has promoted the spread of healthy lifestyles and correct nutrition. With his Italian Oncology Institute, he revolutionized the world of cancer research: "I'm often told that I'm a successful man, but that's not true, I, after all, failed, because I promised myself that I would die after seeing the cancer defeated, and I'm afraid it won't happen. But I can say that I have won an important battle, and it is to convince my colleagues to change their strategy against cancer. In an interview Veronesi stated that the last part of his life was beautiful: I don't have to fight for a career anymore, and that's a great joy. Then he was enriched by knowledge, experience and a much more detached and impartial philosophy of life. The meter of judgment is more independent and less passionate. So it is right to live until the last day without the desire to leave, but it is also right to accept death as a necessary finale for the replacement of humanity. He claimed to have treated 30,000, maybe 50,000 patients. Veronesi said that death is a natural fact, it is part of the biological design of nature that involves birth, reproduction and death; so it is for every living organism. If one is aware of this principle, death is faced with more serenity. He also argued that science is not concerned with immortality, but with life - spans in good health. He supported: "An intense life dilates the time that, by its nature, flows careless and inexorably. It is we who must adapt and find, in our lifetime, the best capacity to express ourselves. The brain is the conductor: do not develop, train, expand, make it more and more lively, it means wasting the most extraordinary component of our body. When asked what he would have liked to have been written on his tombstone, he replied: Here lies a man who has contributed to the control of the evil of the century. Alberto, this country is proud of your dad, just like you are. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u60	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the privilege of remembering Umberto Veronesi in this House, the same place where we saw him at work in the last parliamentary term. I like to remember him saying that a great scientist, a great doctor, has left; a man with an affable, helpful, reassuring trait has left; but also an Italian respected in the world, a forerunner of the times, a man with a strong civil and political passion, a pioneer of modern oncology. Let me say, however, that a true liberal has left, in the deepest sense of the word. What Umberto Veronesi did, especially in the field of oncology, we can say that it changed the history of medicine and gave hope and smile back to many women. By beating in favor of the humanization of treatment, he put the patient at the centre forever and thus revolutionized breast cancer surgery, proposing first non-invasive interventions that had more respect for the body of women. It is thanks to him that more than twenty years ago the total mastectomy has given way to quadrantectomy and it is always thanks to him that the plastic surgeon entered the operating room for the contemporary reconstruction of the breast and the removal of the so-called sentinel lymph node, which marked the beginning of a real era of our medicine. Women, even those who have not had a direct experience of the disease, know what I mean. Umberto Veronesi taught us not to be afraid of illness anymore and to trust science. He told us: you won't die of cancer anymore, you'll die of cancer. And we all know how this confidence, still too often put to the test by new strong and dangerous darkening regurgitations, constitutes a fundamental flame to be kept always on, provided that it is always welded and anchored tenaciously to the values of research and science. The attention to the patient, the humanization of therapies, the trust in the scientific method and the ability to always look to the future with confidence and rationality are values that Veronesi has transmitted to the Italian and international scientific community and that today are a consolidated heritage of our health system and the whole world of research. Thanks also to his generous commitment and his extraordinary scientific intuitions, today's commitment to cancer allows us not to consider this disease as incurable: more and more Italians know that cancers can be defeated today with effective therapies and early diagnosis, but that they can also be prevented and from this derives his commitment in multiple awareness campaigns to make Italians understand the importance of correct lifestyles and healthy and correct nutrition. I believe that humanization and innovation at the same time can be defined as the distinctive figure of the commitment of the scientist, of man, of the researcher Umberto Veronesi, the guiding thread of his human, professional and even institutional life. I met him in 2000, he was recently Minister of Health in the Amato Government and I was advisor to the Puglia Region. He showed me with passion and with great simplicity the project he was promoting with Renzo Piano to redesign and improve the quality of Italian hospitals, all built in a logic and with a new and different perspective, according to the principles of departmentalized construction. From the union with Renzo Piano and other architects was born a decalogue on which many of the projects of the new Italian hospitals built from then until today have been based, and which should still be a milestone for the construction of the next ones: humanization, urbanity, interactivity, sociality, organization, appropriateness, reliability, innovation, research, training. I wanted to remind them because I believe that, especially today, in the presence of the difficulties faced by the National Health Service, between sustainability, universality and fairness, there is a need to guarantee more and better the right to health, also drawing on the considerable legacy of proposals, ideas, and working methods that Umberto Veronesi leaves us. I believe that, in our not simple task as legislators, the lesson and legacy of Umberto Veronesi, in the same logic that you, President, have just mentioned, referring to the figure of this illustrious colleague and scientist, referring to science and reason, mixed in an extraordinary balance, represent an important legacy from the point of view of the path and the perspective to build a horizon that gives us greater certainty and less concern. The best way to honor his memory is to honor these commitments. Brunetto Latini, whom the Supreme poet recalls in the 15th singing of Hell, wrote these words: " (...) and those who deal with great things testify, that glory gives the mighty man a second life, this is to say, that after his death, the name that remains of his good works shows that he is still alive." Here, I believe that Umberto Veronesi will remain alive forever even if we know, with tenacity, with commitment and intellectual honesty, to restore not only dignity to politics but also to give a pragmatic and operational sense to our daily commitment as legislators. This is the hope that makes me conclude this thought, with which I offer a heartfelt witness of condolence and closeness, on behalf of the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, to the family, the scientific community and to the whole of this Assembly, which has had the honour to include it as one of its most important representatives. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u61	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u62	Mr President, on behalf of the Government, I agree with the many words that have been said by my fellow Members in this House in honour of Umberto Veronesi. In particular, I agree with your words and fully agree with them, Mr President. The son Alberto, whom I met casually this morning, told me that the first phone call of condolence he had received was that of the President of the Council, testifying how grateful this country is to his father for what he has given to all of us. Umberto Veronesi was a social intellectual, a liberal socialist, a scientist who has always fought - often against the current - for people, for the rights of choice of people, in particular and even in the most complicated moments of life. The dignity of the people was the lighthouse that enlightened, along with the freedom of the same. It has knocked down social walls and civil walls and, above all, the great wall of prejudice. A great doctor, who has worked beyond himself for the right to life and for the quality of life of women. He expressed a concept of ethics not as dogma, but as perpetual research. The common good is often spoken of as an outpouring. He was a worker of the common good. We will remember him for the free and committed spirit, whose secularity led him to be a mild civil avant-garde. In politics he passed on those values, helped to innovate rules and broaden concepts and politics will honor him if he can avoid turning his gaze backwards, instead feeding the future of rights that tear the screen of the rejection of the other different from us, the screen of fear, the screen of indifference. He was one of the not many who, when intervening on television, called attention, so one could say about him and him: I didn't see you, but I listened to you. With this memory and with an intense soul I would like to tell my son Alberto that the condolences of the Government and the country are a very heartfelt and much due act. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u63	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2224, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 1134 and 1648. She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u64	Mr President, the law we are about to vote on is a very important law. (18.27) (Following MATTESINI). A law much awaited by health professionals, but also by citizens and associations of their representation. It is a fundamental step in rebuilding that trust pact between patients and healthcare professionals, but also between healthcare professionals and organisations. It is a new and important page that replaces the bad history of recent years, characterized by defensive medicine, caused by an innumerable increase in appeals that have created a situation of difficulty in the medical-patient relationship and a discussion and decisions that do not always meet the challenge on the issue of the appropriateness of the cure. We know that the medical-patient relationship is, in many respects, the fundamental element of good care; if the relationship is of distrust, it is there that expectations are disappointed. But it is right here in the medical-patient relationship that a great deal can and must be done to solve this problem and this law does so. On the other hand, restoring the patient's confidence in the doctor, but also the doctor's confidence in the patient, is too underestimated; it is a crucial element for the genesis of fear at the base of defensive medicine. To do this, to rebuild the trust between doctor and patient, both doctors and patients need to be available, and this law lays the foundations. But it is also necessary that the health administrations, the regions, the ASLs, but also the Government itself keep in mind that the time devoted to the patient is inseparable for the appropriateness of the cure and not lost time. Of course, this has to do with the health organization. I said that defensive medicine has become in recent years one of the problems of increasing impact on health policies, since it is closely linked to the issue of safety of care, as well as adverse events and possible professional responsibilities. I spoke before defensive medicine as an increasing phenomenon, driven both by the increased sensitivity of citizens to their rights and by increased expectations, by pressure from the media, by changes in the medical-patient relationship. But another important element has been, over time, the legal evolution of the concept and function of health responsibility in relation to behaviour and adverse events related to possible errors. But also on this point, on the need to clarify and define precisely the interpretations of the specific rules, we propose a clear solution, which will certainly also loosen the use made of this legal development which is not always too clear. Look, this measure - it must be said very loudly - turns the page: it innovates and fully meets the expectations of health professionals and citizens. The same title holds together, in an inseparable unicum, the safety of care and professional responsibility of healthcare professionals. We made an important choice in the Senate: we changed the title and we kept together in an inseparable way security and responsibility, because, if we had addressed it, as it was in the previous title, to professional responsibility alone, it could have appeared, in the unconscious and in the external message, also as an act of defensive medicine. While, together with the safety of care, the first objective of this law is to put professionals in the condition of working safely and quietly, basing their clinical, diagnostic and therapeutic choices on the evidence of literature and not on fear. On the other hand, the issue of the safety of care is today one of the most important challenges for the future of health care in the Western world, even in Italy. This is in relation to both the limited resources and the ageing of the population, but also to an increasingly complex medicine for the number of diseases and clinical diagnostic tools available. So it is really necessary to focus on control and risk control if we are to reduce litigation and the costs of compensation. Certainly this of the safety of the medical-patient relationship is a fundamental element; for this reason safety comes before any other matter. And that is why it is really important that a whole part of the law, starting with Article 1, speaks clearly about the safety of treatment. I am thinking precisely of Article 1, where it is specified that the safety of care is a constituent part of the right to health and is pursued in the interests of the individual and the community. This is a very important step, that in paragraph 2 of Article 1 is highlighted even more, because precisely it is stated that the safety of care is carried out also through the whole of all activities aimed at preventing and managing the risk related to the provision of health services, and the appropriate use of structural, technological and organizational resources. Look, there is also an important fact here, concerning a change made in the course of a very important and in-depth debate in the Senate. I am talking about the amendment with respect to the text of the Chamber, having added, in paragraph 3 of Article 1, that all personnel, including the freelancers who operate there under the convention, contribute to risk prevention activities, and that this aspect concerns not only the public, but all public and private health and socio-sanitary structures. Another important aspect is Article 2, which gives the regional ombud the role of health guarantor. Equally important is the establishment of the Centre for the Management of Health Risk and Patient Safety, which collects regional data on risks and adverse events, as well as on litigation, and transmits all this six-monthly, by means of a unified telematic procedure at national level (also an important step), to the National Observatory for Good Health Safety Practices. This observatory has an important task of identifying appropriate measures for the prevention and management of health risks, as well as monitoring good practices. Here too I would like to stress the importance of the objective of reporting systems, which, of course, in addition to allowing a measurement of the phenomenon, are an important element, that is, a flywheel of organizational and cultural change, favouring, among other things, an approach to error not finalized or at least not only aimed at the search for individual responsibility, but at the identification of those latent factors that are linked to the organization, including all the rules that determine the working methods rather than the presence of protocols and so on. It must be said that, given that human error cannot be completely eliminated, it is also true that the organization must aim to create conditions so that the error is as avoidable as possible and at the same time create an environment in which professionals can express the best professionalism and skills. We must be aware that the organisation is a fundamental tool for promoting health. Work must therefore be done to put aside individual and informal models of intervention for the benefit of formal and shared modalities. See that such an organizational approach, which is within the law, because it is a consequence, allows you to do one important thing: to increase the reliability of the system and to relocate the patient's expectations, as well as the choices of professionals, giving, among other things, a new value, more participatory and transparent, to the medical-patient relationship. Really the organizational-assistant paths allow to overcome that ethic of self-referentiality that still characterizes some professional fields. I would also like to point out that the certainty of a clinical path well oriented in the overall welfare system of reference favors a vision that goes from the logic of performance to the logic of the product-result. Among the competences assigned to the Observatory provided for in Article 3 is the training and updating of health workers. This is an important point. Among other things, last year's law of stability had already intervened on the training, with the famous paragraph 539 which precisely defines that all public and private structures must activate audit paths or other methodologies for the study of internal processes and the most frequent critical issues. This is a fundamental point for the preparation and carrying out of continuous training activities of staff. We know that training plays a strategically important role in terms of the adequacy and safety and quality of care, and that it must be carried out both in the academic phase and, continuously, in the whole of professional activity. Training must enable all professionals to face change in health, which is never an end in itself, not only because of technological changes but because of changing diseases and changing the demands of citizens. We need to strengthen the aspects of teamwork, but also self-reflection and evaluation of activity and tools to improve it. The training, as well as aiming for cultural and value change, must guarantee professionals the acquisition of the flexibility necessary to manage innovation and changes within increasingly complex care contexts, which call in the field a relational capacity and an interdisciplinarity. The last point that I would like to highlight is the important forecast of the preparation and publication on the website of each structure of that summary half-yearly report on adverse events and the consequent actions put in place, precisely in a logic of transparency towards citizens. It is equally important to have established the obligation for the health structure to provide documentation within seven days (a maximum of 30 days for integration) to those entitled to it. The last very important point concerns Article 8, i.e. the attempt at conciliation. Those who intend to take action before the civil court may proceed only if the conciliation fails or if the proceedings do not end within a period of six months from the filing of the appeal. Having talked to many, the conviction is that with this law the health system, professionals and citizens will be able to regain the centrality: their professionalism, on the one hand, and the right to have appropriate care, on the other. This can only have two effects: saving resources and improving care. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u65	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this text has been a long-awaited response for more than a decade and has been judged positively by us, with a vote in favour of the House. In my opinion, it was further improved in the 12th Commission of the Senate, to which I have the honour to belong, and I warmly thank my colleagues and offices for their work. I hope, however, that further improvements will also be accepted. The country needs an up-to-date regulatory framework in a field that, due to the size of the litigation that characterizes it, has assumed great importance: for its defensive medicine issues are calculated about ten billion per year, about 20% of the health expenditure, and there is also a big problem for the lengthening of waiting lists. As can be seen from the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry of the 16th legislature on health errors, 99.1 percent of the case ends with absolution. But this means that, almost always, the doctor suffers a damage to his career and his professional image. I believe that this text strikes a fair balance between doctor and patient. A doctor who is not afraid to act, a patient who is not weak towards the doctor. The right to care freely and the right to be treated best. It is therefore destitute of every foundation the idea that some have made the text in question unbalanced in favour of professionals; but it is going to build a new medical-patient relationship that I hope will serve to reaffirm a mutual relationship of trust and true therapeutic alliance, necessary for both. It is a relationship that is becoming weaker also thanks to the media, which take advantage of the rare cases of malasanity in Italy, not due to our health system - an excellence in the world - but to individual cases, to degrade an entire category of health care, which, especially today, in lack of funds, often operate in dramatic situations. However, in my opinion, it is necessary to ensure a clear system of adequate clinical risk in relation to the responsibilities of individual actors. I think we need to further improve and clarify the subject of the guidelines, which must not be retroactive and must be very clear, although as a doctor I can say that the guidelines are sometimes not followed strictly, but they are especially useful for those people who have less experience. Let me give you a very brief example: in neonatology the guidelines say that a severe premature, around 700 grams of weight and with certain vital parameters, must be left to itself and see if it is able to survive. More than 800 grams are provided for the care of the ICU. Now, how can a doctor of experience, in front of a premature of 700 or 680 grams, with parameters that demonstrate its vitality and its liveliness, abandon it and perhaps become therapeutically aggressive - what does not happen - on a premature of 850 grams that clearly shows that it can only be a vegetable? I believe that an interpretative window should be left to the doctor's experience and professional ability. I believe that the prediction of direct action by the alleged injured person against the operator will not completely solve the problem of defensive medicine and will require onerous policies especially for orthopedists, gynecologists and neurologists. I also hope that in rethinking the differentiation between the non-contractual reading of the liability of the professionals and the contractual one of the structures, as well as, with regard to the discipline of the action of reval, the consequences of the extrajudicial agreements concluded by the companies with the patients and the discipline of the insurance covers that continue not to concern the damages caused by management and organizational deficits of the health companies deserve further reflection. I welcome the provisions on so-called self-insurance that can often be improved, but a solution should be found to the obstacle posed by the swirling increase in insurance costs, especially for young doctors. However, I hope that with the adoption of this law we can finally align Italy with the most advanced European legislation on the responsibility of health professionals. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u67	She is registered to speak Senator Maturani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to extend special thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Amedeo Bianco, to the President of our Commission, and also to the Government, in the person of Mr De Filippo, but also to the Minister of Justice, Mr Orlando, as well as to the Commissions and to the important work, not only of great cooperation but of deepening, which was carried out in the Senate with the Commissions who dealt with this rule. Many people in this House have said this: this provision has been awaited in our country for more than twenty years. The House of Deputies approved it at first reading. This is a measure - and it is important to stress this, as other Members have done before me, these days - which is the result of Parliament's commitment. It is important because in the last 15 years Parliament has constantly measured itself with this problem, through draft laws, discussions and with a commitment that, however, in the past years, has unfortunately never found a right solution. It is therefore important to emphasise this aspect, because I believe that the work of the House of Deputies and the Senate must be recognized as a willingness to achieve this result, through a debate that has taken its steps in the capacity for mutual and punctual listening within Parliament and among the parliamentary forces. I believe that the work that Parliament, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate have done in accompaniment to the draft law under consideration was not only that of having listened, in the hearings held in both branches of Parliament, to a great many subjects, who are the actors and the different protagonists of the draft law under consideration, but also that of having undertaken to transfer the discussion and confrontation to the country. Even the initiatives promoted by the parliamentarians, which took place in many cities of the country and have seen involved, in a timely and precise discussion, the stakeholders involved in the measure under consideration, starting with the citizens and associations representing their rights and their voice. I believe that this has been an important path, which has not only helped us to understand and understand, in such a complex and difficult matter, what the right choices should be, that really gave a sign of an overall reform, such as what we are discussing today in this House and which the country needed. I believe that in the European panorama we were the only protagonists, or almost, of a culturally backward legislation in this sense. The one under examination is not the law of doctors, as someone improperly wanted to define it. Certainly this is the law that has as its first objective to rebuild the frayed fabric of trust and relationship between citizens and health personnel and health care in general that characterizes our country. At the heart of our discussion was precisely the fundamental constitutional principle, aimed at giving a just and appropriate response to the right to health of Italian citizens, which would contain the safety of care and the serenity of those who, actor of the response to the disease and its care, carry out a health profession in our country. In this House, we have gone through all the aspects of this important reform in these days and I will therefore not consider myself with a new illustration of the articles of the bill, because I do not think it is necessary. The rapporteur, Senator Bianco, has done this in a timely manner, and so have my fellow Members who have spoken before me. I wanted to stress the important aspect of the philosophy that accompanied the measure. We are convinced that this reform will also lead to significant economic savings for the National Health Service. I am not here to articulate the reasons why I think this is because they have been abundantly illustrated in these two days. The measure is so important that part of it has been included in the 2016 budget. I believe that judicial health disputes and their economic impact on the National Health Service are something that should not be underestimated. In fact, our National Health Service, which is still an important and unique model in the European panorama, for the right to health that guarantees Italian citizens I believe needs savings in order to be able to invest further on innovations, favoring and accentuating the health response to citizens. But this is certainly not the fundamental aspect that accompanied everyone's commitment to achieving today, at second reading, a step away from the adoption of this reform. There are many issues in this area as well. With a model national health service in Europe for rights and guarantees, this was the aspect that put us at the last place because of conflict we were created and because the relationship between the citizen and the health professions, which is also psychologically, a fundamental element of the success of care interventions, is no longer characterized by trust and trust. Now, with this measure it becomes a priority element that has pushed us to work with strength and tenacity, especially to overcome the aspects that have covered the legal path. We know how important it was to compare justice in the Commission on this measure and on the articles dealing with this matter. It was also important and tiring to confront the Ministry of Justice in order to arrive at solutions. With regard to the sensitive and particular issue - I said it before, but I think it is right to stress it - not only have we made an important contribution in research and in the achievement of solutions, but with our work and with the comparison we have also made an important task of modifying a prevailing culture. I believe that this is an important political fact to stress. The comparison in the Commission was - I repeat - important, of a high level and thickness. We have had a uniformity of thought about the need to approve this legislation. I think that the debate on the amendments, which will take place from today, will still be able to find some further adjustment. Here in the Senate we have made some changes and have enriched the provision, but we must not forget to recognize and thank our colleague Federico Gelli for the work done in the House. That was in fact the important and fundamental element that allows us to be one step away from the approval in Senate of this provision, with a third reading to the House that we all hope is a quick passage in order to be able to deliver to the country this overall reform, before the end of this year. I am sure that this reform will reopen an important dialogue between citizens who will see their rights to information recognized, to the speed of time. This reform will therefore build an important relationship of trust and mutual respect between the national health system and Italian citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u69	The general debate is closed. [[Senator Caliendo points out that he wants to intervene.]] What are you talking about, Senator Caliendo? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I wanted three minutes to speak in the debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Caliendo, as the general discussion began yesterday, you had plenty of time to sign up to intervene. If so, I will give you the floor during the examination of the amendments. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). But it's early. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You know there are rules, and if I break them with you, then I'm gonna have to break them too often. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u70	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank the Members who have spoken in the general debate, those who have been patiently present in the debate. I would like to thank them because they have further clarified the meaning and scope of this measure in their speeches, sharing what I mentioned in my introductory report to the debate. I therefore believe that my reply can easily be limited to certain aspects which, in the course of the debate, have experienced some concern, if not some differentiation. I believe that the first question concerns guidelines. You know that it is not so much the technical-scientific aspect of the guidelines that has created problems. Let's say that some problems and some concerns arise from article 3 of the so-called Balduzzi decree, then converted into law, which first refers to the guidelines. From the technical-scientific point of view and professional practice, we have long known (and it is consolidated in literature and technical-scientific and professional orientation), that the guidelines are recommendations, guidelines, instruments for helping decisions, precisely because the development of medicine from this point of view also makes us understand how complicated it is, on pathologies and whatever else, to standardize treatments or choices. This is already known. It became a slightly more delicate passage once it was transferred to criminal law or civil law, which we know can be framed in the form of precautionary rules. So much so that when the Balduzzi decree was sent by the court of Milan to the Constitutional Court, the latter raised an objection to the guidelines asking who drew them, in what way and how they were defined so that they could rise to the characteristics of precautionary rules. This has been a concern, but it is also true, I must say, that the jurisprudential interpretation of the guidelines has immediately conformed to what was the technical-professional orientation, saying (and also expressing it in sentences of great significance) that the professional does not necessarily have to adhere to the guidelines when these are not consistent and adapted to the concrete case, meaning by concrete case not an anonymous, an abstract patient of a trial but that patient, with his clinical history, with its clinical complexity, human, relational and anything else or to the objective conditions in which it operates: the availability of diagnostics, tools, organization and so on. So I would say that the judiciary has perfectly framed, from this point of view, the scope of the guidelines. Not by chance in the text, compared to the Balduzzi decree, we are talking about recommendations for the guidelines, precisely to underline this aspect. We were concerned, also because of the importance that the Constitutional Court had at the time, to build a system of production of guidelines that had its solidity. Let's face it, let's talk about the solidity of the subjects who propose the guidelines and the subjects that these guidelines must assume, transferring them in professional practices, in the daily activities and in the logic of effectiveness and cost-effectiveness that are instruments of governance of the system of health protection. Of course, it is also necessary to worry about the methodological qualification with which the guidelines are constructed. We are not talking about abstract things because they are known in international scientific literature: they are real checks flow, flow lists that report how, from a methodological point of view, with which items and what parameters the guidelines should be formed. With this legislative text, we believe that we have made a great contribution to this. Then it will be possible to improve and, when the national system of guidelines is reconstituted, there will be additional mechanisms for involving subjects, scientific groups and scientific communities, as is the case in other countries, but the aim is to give a reliable and transparent system to report the choices, to report behaviors, to report professional conduct and I would also add the organizational and management conduct of organizations. The second issue is a little more sensitive and concerns the civil liability of structures and professionals. You know I'm a doctor, so I treat this matter with due humility. In fact, it is understandable that, although I have dealt with this issue for many years and also in other roles, and although I have participated in hundreds of conferences, I merely read the conclusions contained in a report on the work of the National Commission established by the Minister of Health Lorenzin on the subject of defensive medicine and professional responsibility. I am referring to the so-called separation of the disciplines of civil liability (the structure of the contractual obligation). The obligation is a concept that comes from the civil contract. It is the same contract for which a company, once built a house, must reply that it does not collapse and has no structural defects. This is the same case, which is transferred within the health structure. One of the elements of the debate was precisely the distinction between the contractual responsibility of the structure and the non-contractual liability of operators in the health professions operating within the structures. I just want to remind you that, correctly, the text states that professionals who directly assume a contractual obligation with the patient maintain liability for the obligation, i.e. a contractual liability. Of course, the Commission was composed of judges presided over by the President of the National Forensic Council, forensics, clinicians and officials of the Ministry. The report reads as follows: It is hardly the case to add that the Italian model, in the configuration that has gone away assuming, differed from most of the models of the other systems of the Member States of the European Union, in which, while sometimes using some technique of reversal of the burden of proof - that is in our order between contract and non-contractual - the system of medical responsibility (in the report we speak of medical responsibility, but we speak - this is the other innovation - of all operators of the health profession, because the rate of competence has grown, but also the rate of responsibility and therefore - I repeat - we speak of all) is based exclusively on non-contractual liability. Those models also clearly distinguish the positions of the health structure from that of the operator the medical profession, because they take into account the fact that the health structure offers an articulated service, including hospitality, services, the supply of medicines and medical instruments, the main and collateral therapies, and it is, public or private, whether or not it is an undertaking, as understood in the language of Community law, while the operator the health profession carries out an intellectual activity. For the purpose of the reaction of the order, in case of damage to the patient, a different treatment of both is justified. I would add, in addition to the things of the structure, that within a structure I cannot refuse a contractual obligation. If it were a contract, I could refuse the service; whereas, as a contractual obligation, I cannot. Therefore, in the propositional part it is stated that "to avoid the re-emergence of a problem arising first of all from misunderstandings of an interpretive nature generated by the engraving of the second period of article 3" (the so-called Balduzzi decree), in the exclusion of light criminal liability the professional, is without prejudice to article 2043 of the civil code. This is an inscription that was very confused in the orientation. In any case, the Commission considers that the text of Article 3 can be improved, as the operator, employee or contract partner, is only responsible for the purposes and effects of Article 2043 of the Civil Code, while the health structure is always in the civil service by virtue of the contractual relationship (Articles 1218 and 1228 of the Civil Code). These are the conclusions of that Commission. This also makes it clear that we should not lead the issue to paradox. I would just like to say that the trust relationship is not a contractual relationship, but is a quality element of performance. Paradoxically in this logic informed consent would become, or could become, an element in which I make a contract with the professional, while it is what makes the medical act lawful, insofar as it is invasive of the integrity of the person and is a constitutional rank forecast (Article 32, paragraph 2). Therefore, the discipline arises from this requirement, from this choice to separate the two profiles of responsibility. Attention: in the text we have several times specified that where the operator, even if he works in a structure, operates on the basis of a contract with the patient, his liability remains contractual. We have held lengthy hearings in the Commission on this matter; the judges of the Milan court and those of Cassazione have come, who for and who against, but this is the area in which the logic of the reform in the field of civil liability moves. I have heard, and I express my thanks from this point of view, to propose other issues that are certainly relevant to the subject: for example, that of the preliminary hearing, raised by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, I think it is a real problem. The problem is that the code of criminal procedure must be changed (it seems to me Article 550 of the Code of criminal procedure), including the charge for injuries among the causes that can initiate the procedure. We have not yet reached that level of elaboration, of comparison also very positive with all the components (magistrates, Ministry of Justice) for this reason; I therefore believe that the recall can find its memory in the text also with possible solutions, perhaps in a subsequent measure that looks at the reform of the code of criminal procedure. There is also the sensitive issue of conciliation. Article 8 introduces something new. I would point out that it is not so much Article 696-a of the Code of Civil Procedure, namely the procedure for prior technical assessment and conciliation that the judge's adviser can do, because it was already in the Code. The novelty is that it becomes a compulsory procedure in cases of liability. I do not think there are any problems in saying that this is okay, because conciliation is the judge's consultant and, if conciliation fails, the acts are immediately usable in court. From this point of view you will not miss the importance of the measure in terms of costs and even speed. Attention, because when we talk about costs and speed we refer to citizens' rights, because access to quick and fair compensation is first and foremost a citizen's interest. The problem arises because our legislation has other instruments in place, then but also recently designed to remove from litigation in the courtroom the conciliation of disputes concerning controversial health matters: I am referring to conciliation and assisted negotiation. In other words, we have produced legislation which, in my opinion, has tried to alleviate the pressure in courtrooms and resolve disputes in out-of-court or - let's say - prejudices. The observation that is made is that how the law abolishes the use of these other instruments could be unjustified or ungenerous, and I believe that some reason in this reasoning is there, remembering above all that the institution of conciliation in fact began to work three years ago, or even less, because the Constitutional Court intervened to correct it. The other problem is that, according to the data we have - but they are young data - conciliation does not produce great results, at least until today. I believe, then, that it can be reasonable to maintain these two procedures in an alternative or competitive regime. The obligation of insurance is a serious problem; it is necessary to deal with Community law which considers obligations for private undertakings, such as insurance, breaches of the free movement of services and competition. So, it's a delicate problem. It is not that it does not exist; the risk is that either this reform will start to give effect or if we think that insurance, which is already not on the market today, can enter as an obligation, will become even more complicated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. WHITE, rapporteur. I believe, then, that we can reason on this too, but we must build the conditions for this to happen. I still thank the House and hope that my reply, if nothing else, will have given satisfaction to the reasons of others, whom they can legitimately maintain. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u71	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u72	Madam President, Senators and Senators, first of all - I must say very frankly - I do not formally thank Senator Bianco for the work he has shown, even in his reply, to be a Carthusian, competent person. I would also like to thank the Commission all and always excellent President De Biasi, who, once again, together demonstrate, for my experience, how serious and fruitful our work can be when it is totally turned back on the merit of the problems. Thank you very much for the emblematicity of this circumstance and this experience on this measure that, together with you, I have been able to live in the long months of discussion. My reply will not be very long; I would just like to make a few comments on a very important debate. In recent years there has been a considerable increase in health litigation. This has led to an increasing use of so-called defensive medicine which, through the many diagnostic and therapeutic performances, even unnecessary or, on the contrary, in many circumstances with the waiver of necessary interventions, but which could appear at high risk, has led to a plurality of negative consequences for the health of the citizens themselves, and certainly an estimated - but not calculated on time - increase in health expenditure. Of course, there are research that is available. There was a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Health Mistakes, the final results of which you certainly knew and commented more than I did. However, this research records alarming data. Both Agenas and some medical organizations, in order to make only very brief references, have carried out investigations on the subject and in some cases have shown that they also reach 10 percent of health benefits that could be considered as defensive medicine: from medicines to visits, from laboratory tests to instrumental examinations, to unnecessary admissions. Of course, beyond the data that must be judged rigorously and carefully - and one of the elements that the bill tries to address is exactly the reconstruction of these data in a more organic way, with an ascending and descending flow, as I will say, of statistics that can be made available to the entire National Health Service - it is clear that this is a huge problem, which needs to be addressed systematically, as the measure before this House very punctually provides. Another particularly worrying aspect is that of the exodus from specializations most exposed to risks. Presumably in the coming years the need to resort to doctors from other countries on specialist branches that are rejected by Italian scholars and doctors for the risk they contain in their professional perspectives could occur. Finally, it must be remembered that many health professionals in the current system fail to obtain adequate insurance coverage on the market for the excessively high costs of policies and for an insurance market in our country that is estimated to be, for 80%, of foreign origin, of dubious origin or coming from even non-European countries, with all the implications of competence and difficulties that can be structured in these insurance alliances with respect to the Italian health system. I have just mentioned a few points in the debate over the past few years. The horizon before the legislator was, therefore, particularly daunting and required a truly complicated job. In the awareness of these issues, in the last three years, in particular, the Ministry has been strongly committed to the issue of occupational health responsibility, knowing that a strong debate was also taking place in Parliament, with so many draft laws that then merged, with the excellent work of Mr Gelli, into the proposal that the House presented. On the subject - I remember - had already intervened decree-law n. 158 of 2012 (decree Balduzzi), widely cited, that had tried to give a first answer to the criticalities deriving from the strict application of the general principles enshrined in the civil code and the penal code in the matter of professional responsibility in the exercise of an activity at high risk as by its nature is the medical one. That decree-law, then converted into law, had also provided that, by decree of the President of the Republic, the minimum and uniform procedures and requirements for the suitability of insurance contracts for health professionals, as well as the establishment of a special fund to ensure adequate insurance coverage for those who could not find it on the market. The complicated process of this measure indicates precisely the difficulty in applying it: it has certainly proved to be a very long process due to the complexity of this matter, which, as Senator Bianco said, in many circumstances must necessarily take account of regulatory implications of European rank; at present the scheme of that regulation is still under consideration by the Legal and Legislative Affairs Department of the Presidency of the Council. However, despite the rather difficult scenario, after having carried out numerous in-depth studies, with files and documents (there is a bibliography and documentation really mastodontic on the subject), also in the context of specific hearings with all the actors of the system, with professionals, with university teachers, with lawyers, it was considered, as a Ministry of Health, in a work combined with the Parliament, that the times were ripe for an organic intervention in the matter. Last year at the Ministry, therefore, a special commission was set up by a decree of the Minister himself - whose work was last mentioned by Senator Bianco - according to me at a high level, chaired by an expert such as Professor Guido Alpa and composed of all the professionalities that have in some way functions, experiences or implications on the subject (jurists, magistrates, lawyers, doctors, risk management experts), in order to draw up a proposal aimed at resolving the many nodes of the problem. The committee worked surprisingly fast and already before the summer of 2015 handed over a report to the Minister, which was subsequently sent to Parliament, before which several draft laws were already pending on the subject. On such a sensitive subject, in which it is necessary, on the one hand, to assure professionals the right serenity in the exercise of their activities and, on the other hand, to guarantee citizens incurred in cases of malpractice the right compensation for the damage suffered, it seemed essential to proceed exactly to this work, even of a cultural type. In fact, the report by Professor Alpa, quoted by Senator Bianco, places the issue in a scientific, legal and bibliographical context of European rank, where the theme of contractual responsibility and non-contractual liability, with legal or even philosophical foundations referred to in that report, gives us the sense of a trajectory on which we have wanted to interact strongly with Parliament. I would like to summarise in three or four other points some of the issues which are in the systematic nature of this measure. The draft law before Parliament tackles the whole question of the responsibilities of health professionals and in general the issues related to this issue. Firstly, with the establishment of the National Health Safety Observatory, linked to regional clinical risk management centres, data will be available over time to study places, times and procedures that most negatively affect adverse events and clinical risk. In short, it prefigures itself with the elaboration of these data, which is not negligible in the measure under consideration, a real national system both on risk management, but also on prevention, which, in our opinion, will essentially produce a great change of system over time. Even the timing, locations, procedures and methods that are most at risk of adverse events may be a huge asset in itself to activate much more effective prevention mechanisms and methods. I do not overlook this part of the rule, which implements this data system in a much more precise way, in the transparency and effectiveness that the measure provides for. On the safety of treatment, it should be pointed out that some provisions on clinical risk management, originally contained in the draft law, have already been incorporated into the law of stability in force, paragraph 538. In particular, in accordance with the latter provisions, the regions will have to provide that all public and private structures providing health care provide an adequate monitoring, prevention and management function of health risk, therefore on a company scale, on a hospital scale, on a regional and national scale. In this substantial pyramid is - in my opinion - one of the very effective architectures that the health system will be able to achieve in the coming years. As you can see, the scope of the measure has objectives of overall reorganization. On the same issue, cited several times, of civil and criminal liability, in the difference based on contractual and non-contractual liability, provisions on civil and criminal liability of health professionals are laid down in those parts of the measure. In view of the different legal relationship between the patient and the doctor, depending on whether the patient acts as a freelancer or as an employee of a structure, double-track liability is envisaged. I would point out that there will be a reduction in the limitation periods for action from ten to five years and that there is a fundamental requirement in the proceedings, which is precisely the reversal of the burden of proof in the judgment. There is also a great novelty: an autonomous case of crime for injury and manslaughter for health professionals who would therefore respond criminally only for serious and malicious fault. Further limits to liability are also provided for by serious negligence, where the professional has complied with the recommendations provided for in the guidelines, on which issue he has drawn up a very punctual card, last but not least, Senator Bianco. The guidelines are a fundamental discrimen of responsibility. The system that you intend to implement with this law on the part relating to the guidelines is in our opinion very effective. It provides, first of all, an investigation and an important filter on who writes them, on which are the authorized subjects and on how are implemented the systems that, within the National Service, in a technical-scientific action, that can only be a work in progress - as are known the guidelines - will have to be in a position to update effectively and with great transparency. There is also an obligation to cover health care facilities. This obligation is introduced for all structures, both public and private. It is introduced the action of revals from the companies towards own employees. Again, there are very clear rules. Again, there is the guarantee fund for damages arising from health responsibility. A regulation is required to set up a guarantee fund for cases of malpractice to compensate victims if they cannot be insured. With regard to the mandatory attempt to reconcile, the obligation is introduced to undertake before civil judgements a mandatory attempt to reconcile, with observations on mediation, which the Government shares, pointed out in the debate not only by Senator Bianco but also by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. There will be a more transparent compilation of lists of technical consultants and experts. Technical advice in civil and criminal proceedings is expected to be entrusted not only to the medical examiner, but also to a specialist in the subject matter of litigation. In short, they are eighteen articles that impose - in our opinion - in a structured manner all aspects, not giving up obviously and priority to consolidate the new rights for patients/users, who will have more seats and better procedures to defend themselves (from the Ombudsman, to extrajudicial proceedings, to courts) with direct actions, facilitated by the new legislation - I do not overlook this decisive part of the measure - and also a safer framework for health professionals, who will be able to carry out their work with more tranquility and, therefore, with more effectiveness and sustainability in the Italian health system. A clearer picture of the insurance obligations we believe will make the related costs more sustainable over time. The Italian health system really needs this measure and the climate in this House is very encouraging and very high. That is why I express with great conviction the great satisfaction of the Government. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u73	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u74	Madam President, I would like to make a few amendments, although of course it is much more effective to explain them when the House is in a proper position. I do this because, after the words of the rapporteur and especially after those of the Government, I do not want to break the spell, in the sense that it seems right, even in this House, to give a sign of cooperation. However, Madam President, you are well aware that this is a risk of vulnerating the value and meaning of the explanation of the amendment, which allows the vote, which will then have to be expressed, to be conscious, autonomous, free informed and responsible. I am afraid that, for obvious reasons, we are continuing a kind of general discussion, which may be more or less interesting, but certainly the explanation of the amendments is something more and different from it. However, the spirit of cooperation leads me to explain the two amendments I have tabled to Article 1. They refer, in fact, to a fundamental article which reads: "Security of health care" () I believe that the term'security' is the cornerstone of this measure. In fact, the many purposes of the bill have been punctually illustrated, with reference to the pacification of the relationship between health worker and user and between doctor and patient, but the polar star of this measure, on which we have built a reasoning and we have also tried to feed our debate in a correct and profitable way, focuses precisely on the paths of safety of care. I believe that the principle of safety of care is effectively achieved through a sort of virtuosity of the circulation of information. In Article 1 we foresee, in fact, the establishment of an obligation, that of the information and transmission of data on the risks and adverse events to the region of belonging. For the truth, the aspects inherent in the whole of all activities aimed at preventing and managing the risk related to health services, and therefore, to the appropriate use of structural and organizational resources, deserve to know a precise method and that does not leave room for misunderstandings, so that the will of the legislator is not betrayed, when this measure is to be adopted downstream. I therefore ask, with Amendment No 1,201, but also and above all with Amendment No 1,202, that there be consistency between the provisions of Article 1 and that of Article 2 in relation to the circularity of information. Colleagues, Article 2 expressly provides that the Centre for the Management of Health Risk and Patient Safety is to be established in each Region. The task of this Centre is to collect regional risk data and transmit them to the National Observatory for Good Health Safety Practices, referred to in Article 3. Then, later, Article 3 details more precisely what is the task of the National Observatory and what are the purposes for which it receives and uses this data. It is expressly provided, in paragraph 2 of Article 3, that the Observatory uses the information and data for risk prevention and management, taking appropriate measures, aimed at good governance of health, through the capitalization of this information. What, then, is the point that - in my humble opinion - must be filled? There is talk of regions and national observatory, but it is necessary to specify who provides such data to the regions. They must reach the Regional Centre for the Management of Health Risk by public and private health and socio-health facilities. If we introduce this clarification, as I request through Amendment 1,202, I believe that we would have closed the circle and ensured clarity in relation to the obligation to transmit, to receive, as well as, of course, the use of information, which is extraordinarily important. As we know, good health is also done through a good reading, before, and a good use, after, of the data that refer to the status in which health care is provided, with the identification of the critical points: it is the principle of prevention not only of the disease, but also of the inappropriateness and the malpractices, which are generally reason for distortion of a system that, with great effort, but also with great commitment, we are trying to push in an area of greater clarity. In this respect - I do not want to go too far, Madam President, but I do so only in order to save the intervention during the presentation of the amendments to Article 2 - there is also amendment 2.203 which, as it were, is linked to Article 1 and is its natural, obvious and rational completion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, I remind you that we are in the process of illustrating the amendments to Article 1. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Madam President, I will speak later on to explain this amendment, of which, logically, I have anticipated the ratio. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u75	The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u78	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking only to draw attention to two fundamental points. In our country, medical and health care activities have had the opportunity to explain themselves in the freedom and the possibility to deepen the good practices that medical science has made them applied, and not only from the point of view of health care, but also to ensure that the care, care and intervention operators reach levels such as to be envied in the world. This happened on the basis of protocols and parameters that, however, very often - as we all know - in the oncology field were completely different - for example - from those of the hospital in Villejuif, in Paris, and even today, in Italy, they are different from Region to Region. And I think we need to take this into account, not for defensive medicine. I asked to intervene because I've heard of defensive medicine. The guidelines were introduced by the Balduzzi decree, which created a huge problem in the relationship between doctor and patient in terms of civil and criminal liability of the doctor. For trial times, we can't reduce the doctor to passing his life from one courtroom to another. Even for the magistrates we have always argued that they perform a function of the State - I find very similar the function of the doctor to that of the magistrate - and we have said that there can be no responsibility except for serious fault and malice and that in those cases the State responds and, only in return, the magistrate. Pretty much in some parts you tried to reconstruct this scheme. However, Article 6 does not convince me, even though I have worked on it in the Justice Commission. We are talking about an event that occurs due to imperishment and then we say that guilt is excluded if the guidelines have been complied with. If the impriety is determined by the guidelines, then the guidelines do not serve. I would like to address the rapporteur and the Government, since the deadline for tabling amendments has expired, because we must take account of the fact that criminality is excluded in any case, without talking about malpractice. If there is compliance with the guidelines by the doctor and, alternatively, but not because there are no guidelines, if a technical check tells me that on that occasion good practices have led to a positive result even beyond the guidelines or not provided for by the guidelines, in that case the punishableness is excluded. Then, there is no need to talk about impriety or recommendations provided by the guidelines adapted to the specificity of the specific case. It must be said that criminality is excluded at the time of compliance with the guidelines or if, with a technical finding, the court finds that good practices have led to a positive result for the sick person. That's my theory. If we really want to create a space for further reflection, I would ask the Government and the rapporteur, having not tabled amendments, to arrive at a solution, similar to that envisaged for the civil liability of the magistrates, which guarantees the doctor the utmost tranquility when he has to intervene and not to be conditioned in his work by the thought of compliance with the guidelines and by the fear of throwing away a few millimetres. I am interested that the doctor continues, when necessary, to go beyond the guidelines if this involves the salvation of the sick.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u79	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u82	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, I also renew today the invitation to all Members, and not only to the Tuscan Members, to take the cooperative 'Il Forteto' to heart. Today the members of the commission of inquiry of the Tuscany Region have asked us expressly to take charge of the work that they have carried out, but partially, because the Commission of regional investigation does not have all the powers of a committee of parliamentary inquiry. Today they have come to the Senate, after having carried out for two suggestions two commission of investigation and after listening to the various victims of the cooperative, to ask us to set up a committee of parliamentary inquiry and to push the government to a commission of the cooperative itself. I'm really asking you with my heart in my hand. We have lived this story in Tuscany. There are victims who still have difficulty sleeping today; there are victims who have not endured what they have suffered and have taken their lives. We, as Italian parliamentarians, have a duty to put the word 'fine' as a political part of this affair. The judiciary has done its job, but we have to take responsibility for that "Forteto system" that didn't work. And, therefore, I ask all of you to subscribe and not to hinder the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry, whose request has been made here in the Senate or in the House. We ask with our hearts not only me, but all the victims of the cooperative "Il Forteto". [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Giovanardi and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u85	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, for coffee! Today, my colleague Stefano Lucidi and I have talked a lot about it and thought about it right in front of a coffee. For a coffee we are selling democracy or, however, a good part of democracy that our constituent Fathers have given us. This is the cost that would supposedly be saved on benefits that would no longer be paid to senators. But it's a coffee. For a coffee we sell parts of popular sovereignty. The party system over the years understood that, leaving the citizen the chance to vote, he was losing consent. Then he began to create blocked lists; then, when, in the last legislature, he even understood that the blocked lists were no longer enough for him, he decided to make himself his own House, the Senate; all his own, the Upper House; all his own, because the citizens will never vote the Senate of the Republic again. This is a reduction in the popular prerogatives set out in the second paragraph of Article 1 of our Constitutional Charter. Yes, Madam President, because sovereignty belongs to the people who exercise it also within the limits of the Constitution. And the Constitution they want to propose has limits, and the limit is never to vote on the Senate again. I believe, Madam President, that for a coffee it is not possible to sell the democracy that our constituent Fathers gave us, and they also gave it to us with blood. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u86	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-725.ana.u87	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 17 November, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.55 p.m.
