ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 12 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would ask, in agreement with Mr Crosio, for the vote on the Minutes, after checking the quorum. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u8	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 1959. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Buccarella has the floor to illustrate the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u9	Madam President, we are here to explain the request for urgent procedure under Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, which - I remember only for those who do not remember it - if the House were to vote in favour of it, would mean that the time limits for the legislative process of the draft law that I am now going to present are halved. The premise is that we are not voting on a measure here, but we are taking the decision, which is also political, of course, to speed up the legislative process for its approval. As the title indicates, it provides for a measure that - according to many and not only of the 5 Star Movement Group - is extremely necessary to counter the corruptive phenomenon in Italy. Let us remember that in 2015 the so-called anti-corruption law was passed, which my Group did not vote because, even after an online consultation, they had noticed many flaws in it. There was no provision for the extension of the so-called DASPO for the corrupt, i.e. the provision of perpetual bans from public offices and of inability to contract for corrupt or corrupt enterprises. This point was discussed last week, with a similar request for urgent procedure by Mr Cappelletti. Today we have another opportunity, which I hope this time this House will not let go. This is the prediction of an investigative figure, a preventive means to beat corruption, which is the use of the undercover agent or infiltrated agent for crimes against the public administration. Let us start by saying that it is not a new figure that we would like to establish, but that it has been present for ten years in our legal system, with Law No 146 of 2006, and that we would like to integrate by providing for the use of judicial police officers in the preliminary investigations already initiated, under the direction of a prosecutor, to be infiltrated to ensure that, they can be involved in corruptive phenomena already taking part in their commission, but not causing - attention - the crime. And I say this in order to prevent probable interventions against our proposal, which will happen to mine. This is a bit of what happened last week, with the intervention of representatives of other political groups, confusing the reasoning plan and making absolutely out of place references, perhaps by virtue of a non-respectable but furry guarantee, which wants to confuse the waters and direct the vote not on elements of fact. This isn't about the provocateur agent. We do not want to insert a figure who instigates the crime by promising or giving bribes to this or to that public officer. So, please, any subsequent interventions do without criticizing our proposal by referring to this figure, which also exists in other legal systems but which we are not talking about here. We are talking not about the provocative agent, but about the undercover agent, which has existed - I repeat - for ten years already, for crimes of drug trafficking, paedophilia. Do you know how many postal police officers, without entering child pornography, but simply entering into the stream, especially telematics, of the Internet act and, fortunately, constantly discover crimes committed with regard to this hateful type of crime? We do not understand why this investigative figure cannot be used for what - in our view - is one of the main emergencies of our country: I am referring to corruption, which is a moral, economic and political emergency. The measures adopted by Parliament last year have had a positive impact on some aspects, but they did not have the merit of introducing the figure of the undercover agent. I remember that just over a year ago - on 26 March 2015 - Law No 69 (so-called anti-corruption law) was voted in this branch of Parliament, which also provided for the crime of fake in the budget. And I recall that it was necessary to wait for the joint Chambers of the Court of Cassation to be delivered to fill a vulnus, but this is another speech. That same day, the Government accepted an agenda at my first signature and signed by other colleagues in my Group, as well as by a senator from another political group, which recommended the Executive to evaluate the extension of the forecasts referred to in Article 9 of the Act of 16 March 2006, No. 146 (related to the undercover agent) to the investigations for the most serious crimes and, specifically, those referred to in Articles 314, 317, 319 and 319-b of the Criminal Code. If approved, this measure would also have the great merit of reducing the emergency that, even in the political debate, is exploding in recent weeks, relating to the prescription especially for crimes against the public administration. We know very well that, under existing legislation, the problem of the limitation of corruption offences is that, on the basis of the experience which emerges the corruptive phenomena often from the facts, it is difficult for the judicial authority, in the result of judgments, to arrive at sentences of conviction or acquittal because the prescription intervenes first. Let me give you an example. Article 318 of the Criminal Code provides for a maximum sentence of six years for the offence of corruption and the maximum requirement is seven and a half years. As a result, due to a corrupting fact that is taking place now and will perhaps be discovered in four or five years' time, the time window to be able to incardinate the investigations, close them and start a process will be a few years. It is very difficult therefore to arrive at an absolute judgment or sentence in the residual time limit compared to the seven and a half years. Certainly the undercover agent's instrument would facilitate the emergence of the corruptive phenomenon. By virtue of the intrinsic conflict of interest between corrupt and corruptor, many corruptive facts come to the attention of the judicial authority casually, thanks to telephone interceptions related to other procedures or for other randomities that see emerge the corruptive phenomenon at a long time. I repeat that undercover agents would be sent around, by the Commissioner or by the commander of the station, not to commit or instigate the commission of corruptive facts, but to an investigation already initiated, that is, against a corrupting phenomenon on which there are indications and for which they are already being investigated. This is - no more, no less - about what is already happening with drugs, weapons and child pornography. Therefore, any excuse to criticize the figure of the undercover agent, by virtue of principles that in themselves would be very respectable - already I say now - would be absolutely out of place, because it is a figure that we have already ten years in Italy and that it would finally be time to apply also to the fight against the crimes I am talking about. It is useless to recall the opinion of many magistrates and operators of the front line who, on various occasions, have expressed their favor for the introduction of this figure, starting from the president of the National Anti-corruption Authority, up to the current president of the National Association of magistrates, to the prosecutor of Rome and many others. We do not necessarily want to be strong in opinions which, although authoritative, are always opinions and therefore questionable. Instead, we want to set the subject on objective criteria, asking ourselves whether today the Senate does not consider it appropriate to speed up the legislative process in order to ensure that the undercover agent for corruption offences is finally introduced in Italy. We are convinced that most of our citizens, regardless of how they vote, are of our own opinion and we also hope for yours. We hope, therefore, that the House will vote in favour. Then, when we turn to the merits, we will see whether, with respect to the bill, which is available - perhaps the best-willed colleagues have already had the opportunity to take a look - and quite simple enough, Members will want to take this opportunity so that in the television salons or in the parliamentary classrooms we will not be forced to say once again that you are the ones of the no, those who reject the proposals, that you are - or are - always the political class that says no to the measures necessary for the country, from the income of citizenship to these anti-corruption measures. This is another wonderful opportunity to show that party politics is not renunciation and no and to finally find us together on something in common that we cannot but share. That is why I am calling for the vote in favour of this House and we hope, together with all the Italians, that this measure will be adopted and that its process will be speeded up. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u12	IN MAY (CoR). Madam President, the subject is very fascinating, but I would make a distinction between merit and urgency. It goes without saying that we are in a very delicate situation, in which we are experiencing the difficulty if the emergency measure, as I hope this House wants to vote, is then the procedure necessary to be able to discuss the substance. I find it very annoying to take belly initiatives, always on the emotional wave. I believe, however, that the request that the 5 Star Movement makes on the need to create a priority way to start discussing the subject can be frankly received by the Assembly, also because all things considered, it gives satisfaction to all those edicts that we feel from many quarters regarding the interest that Parliament should have for the corruptive facts in our country. I therefore believe that our Group will also vote in favour of the request for the draft law to be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u15	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I would like to express my absolute opposition to the request for urgency of the draft law in question. In my opinion, it should be urgently trash and I am prepared to challenge Senator Buccarella in any public debate and explain the reasons why I am saying this. First of all, as I said the other day, we must agree on the diagnosis: according to the data provided by the associations that fight such phenomena, there are about 9 million Italians who every year feel they ask for a bribe - go and see the percentages on the sites - and this means that, on the other hand, there are 9 million requests for bribes. If you make the accounts of the public officers in Italy, there would be three or four requests for bribes that every official would make to the citizens. In the same year, however, 212 complaints for these crimes were lodged in all Italian prosecutors. If 9 million are the demands of bribes and 212 complaints, perhaps the phenomenon must be deepened also from the cultural and educational point of view, on the front of a public opinion that feeds on surveys and not an examination of the phenomenon, which is to be combated and repress from the criminal point of view, without reaching solutions like those indicated. My colleague says it's not about the provocative agent. For God's sake! This is about undercover personnel. Since I am used to reading the proposed rules, I read to the House and to the citizens who listen to us from outside the rule that says: However, it is not punishable, ladies and gentlemen, to be careful, because when it happens to you to stumble into rules of this kind, it will be late to ask yourself what is going on and what kind of rules we have voted in Parliament - the judicial police officer who, by simulating to agree with others to commit a crime or participate materially in his committee, operates, in the context of investigations and by delegation of the prosecutor, in order to acquire evidence in relation to the crimes referred to in articles of the Rules of Procedure, which are all those relating to public administration. And then he goes on: The cause of non-perpetuality - attention - referred to in this paragraph shall also apply to auxiliaries and persons employed by the officials themselves. Who knows a bit about the history of Italy - I bring only two striking examples, which also interested our parliamentary colleagues, who had previously been magistrates - will remember the facts of Genoa: precisely for the undercover drug there was an infinite trial, in which those undercover said that all the acts of preparation for the crime or material participation in his commission were determined by the fact that he himself, undercover, intended to dismantle the gang of drug traffickers. On the other hand, the magistrates replied that this was absolutely not true and that the subject pretended to be undercover, but actually carried on those crimes because it gained a personal benefit, if only to make a career. We all know the issue of General Mori: after trials, trials and processes of acquittal, there are still those who suggest that General Mori, in his investigations against the Mafia, has operated in a certain way not to fight the Mafia, but, vice versa, for collusive purposes deriving from the relationship with political power. Imagine if in any Italian public office there were people not who, rightly, perhaps pretending to be employees of the register, engineers of public works or in any situation in which the civil servants or public officials are moving, come to know of crimes that they then rightly denounce - it is a case- but that - it is certainly the role of the provocative agent - they simulate to agree with others to commit a crime or participate materially in his commission, therefore being accomplices of the crime. At a time when investigations, complaints and arrests were to take place, it is clear that each one - both of them - will defend himself against the accusation of not having denounced others who proposed certain things to him, saying that he wanted them to move forward to frame them in the material commission of the crime, because he wanted to discover them and not the other way around. I confirm, then, my firm adherence to the liberal democratic principles of a rule of law, other than Soviet, Nazi and totalitarian law, i.e. those which introduced toxins into the legal system, so that, with great contempt for the guarantees of people, in order to achieve an objective, they trampled on the fundamental principles of a democratic state. A mechanism of this kind, far from solving the problems of corruption, would introduce other toxins into the body of the order, creating an immense dust, within which guilty, innocent, people induced or who simulate to agree to commit a crime, even if they do not commit it, or who participate materially in its commission, they certainly create, at the level of the trial, a juniper: they will never end, with reciprocal replicas between provocative agents, because this is what it is about. At the beginning, Article 1 states: "In the context of investigations and by delegation of the public There would be no doubt that it was not in the context of an investigation and at the proxy of the prosecutor, namely that the undercover provocative agent thought on his own to carry out this activity without anyone asking him, namely that every police officer and every policeman thought of himself infiltrating people within the public offices of the municipalities with the task of simulating or committing crimes and then framing those who carry them out. Of course, there must be at least one prosecutor directing the matter. But the prosecutor who makes such a decision does not then create the conditions for finding out who did it, nor for denouncing it, and I would agree with that. I repeat: the fact that people who are members of the offices can report a fact is okay with me, and I will also say that in every television broadcast. One thing is to be within a certain reality and to get to know about current situations of evil or a project of crime against the public administration. Another thing is to simulate agreeing with others to commit a crime, which means to participate materially in the crime itself and therefore not to want to avoid it but to commit it. You do not avoid what is happening but, while playing to the end, you commit the crime together with the other person and you report it only after it has been committed. This is the provocative agent, that's all. These are the reasons why I shall vote against this draft law's statement of urgency because, in my opinion, there is no urgency. The only urgency is that of a more calm and serious reflection on corruptive phenomena.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u16	I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law No 1959, made by Senator Buccarella. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u17	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1458, already approved by the House of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Realacci Members and others; Brats and others; De Rosa and others. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u18	Madam President, I would like to thank the senators and senators for their contribution to the general debate. The problem was clear: the agency system started with a strong reformist influence and then generated, in its application, a unevenness in the territory, both in the prevention and control actions and in the authorization processes. This has been the case for a number of well-known reasons, but also and above all for the obvious differences in dedicated appropriations both in financial resources and in staff. The photograph that we have portrayed today is a country that works with different systems and speeds and it is also evident the relationship between the lower investments in the environmental protection system and the presence of serious and devastating problems for the health of the environment and people. More examples have emerged: I remember among all the Ilva of Taranto and the land of fires. What we are proposing today with this measure is a step towards greater equity and consistency in prevention and control actions, with the aim of aligning ourselves with the highest bar on the point of quality of behaviour, practices and results. It is an objective - we know, we have to be concrete and real - that has difficulty living with the invariance of expenditure that we have had to insert. As we have said, the differences are generated not only by less investment, but above all by less investment. We can say, however, that we have all developed this awareness together and that we are ready and committed to the next steps. The issue of research, which the Agency-ISPRA system carries out in a complementary and coordinated way, is also linked to the funding issue. Of course, the more we can guarantee the financial autonomy of the system, the more we will have the guarantee of protecting both research and ISPRA from the risk of a conflict of interest. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u19	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the proposal for a law before this House is intended to strengthen the performance of environmental protection activities, which are now fragmented into a plurality of actors, with a view to synergy between them and to making more effective use of the human, financial and instrumental resources available. This bill is based on an incisive activity of change and innovation in the environmental field, which has been initiated for some time by the Government and Parliament. It is an important piece, which is added to a regulatory mosaic that is gradually taking shape after the approval of Law No. 68 of 2015 (so-called eco-reactors) and the introduction of important legislative novelties provided for by Law No. 221 of 2015 (so-called environmental related). In this context, the draft law in question aims to harmonise and standardise the activities of knowledge and control in the field of environmental protection, which are currently attributed to different subjects. This desire to strengthen the moments of technical coordination and unitary governance, while taking into account the areas of competence of the State and territorial autonomy, emerges clearly from the examination of specific provisions contained in the legislative proposal. There are two points I would like to highlight. Essential levels of environmental technical performance (LEPTA) are introduced, which will have to act as parameters of the performance of the Agencies, and a three-year programme of the activities of the National System, which will be able to give the same greater organicity, encouraging their planning in a medium-term perspective. Allow me to extend my sincere thanks, as well as to the senators of the Environment Commission, to ISPRA, the people of its President and Director, the individual ARPAs and their directors, for the constructive and constructive contribution they have made to this measure. I do not hesitate to respond to the criticisms that have been made in this House. One could do better, it was said, and this always. But we have chosen to complete a measure on the system of environmental agencies and we believe it is essential to constitute the instrument in order to ensure, throughout the national territory, the uniformity and adequacy of the standards of environmental protection. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u21	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u24	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, we call on the Government to report to the House, as a matter of urgency, on the events that took place last night in Sicily. It is only because of the great professionalism of the Forces of Order, colleagues, that we are not here today to comment on yet another mafia massacre. At 2 o'clock this morning, the armored car of the president of the Nebrodi Park and his escort were blocked and made subject to gunshots, heavy weapons. The attackers also had incendiary instruments, with which they tried to set fire to the armored car. Only the prompt reaction of the Forces of Order prevented a mob massacre. We believe that this is a fact of an absolute gravity, which testifies to the attempt to raise the head by the Tortorian mafia, which in those territories is still strong. We call for the government to come and report as soon as possible. And this request is made on behalf of the entire 5 Star Movement Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u25	I inform all my colleagues, for those who do not know, that today, at 3 p.m., the Conference of Leaders is convened. I think it is important that this request is made by the Parent Company.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u26	We now come to the examination of the articles of the draft law, in the text proposed by the Commission. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u27	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment 1.2, which aims to change the name from the national network system for environmental protection to the federal network system of environmental agencies. We believe that the concept of a federal system should be defended, since the draft law does not take it up in a structural way, even if it is contained in the same regulation of the ISPRA, which provides for the work of a federal council. The draft law before us even deletes this concept, while we believe that federalism, even in the context of environmental controls and monitoring, is a strong point in relation to a centralization of the system. I would also like to explain the agenda G1.102, with which we ask the Government to ensure that, in the supervisory functions carried out by the Ministry of the Environment, a level of autonomy is ensured in the functions carried out by the Regional Agencies, which constitute the network systems, as coordinated and harmonised by ISPRA. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u28	Madam President, I would like to explain the agenda G1101, because most of the articles contained in this draft law refer to successive implementing decrees. In fact, this discipline is not immediately enforceable, but it will have to wait for the adoption of successive implementing decrees in order to be effective. Given that, unfortunately, it is a well-established practice, in many cases, that tight deadlines are lacking, with this agenda we ask that the Government undertake to do so as quickly as possible and provide for possible sanctions for officials and public administration entities who do not comply with the time required to implement these decrees. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u29	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u30	I call for the withdrawal of all the amendments tabled in Article 1, otherwise the opinion is against it. On the agenda, Mr G1,100, the opinion was in favour, subject to rewording, which would explain the representative of the Government. On the agenda, the opinion was opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u31	Madam President, I am available to accept the agenda G1.100 with the following rewording of the system: • to consider the possibility of preparing the establishment of a special section of the Single Justice Fund for the environment, for a mandatory purpose, in favour of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, in accordance with the balance of public finances, in which they flow: the proceeds of goods subject to criminal or administrative seizure, confiscation, fines, fines and penalties and penalties of an environmental nature, with particular reference to payments made, pursuant to Article 318 ‐quater, paragraph 2, as well as Article 318‐f, paragraph 3, of Legislative Decree of 3 April 2006, n. 152. I agree with the rapporteur on the remaining amendments and agendas. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask Senator Nugnes if he accepts the rewording of the agenda G1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u32	Madam President, I agree with the rewording of the agenda G1,100, but I would also like to point out the need to refer to the sixth-bis part of the single environmental text introduced by Law No 68 of 2015, because we have been shown by several parties that the target fund is not specified in the law. So, even if we are talking about an agenda and not an amendment, this fund - alas - could also be the right specific for the payment of administrative penalties that refer, precisely, to the requirements of Part Six. I accept the rewording, but I also want to reiterate the weakness of the agendas, because I believe that the Single Environmental Fund's agendas at my first signature have already been accepted by the Government, but this has not resulted in an effective rule establishing this fund. Since the situation is absolutely urgent, I repeat that we accept today the rewording of this additional agenda, but we can no longer postpone the establishment of a single environmental fund. Among other things, I would like to stress that this fund, which is part of the Single Justice Fund, for all parties concerned with administrative sanctions, seizures and confiscations of environmental sections does not affect the financial balance and therefore there is financial variance. In my opinion, therefore, the amendment could also pass, given that, in any case, thanks to the rapporteur's amendment to the Commission, dictated by the State Accounting Office, this measure will have to return to the House. So we accept the rewording of the agenda G1,100, albeit with reservation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u33	The important thing is that he said yes to rewording, because in procedural terms it must be clear. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.4 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.51, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.52.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u36	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to begin by signing this amendment, which seems very simple because it replaces the words'sustainable development' in paragraph 2 of Article 1 with the words 'ecological sustainability'. Today the expression "sustainable development" is abused, even used in dialectic by oil advocates [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , so it would be appropriate to be clear if we really wanted to do something about our ecosystem. It would therefore be appropriate to state clearly that the description must be correct and from this point of view the words "ecological sustainability" are punctual and there are no interpretations that can be used as the back of the "piercers" of our territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u37	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.52, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u40	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would ask you to check the correspondence between the ballots and the senators actually present.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u41	I invite the secretary senators to remove the ballots from the senators' posts that are not present. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.53, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u44	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to say straight away that I intend to endorse all the amendments tabled by my Group. Amendment 1.6 is fundamental, and I am addressing the people of the left in particular; but what is the left? It's all a bunch of people now. In any case, I address the people on the left, because I remember very well that there was a truly exceptional study that determined what was meant by common goods. I also remember that the Democratic Party election campaign was called "common goods." In this case we are giving the PD the opportunity to rethink at least those sections of the population who may have understood that by now the Democratic Party has destroyed the Italian left. In this case, if you want to respect what you said in the election campaign, that you really want to defend the common goods, we are giving you an assist. You can, you know, rise again. What we are saying is that this national system contributes to the pursuit of the objectives of sustainable development, the reduction of soil consumption, the safeguarding and promotion of the quality of the environment and the protection of natural resources and - as we propose to add with this amendment - inalienable common goods, such as water, air and soil. Let's add this description. So, I ask the Democratic Party to respect the pact with the voters, which is what you said in the election campaign. President. - We shall now see it from the vote. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u45	I just want to make a clarification for correct language: then it was called "common good" and not "common goods." I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Nugnes, do you insist on voting on the agenda G1,100 (text 2)? NUGNES (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.101, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.102, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u46	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment No 2.13 which seeks to introduce, in Article 2, the synthetic territorial index as a numerical parameter calculated on the basis of the environmental characteristics of the various territorial realities and which wants to assign a weight to each region according to the qualitative and quantitative consistency of the environmental problems present. With all respect for the Aosta and Molise Valley Regions, there are many other environmental pressures of larger Regions, starting from the Lombardy Region. We therefore believe that it is essential to include a principle of territorial representativeness, and I would like to stress this, which is also recognised at the constitutional level. In essence, with this synthetic territorial index we have the presumption that we want to put a weight vote in the Council - which we continue to call 'federal' - and proportional to the same synthetic territorial index. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u47	Madam President, we have accepted the rewording of the agenda on the Single Environmental Fund, but here we have the opportunity to vote on Amendment 2.12, for which I call for a split vote. The first part, that which comes to paragraph 2, does not provide financial variance. So, with regard to the demands that come from the State Accounting Office, it's consistent. I repeat, as I have done before (but I would like to repeat this), that this is an opportunity to follow up on what, however, is a desire already expressed by the Government: to set up this single environmental fund which is awaited and urged by many parties. This Single Fund is born within the framework of the Single Justice Fund, and is clearly at its destination. It shall be obtained from all proceeds from movable and immovable property subject to criminal or administrative seizure, fines, civil and criminal sanctions of an environmental nature, as well as from sums not withdrawn five years after the definition of civil proceedings and bankruptcy proceedings. In the same amendment it is also proposed to add an article 15-a which, in paragraph 2, specifies the purpose of this Fund: the prevention and combating of harmful conduct of the environment (and we know how necessary and urgent this is), as well as the reclamation and recovery of polluted sites. Therefore, I repeat the need here to immediately follow up the Government's will, also because, with the vote and the inclusion of Article 17 in the Commission, this measure - alas - will still return to the House, and if it were to return with this other amendment within it, it would be good and fair.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u48	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u49	On all the amendments tabled to Article 2, I call for a withdrawal or an opinion against it. On the G2100 agenda, the opinion was in favour, given the acceptance of the reformulation that will now be presented by the Government. The opinion was opposed to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u50	I am in agreement with the rapporteur. The rewording of order G2.100 concerns the device and is as follows: It commits the Government to assess the opportunity to intervene to ensure adequate coordination between the National System, local health companies and specialty police forces, in order to achieve the maximum usability of environmental information.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u51	I would ask Senator Lucidi if he accepts the proposed reformulation of the agenda G2.100. LUCIDES (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. LUCIDES (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators, up to the words 'that characterize'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.5 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.9, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Nugnes, please listen to me carefully. On Amendment 2.12 as a whole, the Budget Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. The amendment cannot be voted on separately, because the Budget Commission has not made differentiated statements on specific parts. Are you going to insist on the vote anyway? NUGNES (M5S). Can the amendment be put aside and the opinion of the Budget Commission be sought? PRESIDENT. - The debate is No, we have received confirmation from the Budget Commission that the opinion has been expressed on the whole of the provision. NUGNES (M5S). However, by voting on the separate amendment, the opinion may change. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, that's what we checked out. I'm sorry, that's the rule. NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, we are still asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.12, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.13, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Lucidi, the agenda for the G2100 was adopted in the reworded text. Are you going to ask for the vote anyway? LUCIDES (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.100 (text 2), presented by Senators Lucidi and Serra. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.101, presented by Senators Lucidi and Serra. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u52	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment 3.4. Among the various functions assigned to the National Networking System, we believe that the assessment of the necessary rebalancing actions is lacking. We know that the national system currently suffers from serious territorial imbalances and, therefore, the objective is to homogenise and rebalance. However, it is also important that the observation of the facts leads to the evaluation of the necessary rebalancing actions and that, therefore, the function is specifically included in the article under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u53	Madam President, I rise to present an amendment and an agenda. Article 3 assigns to the National System the monitoring activities of the effects on the environment resulting from the construction of infrastructure works of national and local interest. Please note that the monitoring action of a large work is normally carried out by its creator (this is a prescription included in the environmental compatibility pronunciation). The amendment therefore complements the monitoring activity with the verification of its correct implementation. The National System of ISPRA and the Environmental Protection Agencies must ensure that the private sector correctly carries out the monitoring action. For this reason, Amendment 3.17 is very important. As far as the agendas presented in Rule 3 are concerned, I should like to set out the agenda for G3.102. Paragraph 1 of Article 3 provides for the collaboration of the National System with the educational and university institutions for the preparation and implementation of programmes of dissemination and environmental education, as well as training and updating of staff of administrations and public bodies; this is a topic very dear to my parent Centinario, who is in 7th Commission. With this agenda we ask that the Government, within the framework of the implementing measures of this bill, take steps to ensure that the individual regional agencies are given the possibility to disseminate also autonomous programmes of education and training in environmental matters. It is therefore another element of autonomy of the Agencies compared to an excessively centralistic hypothesis. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u54	Madam President, first of all I would like to explain Amendment No 3,71 which, like the amendment tabled by other Members, to paragraph 1 (c), last sentence, proposes the deletion of the words: 'and binding'. We are within the scope of Article 3 on the functions of the National System; in point (c) we are talking about research activities aimed at carrying out the tasks and functions referred to in this Article; this letter concludes that: The cognitive elements referred to in this letter are official references to - so far we are - binding on the activities of public administrations. I would suggest to the majority and to the House that we proceed with caution with regard to the use of an adjective of this kind, because reality presents situations not imagined in this text and, moreover, is without criteria of judgment based on binding elements. I therefore believe that the reality must be more respected, removing a further constraint represented by this adjective. Moreover, the subject will be repeated in other articles. I would also like to briefly explain Amendment 3,211, which suggests that the definition of standard performance costs should also be included in the national system's tasks and functions. It is a problem that really concerns the activity that the Agency system will carry out, in particular with regard to private individuals, but not only (for example with regard to municipalities and public administration); it is therefore essential to carefully define costs that are homogeneous throughout the national territory and that respect the most virtuous realities. Finally, Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 3.26.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u55	Madam President, I would like to explain two of the three agendas before the signing of my colleague, Mr Crimes, concerning the area of Brescia, which is highly polluted. I believe that the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea should be well aware of the seriousness of the pollution affecting this territory. With the agenda G3.107, precisely in order to prevent the construction of waste plants in areas where there is already a significant concentration of this type of installation, therefore with a significant negative impact on the surrounding environment, it is considered necessary and important to define an environmental pressure index. The current legislation, referred to in this agenda, explicitly gives the State the exclusive power to identify the general criteria and characteristics of the areas not suitable for the location of these disposal plants. With the agenda in question, we therefore ask the Government to take every necessary initiative, including through regulatory acts, to issue a criterion that allows to introduce a limit of location of landfills and emissive sources in water, soil and air linked in particular to the saturation of the territory, such as the environmental pressure index. As regards the agenda G3.108, it is estimated that a total of 35 million cubic metres of special, hazardous and non-dangerous waste has been buried in the Province of Brescia. Among other things, Brescia hosts the most important hazardous waste plants and the largest landfill, which in 2013 accumulated about 80 percent of the hazardous waste of the entire Lombardy Region. We call for four specific commitments. With the first - which will certainly find the opposition of this Government, which is in favour of the lobbying of oil tankers, incinerators and large landfill operators - we have called for a moratorium on the authorisation of further installations and landfills in this area. I will also speak in an explanation of vote, because I strongly hope that the Government's opinion can be favourable on the other three points, with which we ask, first of all, that the Region be urged to make the mapping of these plants and these landfills. This could also be used to plan a number of future reclamation operations. In another point we ask that we work together with the Region to find, finally, the resources necessary for the reclamation of the entire territory in question. The last point - and I hope that at least there is no objection to this - calls for the Ministry to act with the Region so that it can give all the necessary information to the citizens, who on their skin see the defiance of those who wanted to deface and pollute the environment in this way; we ask, therefore, to make a program of information to the citizens. I will reserve the right to speak in an explanation of vote if the Government wishes to give an opinion against this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u56	Madam President, I would like to set out the agenda for G3.109. I would like colleagues to be made aware of a situation that is not well known, that of the site of national interest called Caffaro. In this area, for decades, there has been a spill of PCBs and other pollutants by the company Caffaro, which was discovered only thanks to some historical research and some analyses carried out around 2000. It has been about sixteen years since then and little or nothing has been done. Recently, the Minister for the Environment stated that EUR 2 billion would be needed for the reclamation of 57 sites of national interest. The Lombardy Region has identified an expenditure for the Caffaro area equal to 42 million euros: to us it seems very little, but it is already something, a way to start. With this agenda, we call for a simple, direct commitment, at one point, to find the EUR 42 million promised. Our mayor recently went to the Minister and asked for additional resources. He was promised - and only promised - another four million euros: it is a little less than the 42 million, which are already few, to carry out the Bonifice. We are talking about an area where there are infiltrations into the ground up to 50-70 meters, an area that is perhaps a hundred or a thousand times (it is still not well defined the true nature of pollution and the amount of polluted soil) the Seveso area, which everyone will remember for a catastrophic event, which has upset Italian citizens and which everyone has paid attention to; well, Caffaro is hundreds of times higher in terms of pollution and penetration into the ground. There are entire areas forbidden to any type of use, whether it be the digging or the play of children in the parks. In between there are schools and school gardens: we are not talking about an industrial area or outside the city, but about an area in the center of a city like Brescia, which has many other pollutants, as my colleague has just explained. It is an area where waste has been spilled from all over Italy, today hidden by a patina of external beauty. In the subsoil of Brescia there is an ecological bomb, but it is a pity that it is little known, precisely because one tries to hide reality under the carpet. We ask the Government, rather we expect it to give a clear response to this site of national interest and to the allocation of the 42 million euros needed. The figure of EUR 42 million is not exorbitant: it is the equivalent of what is allocated to the electoral refunds of the parties so it is a figure that could be easily found. We call for these sums to be allocated as soon as possible and not just promises so that at least we can intervene in the most sensitive areas in the centre of the city. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u57	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u58	I call on the authors to withdraw all the amendments tabled to Article 3, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am opposed to the agendas for G3,101, G3,106, G3,107 and G3,108. I give a favourable opinion, subject to rewording which will be presented by the representative of the Government, on the agendas of G3.100, G3.102, G3.103, G3.104, G3.105, and G3.109.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u59	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur. With regard to the agenda G3.100, I ask that the following rewording of the device be accepted: "the Government commits: to intervene so that the involvement of the regional level is envisaged also in the definition of the binding technical standards for the national system, clarifying what constitutes the competition of the agencies" provided for in article 4, paragraph 4, of the bill; to assess the opportunity to foresee, in the light of the inseparable links existing between environment, health, sustainability and growth, compatible with the balance of public finance, that the national system will see attributed additional functions of control of the air and water, of the urban and infrastructural productive settlements;" The third paragraph of the device is not amended, while paragraphs four and five should be reworded as follows: To ensure, including by assessing the appropriateness of further regulatory action, that the scientific and technical research and experimentation activities of ISPRA and the agencies are carried out independently or in conjunction with other institutional entities operating in the field of research or at the request of public entities, in the light of the public finalisation of the activities of the National System; to provide the National System with additional resources in order to implement, in the best possible way and throughout the national territory, the services indicated, as well as to strengthen and coordinate the activities of the National System.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u60	Senator Vaccari, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G3.100 proposed by the Undersecretary Degani? VACCARI (PD). Yes, ma'am. Mr Degani, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. As far as the agenda for G3.102 is concerned, I would ask that the following rewording of the device be accepted: "It commits the Government to assess the appropriateness, within the framework of the measures implementing this law, to take appropriate steps to ensure the possibility for regional agencies to disseminate also autonomously programmes of environmental education and training in environmental matters." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G3.102 proposed by the Undersecretary Degani? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, ma'am. Mr Degani, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. I propose the following rewording of the agenda G3.103: It commits the Government to assess the appropriateness, within the framework of the measures implementing this law, to take appropriate steps to ensure that the possibility for regional agencies to carry out also activities to verify the correct execution of environmental monitoring when carried out by private entities is ensured. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Do you accept the reformulation, Senator Arrigoni?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u61	Madam President, I am a little disappointed that I had also tabled an amendment on this subject, with a draft agenda. We reiterate the importance that the network system also carries out verification activities on the monitoring that are put in place by the private entities that carry out infrastructural works, especially at national level. Frankly, it seems to me that the Government is committed to assessing this opportunity and I therefore ask the representative of the Government, Undersecretary Degani, and the rapporteur to leave the agenda as originally formulated.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u62	So reformulation is not accepted. What is the opinion of the rapporteur and the government?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u63	We welcome this observation and express a favourable opinion on the G3.103 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u64	The Government accepts the agenda G3.103. As far as the agenda is concerned, G3.104, I am in favour of the following rewording: "It commits the Government to assess whether the national system, compatible with European and international legislation, should also be given technical support to the development and application of certification procedures on the environmental impact of individual products and their materials on the environment."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u65	Senator Lucidi, do you accept the reformulation? LUCIDES (M5S). Yes, Madam President. Mr Degani, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. On the agenda of the G3.105 I propose the following rewording: It commits the Government to take the appropriate initiatives to be made public periodically on the official website of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research the update of the data and statistical information referred to in paragraph 1, without additional charges charged to the public finances. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Nugnes, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u66	Madam President, I have concerns about the fact that, as has been reworded, this agenda merely reiterates what are already the legal obligations on transparency and the dissemination of data. We asked that this "periodically" be cadenced from a certain date. In fact, we find that institutions very often leave the data unupdated for many months. So our request - and I also ask that a reflection be made on this point - is to establish a certain frequency, because otherwise we do nothing but reiterate what the law already obliges us to do, that is to be transparent and to make the data available, without telling us how much time they must be updated. Clearly, a further commitment we also accept, but this is really pretending to want to make commitments, we must be aware of this. It doesn't seem to me that there really is the government's will to make a difference.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u67	What is the opinion of the rapporteur and the government?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u68	The opinion continues to be in favour if reworded as proposed by the Government, otherwise it is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u69	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u70	Senator Nugnes, do you still accept the reformulation? NUGNES (M5S). Yes, Madam President. Mr Degani, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. I confirm the opposite opinion on the G3.108 agenda. I give a favourable opinion on the agenda for G3.109, with the following rewording: It commits the Government to act promptly in order to identify the funds necessary for the reclamation of the area. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u71	[[Senator Moronese points out that she wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u72	Madam President, I would like to point out that Mrs Moronese intends to speak on the agenda for G3.108.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u73	When we get to the vote, you may speak in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u74	Do you accept the rewording proposed by the government, Senator Crimes? CRIMI (M5S). Regarding the rewording, I would ask the Government if it was possible to replace the adverb with something more certain. I ask whether it is possible to give a certainty of time: I do not necessarily say a deadline of 30 days, but at least one semester. After sixteen years, we need to give time for those funds to be allocated. I ask the government to make a further effort to try to give a certain commitment. We know that the agendas commit the government, but we have seen in the past that they are often ignored. In this case we ask at least that it be possible to have a certain date. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this further request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u75	On this subject we have recorded a public commitment by the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, with a statement in public. The opinion therefore remains favourable to the inclusion of the agenda, with the rewording proposed by the Government, otherwise the opinion is opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u76	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u77	Senator Crimes, do you accept the reformulation? CRIMI (M5S). I have no alternative, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u80	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, the rapporteur gave an opposing opinion on the G3.108 agenda when I was given a rewording by the rapporteur herself a moment earlier. I thought there had been a mistake in declaring the opinion contrary, since the rapporteur and the government gave me a rewording. I would like to clarify that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then I ask the rapporteur or the government to clarify.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u81	Madam President, on the agenda for the G3,108 meeting, at the request of Senator Moronese, a proposal for a rewording was considered and, however, because of the particularity of the subject of this agenda with regard to a general measure, the opinion remains opposed. [[Senator Endrizzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u84	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking only to add my signature to the amendments and agendas tabled by my group's colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u85	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.2. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senator Arrigoni, which is essentially the same as Amendment 3.71, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. MORONESE (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u88	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to speak in an explanation of vote on Amendment 3.8. Someone said that "Power is nothing without control." I argue that legislation is nothing without proper enforcement. I am pleased that the measure opens by specifying what the National System is, saying that it is established to ensure the homogeneity and effectiveness of the exercise of the cognitive action and public control of the quality of the environment in support of policies of environmental sustainability and health prevention to protect public health. It is obvious that this national system will not have to be an abstract entity, but will have to give support to those who then concretely carry out what is planned in order to make the control activity and the exercise of the cognitive action homogeneous and effective. Well, Amendment 3.8 gives the possibility to this new system to give concrete support to those who then have to act on the territories. In particular, with it it is expected - I read it, perhaps because someone has escaped - to draw up conventions with public bodies competent in the field of the environment for the acquisition of specific knowledge necessary for the performance of their tasks of prevention, control and monitoring of the environment. So, basically, the amendment explains to the territories how concrete action should be taken, because very often - let us not be fooled - there are people who need support from those who have been entrusted, in this case by the State, to carry out this type of activity. So it would be appropriate to support this amendment, which does not remove anything, is not political, but is simply of common sense to give effect to legislative action.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u89	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.8, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 3.81, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.81, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. [[Senator Nugnes points out that she wants to intervene.]] . (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,101 tabled by Senator Piccoli. [[Senator Nugnes points out that she wants to intervene. The vote will then be taken at the next voting time.]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,102.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u90	Madam President, I would like to speak, but I cannot go on the bench! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Would you like to speak on Amendment 3,102? NUGNES (M5S). I really wanted to speak on Amendment 3.9, but it has now gone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are already in Amendment 3,102. NUGNES (M5S). But, ma'am, let me finish talking. Since I have not even had the opportunity to vote, I would at least like my vote in favour of Amendment 3.9 to remain in the Minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, we'll take note of that. NUGNES (M5S). She's gone, but I'm asking you to take a look at the benches, because I've called her three times.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u91	You're right, Senator Nugnes. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,102 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I would ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.12 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. NUGNES (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.13, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.15 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, we are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.16 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,17.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u94	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, I do not want to take advantage of the favourable opinion on the G3.103 agenda, on which I insisted that reformulation should be removed, but Amendment 3.17 deals with the same aspect, namely that the national network system should also carry out, in addition to monitoring, which - I repeat - on infrastructure works directly belongs to private individuals, also the verification of its correct implementation. The rapporteur and the government have already recognised, with a positive opinion on the agenda, the goodness of the content of this proposal. Now, since we are going to amend the text by including in Article 17 of the financial invariance clause, this amendment should also be taken into account, which in the eyes of the rapporteur and the Government is of common sense and which I think is absolutely necessary. I therefore call on the rapporteur and the Government to review the contrary opinion they have just expressed on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u95	The rapporteur and the representative of the Government confirm their opinion against it. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 3.17, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,18.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u98	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, our proposal is that the concept of Life Cycle Assessment or LCA, i.e. the life cycle of all products, processes and activities, should also be included in the evaluation of the National System. It is now clear, at international level, that the environmental impact cannot be assessed on the instant, statically, but it is a life-long process, so it is also necessary to make an assessment of the activity throughout the life cycle. Since we are putting our hands on the National System of Environmental Agencies, I believe that it is in the definitions and in the applications and functions of the System that this type of evaluation must finally be introduced.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u99	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,18 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.19 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.20 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.21, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,211 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.22, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.23, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.25, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.26 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.29, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.101, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G3.102 (text 2) agenda was accepted by the Government. Senator Arrigoni, do you insist on voting? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.102 (text 2), tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The G3.103 agenda was accepted by the Government. Senator Arrigoni, do you insist on voting? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.103, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The G3104 (text 2) agenda was accepted by the Government. Are the presenters insisting on the vote? MORONESE (M5S). Yes, Madam President, we insist on the vote on the agenda, which I support. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.104 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The G3.105 (text 2) agenda was accepted by the Government. Senator Nugnes, do you insist on voting? NUGNES (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.105 (text 2), tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.106, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.107, presented by Senator Crimes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G3.108 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u102	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking in an explanation of vote in order to express my regret at what has happened on this day, both for the way in which it is done and for the contrary opinion. As far as the arrangements are concerned, just before the rapporteur's opinion, I was given a rewording. I would like to thank the Undersecretary Degani, for there has been an exchange of views on this agenda and I think he has tried to raise awareness of the Ministry, but apparently these are the orders from the Ministry (a phone call will have arrived). It is truly incredible, because I was convinced of the opposite opinion on the first point and I said so in the illustration, because it was impossible to have the favorable opinion from a government that, apparently, is in favour of all the lobbying that pollute our country, but I would have accepted that rewording, which introduced the diction, to evaluate the opportunity of "to" albeit with criticism. I have to understand why the government is against information campaigns to protect the health of citizens in a territory such as Brescia, which is highly polluted. And even where the government committed itself to finding the resources to proceed with the reclamations or to make the mapping of the sites that pollute Brescia, it is not a matter of "considering the opportunity of" the reformulation, because it is an obligation of the State to protect the health of the citizens! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This reformulation would have been shameful, but that didn't go well either. The Italian State, by Constitution, must guarantee the protection of health and the environment and not assess whether there is this possibility. As for the resources to be allocated to the reclamations, rather than allocating money to the banks, as has been done with many decrees, and wasting resources with the benefits and privileges of parliamentarians or other conflicts of interest, perhaps the same money could be used to protect the environment and health. Take an examination of your conscience, because this opposition to this agenda is a disgrace! And I'm ashamed for you! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u103	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.108, presented by Senator Crimes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G3.109 (text 2) agenda was accepted by the Government. Senator Crimes, do you insist on voting? CRIMI (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.109 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 4, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u104	Madam President, these amendments reflect my arguments yesterday on the issue of ISPRA. Then, of course, there will be others, presented to other articles. In particular, Amendments 4.1 and 4.6 propose to give ISPRA a legal status as a national public research body, which we consider to be absolutely fundamental, precisely within the coordination functions of the new National Network System for the protection of the environment. It is true that the text speaks of legal personality of public law and of technical and scientific autonomy, but in our opinion it would be absolutely necessary to define and ensure that this is actually a national public research body. Amendment 4.6 is even more focused on this research activity, because it proposes that ISPRA be of support, not only to the Ministry of the Environment, but also to all other requesting ministries.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u105	Our work is attended by the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Perugia 8" in Perugia. To them we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u106	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment No 4.70, which refers to the tasks assigned to the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research. Paragraph 4, which I propose to delete, gives ISPRA the task of adopting, with the help of the Agencies, binding technical standards for the National Network System for the protection of the environment. As I have already pointed out in my previous speech, I believe that this cannot be a task for those who are part of the national system and must compete with the Ministry of the Environment or, in any case, with the Government in some form. 11.20 a.m. (Small follow-up). I have therefore proposed the deletion of paragraph 4. In other words, I want to overcome the concept of the controller and the controller who, within this measure, in many cases escapes. The other amendment that I would like to briefly explain and 4.13, which concerns the last paragraph of the same Article 4, where the duration of the members of the ISPRA bodies is defined. We agree that, as I know from direct and personal experience, the professional competence and training acquired by the supervisory and management bodies of an institution or a company is an added value of the entity itself. However, in this case, given that it is the summit of a pyramid, which is attributed by the measure under consideration to a power that is not really well defined but very large, I think it is appropriate to limit the duration of the organs to four years. That is what is proposed in this amendment. I would point out that this is a question of further prudence, because - in life things happen - and we could see the case of a misidentification of a director, the chairman or the board of directors, with the consequence that for four years (in the case of the current structure, for eight years) we should subjugate the indications, sometimes binding on everyone (as the measure provides) of people who may not have done their job well.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u107	Mr President, I would like to explain the agenda for G4100, on which I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to pay attention. As Article 4 states that ISPRA is a legal person governed by public law subject to the supervision of the Ministry of the Environment and Article 7 stipulates that the Regional Agencies are legal persons, but without specifying that they are subject to the supervision of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, I recall the existence of Article 3 of Law No 61 of 21 January 1994, establishing the Agencies, which specifies the supervision of the Regions over them. With this agenda, we therefore call for the maintenance of this provision to be maintained substantially.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u108	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u109	Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw all the amendments to Article 4, otherwise the opinion will be against it. The opinion was opposed to the draft agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u110	The opinion of the Government is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u111	Let us move on to Amendment 4.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. For other similar amendments, 15.3 and 16.5 we have considered the possibility of tabling agendas, while we would like to proceed to the vote on this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.3. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.3 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.31, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.5 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.6, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.70, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.8 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.9, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4101 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.13, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4,150, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of the G4100, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.1, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 4.0.2, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u112	Mr President, I would ask you to accept Amendment No 5,300, while I call for all the other amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u113	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u114	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,300. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u115	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5,300 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 5 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.1, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 6, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which will be discussed and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u116	Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw all the amendments tabled in Article 6, otherwise the opinion is against it. On the agenda G6100, when reworded as proposed by the Government, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u117	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. Do I read the rewording of the agenda G6100?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u118	It's already been filed. Senator Lucidi, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G6.00? LUCIDES (M5S). I welcome you, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.2. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.2, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.3 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.4, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.7 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.8, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.9, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.10, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.11, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 7, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which will be discussed and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u119	Mr President, I would like to call for the withdrawal of all the amendments tabled in Article 7, otherwise I am against it. I am in favour of the G7100 agenda in the reworded text.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u120	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u121	I would like to ask the presenters whether they intend to accept the request for rewording of the agenda G7100, of which I read: "it commits the Government to consider the possibility of intervening, also through additional regulatory instruments, in order to ensure that the activities of ISPRA are carried out in a manner compatible with the impartiality of the institution, as well as in such a way as to exclude conflicts of interest".
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u122	Mr President, we welcome the rewording of the agenda and ask that it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u123	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.5, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G7100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 8, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u124	Mr President, I withdraw amendment 8.2 and I would like to explain amendment 8.3. Article 8 deals with the appointment of general managers and directors of ISPRA. With this national network system of environmental agencies, we aim to make a national technical and scientific institute independent of politics. So the fact that ISPRA and ARPA are named under the old legislation seems limiting to us. This, together with the lack of a funding fund for this system, is one of the points, which leaves us very perplexed. We believe that independence from politics must also be enshrined, and above all, in the way in which individuals from this institution are chosen. We therefore call for both ISPRA and the Agencies to be selected on the basis of public selection procedures for qualifications and examinations between professors, university researchers and public administration staff, for qualifications and competences. We have also tabled an agenda to this effect, but we believe it is extremely important that the amendment be voted on in order to take immediate action and not just be content with a vague will of the Government to move in this direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u125	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u126	I call on the authors to withdraw all the amendments tabled in Article 8, otherwise the opinion is against it. I also voted against the draft agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u127	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u128	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 8.1 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.2 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.3, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.4, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.100, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.1, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 9, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u129	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 9.1, which calls for the deletion of the term "organizational" from the article, because with reference to the LEPTAs, we believe it is essential that the organisation should continue to depend on the decisions of the individual territorial agencies and that the levels should not be defined by adopting a national catalogue of services. As far as the organization is concerned, centralism cannot intervene; it must be left to the individual agencies. With regard to Amendment 9,300, on the other hand, I would like to add a paragraph which states that: "the regions and autonomous provinces, after the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea that makes use of the Council of the National System, can bring modulations to the essential levels of environmental technical performance (LEPTA), in order to adapt them to particular orographic, climatic, landscape or local anthropic situations." Everyone knows that our country is not the same from North to South; therefore it is right that territorial specificities are recognized and therefore LEPTA cannot be defined as equal from North to South.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u130	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u131	On all the amendments tabled to Article 9, I make a call for withdrawal or I take the opposite view. I welcome, if reworded, the G9.100, G9.101, G9.103 and G9.104 agendas. I am against the G9.102 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u132	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u133	Do you accept the proposed reformulations, Senator Arrigoni?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u134	Mr President, I agree with the rewording of agendas G9.100, G9.101 and G9.103. On the other hand, I am not counting on the rewording of the G9.104 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u135	I read it to you: "the Government undertakes that the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, referred to in article 9, paragraph 3, of this provision, will remain strictly within the limits of law, addressing exclusively to the essential levels of environmental technical performance." I accept all the rewordings, Mr President, and I insist on voting on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u136	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.1 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9,300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,300, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.4, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.101 (text 2), tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.102, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.103 (text 2), tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.104 (text 2), tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Congratulations, Senator Arrigoni, today is really great! I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 10, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u137	Mr President, I should like to explain Amendment 10.4. We believe that the three-year programming of the activities of the ARPAs, even if it is only to ensure the achievement of the LEPTAs throughout the national territory, must take into account in a binding manner the opinion of the Regions, which control the activities of the ARPAs themselves. We therefore believe that the opinion requested by the Regions is not enough, but that it serves the purpose of an agreement with the Permanent Conference on Relations with the State.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u138	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u139	I call on all the amendments tabled to Article 10 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it. On the agenda, Mr G10.100, I am in favour if the rewording that has already been tabled is accepted. On the agenda, Mr G10.101 and Mr G10.102, the opposite opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u140	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u141	Senator Arrigoni, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G10.100? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.1 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.2, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.3 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.4 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.5 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.51 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G10.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G10.101, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G10.102, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u142	I call on all the amendments tabled to Article 11 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u143	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u144	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.2, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.3, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 11.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. NUGNES (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.0.1, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 12, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u145	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 12,100. Paragraph 1 of Article 12 refers to the organization of the laboratory system, referring to the national system of agencies. I therefore believe that this amendment highlights one of the major problems of the draft law, namely the absence of criteria. In fact, the text states that the National System reorganizes its laboratories, which deal with environmental analysis, in a national network, but does not define the methods and criteria to be followed by such reorganisation. We believe that this is a critical issue and a lack of very important criteria, so much so that we suggest to add the sentence: "on the basis of criteria of effectiveness, economicity and diffusion on the national territory".
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u146	Mr President, I would like to explain the agenda for the G12,100. We are in favour of the network system of accredited laboratories, for uniformity and certainty of data throughout the national territory, but we do not want to fall into the danger that these laboratories will not all respond to the same methodology and systems recognised at European level as effective and official reference methods. That is why we - and I should have tabled an amendment on this, but there is an agenda - want this necessity to be reiterated, because it is important that we do not give rise to an arbitrariness of assessment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u147	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u148	On all the amendments tabled to Article 12, I call for a withdrawal or the opinion is against. On the agenda, Mr G12,100, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u149	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u150	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12.100. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 12,100, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.2, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.3 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote on the G12,100 agenda, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 13, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u151	Mr President, I would just like to explain the G13.100 agenda. As the Council of the National System expresses its binding opinion on the three-year programme, we believe that the Government, within the framework of the measures implementing the law, should take initiatives to adopt a principle of territorial representativeness weighted by the individual regions, in order to define the voting power of regional agencies and autonomous provinces. It is true that the Agencies are not elective bodies, but are representative of the Regions. Therefore, with all the respect of the small regions, such as Val d'Aosta and Molise, it is necessary to make a differentiation on the fact that larger regions, starting from Lombardy, suffer considerable environmental pressures. That is why we call for the power of vote to be weighted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u152	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 13.3 which proposes the deletion of the word 'binding' in paragraph 2 of Article 13, which states that the Council of the National System - I would point out that it is represented and made up mainly of technicians - expresses its opinion on the measures taken by the Government on the technical nature of the environment. It seems to me already exaggerated and absolutely misleading the definition of "vincolante" on government measures, but what I cannot understand is - I tell the rapporteur, the Government and the majority - what the definition of "acts of a technical nature in environmental matters is. In my view, this paragraph is absolutely misleading, very dangerous and highlights the unsolved criticalities that this provision still carries with it. I hope that there is room to change something in these terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u153	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u154	Mr President, I call for all the amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them. I also object to the agendas for G13.100 and G13.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u155	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u156	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.1 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.2 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.3 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.4 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G13.100, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G13.101, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 14, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u157	Mr President, Article 14 deals with the inspection staff of the Regional Agencies, which sets out the ISPRA's definition of a regulation which is based solely on the principle of merit to identify inspection staff. We frankly do not like this prediction at all. It is not a merit, because who establishes who is worthy of belonging to the inspection staff? Amendment 14.2 therefore includes other criteria which we believe are absolutely essential, such as professionalism, competence, knowledge and training. I would like to draw the House's attention to this amendment which I hope will be adopted. Moreover, I would like to remind you that in the field of inspection staff, the person who works as a judicial police officer can also be chosen.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u158	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 14.9. Above all we bell towers know how limiting it is that there are no official law enforcement agencies in the environment. This is an indispensable role especially for those who carry out inspection and supervisory functions and tasks. So we believe that all those who carry out these specific functions in their exercise operate as a judicial police officer. First of all, to give these inspectors a certain qualification and also not to have to depend on the presence of additional forces of order at least at that stage.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u159	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u160	Mr President, I call for all amendments to be withdrawn or for the opinion to be rejected. I am against the G14,100 and G14,103 agendas. I am in favour of the G14.101 agenda and, if reworded, I am in favour of the G14.102 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u161	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u162	Senator Nugnes, have you already considered the proposed reformulation of the G14.102 agenda, tabled by the Government, or should I read about it? NUGNES (M5S). If you could read about it, I'd appreciate it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate (...) commits the Government to assess the possibility of intervening promptly in order to recognize the status of judicial police officer to the personnel belonging to the environmental agencies and to the ISPRA in charge of the inspection activities. NUGNES (M5S). We accept the reformulation and I add my signature, which obviously has escaped. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.1, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.2 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 14.3 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.4 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.5 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.6 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 14.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. NUGNES (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.7 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 14.71, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 14.71, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u165	NUGNES (M5S). We believe it is extremely important that inspections can also be requested after a public petition. We "keep high" because we demand that petitions be signed by at least a thousand citizens resident on the territory. We know for certain that this is already done by means of good will of the bodies where they accept the demands both as regards the prosecutors and the agencies, but it is important to institutionalize this practice in order to listen to the territories and the citizens who are the first to suffer and to be able to assess the real impacts on the territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u166	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.8 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 14.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. NUGNES (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 14.9 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators, up to the word "personal". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 14.10. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.11, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 14.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.12, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G14.100, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G14.101, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G14.102 (text 2), tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G14.103, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 14.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.0.1, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 15, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u167	Mr President, Article 15 touches on the known sorrows of the process of approving this draft law. The text approved by the House of Deputies presented a method of financing, by the transversal will of the political forces, substantial. It was given to this National Environmental Information System, which everyone seems to want, also the resources necessary to be functional for the purpose. What happened then? First of all, the rule has been modified and mortified. Not only that: by the will of the General Accountant of the State, pushed by the MISE, already in the Commission to the Chamber has been inserted, article by article, the economic and financial invariance for all the functions. Now we are faced with a paradox, with the inclusion of an article in the Environment Commission in the Senate, after the government has been obstructing for a year. And when the government is obstructive, it manages to keep the measures firm even for more than a year, unlike what these poor and inexperienced oppositions manage to do. Where, then, the measure arrived at the Commission, it entered into it with a new article, on 17, which once again underlines, in a useless and redundant way, the clause of financial invariance. This, however, will have the effect of bringing the provision back to the House, when instead, after a wait of more than a year, it was to be approved to the Senate definitively. Now we, who had considered the opportunity to submit agendas and to dismiss the measure as it was, are forced to point out the need for this funding to the National Network System of Agencies. This is because we can't buy an A++ fridge if we don't have the socket at home to put it in to make it work. This is serious and expresses unequivocally and, precisely, redundant, the Government's will not to devote a single euro to this environmental protection and monitoring system. This is very serious. We have therefore tabled appropriate proposals in Article 15. We reiterate the need for a National Environment and Justice Fund, which will also be increased by EUR 100 million per year. We know that this amendment will not be adopted, because it does not meet the Government's will to make this national system effective and effective, because controls will be annoying to those who continue to impose their law against the environment and territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u168	Mr President, we consider this reform to be important and fundamental, as has also been seen from the votes taken so far, for the creation of the national environmental protection system. However, there is a critical element that lies in the lack of resources available. For the truth, when the measure arrived from the Chamber of Deputies, all the parliamentary groups and political forces had undertaken to find the necessary resources during the examination here in the Senate. Instead, the affair of financial invariance has become - alas - an instrument to try to delay the adoption of the measure as much as possible. In fact, since this is the only modified part for the umpteenth time, the measure will have to go back to the examination of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 15.3. Yesterday I also drew the attention of the senators, the rapporteur and the government to the serious situation that is taking place at ISPRA and that in these days and in the last few hours has even taken on a real emergency dimension. Someone even talked about bankruptcy. I would therefore like to inform the rapporteur and the representative of the Government that we withdraw the amendment and that we have tabled an agenda linked precisely to the serious situation of ISPRA.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u169	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u170	Mr President, the opinion is against the amendments. With regard to the withdrawal of amendment 15.3 and the change to the agenda, the opinion is in favour, provided that the following proposal for rewording is accepted (as already accepted in the debate on the agenda for the G3.100): It commits the Government to provide the National System with additional resources in order to implement the services indicated throughout the national territory in the best possible way, as well as to strengthen and coordinate activities. On the G3.100 agenda, the opinion was in favour if the rewording already tabled was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u171	The opinion was in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u172	Senators Arrigoni and De Petris, do you accept the proposals for rewording your agenda? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I accept, Mr President. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us move on to Amendment 15.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the required number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.1, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.2. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.2 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 15.3 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G15.3 (text 2). Let us move on to Amendment 15.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the required number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.4 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 15.5 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.5 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 15.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.6 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.8, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 15.9, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 15.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.12 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.13 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.14, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G15.3 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G15.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 15.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.0.1, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 15.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.0.3, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u173	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the State Science High School "Galeazzo Alessi" in Perugia, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u174	We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 16, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u175	Mr President, Amendment 16.5 addresses a very complicated and serious issue which concerns the issue of personnel and precarious employment. We withdraw it and present an agenda on this subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u176	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u177	Mr President, I call for all the amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise I am against them. The opinion on the G16.5 agenda is in favour of the following rewording of the proposal: "to consider ways to stabilise the staff of the Environmental Agency System."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u178	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u179	Senator De Petris, do you accept the proposed reformulation? DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, I do. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us move on to Amendment No 16,300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. COMPAGNONE (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, we are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u180	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u182	COMPAGNONE (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 16,300, on which I find it strange that it was rejected, for a very simple reason. We know that in ARPA there is a shortage of personnel and that there is a great deal of personnel made redundant in Provinces and Municipalities. It would therefore be smart to use said staff to fill the ARPA staff, essentially at zero cost, since it is already paid by the State. That sounds like a common sense thing to me, and I don't understand your rejection.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u183	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,300, tabled by Senator Compagnone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 16.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.3 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 16.5 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G16.5 (text 2). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16.12. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.12 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.13 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on agenda G16.5 (text 2). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 17, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u184	Mr President, my amendment has already been withdrawn. On the same amendment 17,301, I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u185	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u186	Having not been tabled on Rule 17 other amendments than the deletion of Rule 17,301, tabled by Senator Piccoli, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of the Rule. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on the maintenance of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u189	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that the vote by the M5S Group on Rule 17 is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u190	The Presidency takes note of this. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u193	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I rise to explain to the House a fact that occurs in all the local elections. In a small municipality of Abruzzo, Carapelle Calvisio, there are only 67 voters for the beauty of 62 candidates. It's a paradox. I am pleased with such an excess of democracy, but this happens - and I add every time - because above all agents of the Carabinieri, the Police and the Prison Police (people who may come from Sardinia, Sicily and the Valle d'Aosta) are running for thirty days of paid leave. There are, therefore, such paradoxes. What strikes me is that we parliamentarians should change the law when it does not work and instead the Government, which deals with everything except citizens and problems, forces its parliamentarians to the opposite paradox, namely to vote for a reform that - as we heard last night in a television program - was written by Senator Verdini, to have a Senate where we can no longer run for office or vote. These are the two paradoxes that I would like to present to the House, hoping that, at least for the first paradox that I have explained to you, something will be done to resolve it for the next administrative authorities. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u196	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, I would like to represent the following situation in this House: Electron Italia is a 100% subsidiary of Finmeccanica, now called Leonardo, in which 68 employees work, which deals with the design and implementation of integrated physical security systems for infrastructure of important importance, a sector that is part of the core business of the current Finmeccanica one company. However, for more than ten months, Finmeccanica has started a process of sale of Electron Italia that is raising numerous concerns in the workers. In addition to the sale itself, which will result in the loss for Finmeccanica of a great wealth of experience, know-how, certifications, knowledge and management of security systems, what is alarming is the fact that a single company has been evaluated as a possible buyer, which does not seem to have the requirements to guarantee a future to workers. Beyond the assessments of entrepreneurial opportunities, which it is not up to us to judge, even if the operation seems to result in the loss of a wealth of skills in the field of physical security, which constitute a unique reality in Finmeccanica, what is most concerned are the perspectives of the 68 employees of the current Electron Italy, with the risk of considerable skills dispersed, of human capital that is depleted at the expense of the entire Italian industrial system. What will be the fate of those employees? Given that in the event of a transfer of a company the employment relationship must continue with the transferee, why are the workers so concerned? What procedures have been put in place to ensure that no further events occur after the transfer which would justify dismissal? What entry or harmonization agreements have been envisaged to ensure the preservation of all rights acquired by workers? Mr President, I ask the Senate House these questions so that the workers can be sure that the highest institutions in the country will listen to them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u199	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, as has already been mentioned, an attack has been carried out this night in the province of Messina on the President of the Nebrodi Park, Giuseppe Antoci, who has been at the forefront of the Mafia for years. He had the courage to uncover a system of really miserable grazing rents to mafia families who made European contributions for organic crops and who never, ever, ever cultivated those land. I am rapporteur of the Park Reform Act, I was Park President and Vice President of the Federparchi. I think it is important for the Senate Assembly and the world of Italian protected areas to join Giuseppe Antoci at the moment, to be close to him and to be able to express with force the indignation of the institutions for this vile attack on a decent person. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-628.ana.u200	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.31 a.m.
