ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 3 November.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u4	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u8	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. The Conference of Leaders approved the new timetable for work until 24 November. Starting from today's afternoon session the discussion of the bill on parks and protected areas will continue. With regard to the timing of the Commission's opinion on the amendments to the measure, the agenda will be able to continue with the examination of the Commission's reports on the waste cycle. The timetable for the week is also supplemented by the examination of ratifications of international agreements, in particular the Italy-France High Speed Agreement, where concluded by the Commission. Next week, in addition to the possible follow-up to the ratifications, the draft laws on the professional responsibility of health workers and on wine production, where concluded by the Commission, will be discussed. At the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 16 November, at 9.30 a.m., the Minister for Foreign Affairs will make a statement on the political situation in Turkey. The speakers of the group representatives will be followed for five minutes each. At the afternoon sitting on Thursday 17 November, the question time will take place with the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration. The schedule of the week from 22 to 24 November provides for the examination of the decree-law on the earthquake of August 2016 as well as - where transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies - of the decree-law in tax matters. Motions already scheduled for Tuesday 15 and 22 November will be confirmed. Finally, the Assembly will not be holding its session this week from 28 November to 2 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u9	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the proceedings of the Senate for the months of October, November and December 2016: - Document XXIII n. 19 - Report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the illicit activities related to the cycle of waste and environmental illicits related to them on the situation of the reclamations of contaminated sites: the SIN of Bussi sul Tirino - Drawing of Law n. 2224 and related - Provisions in the matter of professional responsibility of health personnel (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law n. 2535 - Organic Discipline of the cultivation of vine and wine production and trade (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u10	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new agenda until 24 November 2016. [[Tuesday, November 8 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following bill no. 119 and connected - Parks and protected areas - Doc. The Court ruled as follows: 17, 19 and 20 - Reports of the Committee of Inquiry into the Waste Cycle - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs - Doc. XXII n. 5 - Institution Commission of Inquiry into Seismic Events in Abruzzo Wednesday 9 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 10 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 10 November pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday 15 November ant. h. 11-13 - Motion n. 591, Bonfrisco, on the minimum pensions - Motion n. 569, Baptist, on atmospheric pollution Tuesday 15 November pom. h. 16,30-20 - Follow-up of ratifications of international agreements - Drawing of law n. 2224 and related - Occupational responsibility personal health (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the political situation in Turkey (Wednesday 16, at 16) - Drawing of law n. 2535 - Wine production (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Following arguments not concluded Wednesday 16 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16-20 Thursday 17 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 17 November pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration]] Amendments to bill No 2224 and related (Personal and occupational health responsibility) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 10 November. The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 2535 (Vineyard Production) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday 22 November ant. h. 11-13 - Motion n. 589, Centinario, on the teachers of the second group - Motion n. 590, Centinario, on the certification of precarious teachers Tuesday 22 November pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2567 - Decree-Law n. 189, earthquake August 2016 (Scade il 17 dicembre) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 193, provisions in tax matters (Ove transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade il 23 dicembre) - Following arguments not concluded Wednesday 23 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 24 " ant. h. 9,30]] Amendments to bill No 2567 (Decree-Law No 189, earthquake August 2016) should be tabled by 13:00 on Thursday 17 November. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No.... (Decree-Law No 193, provisions on taxation) will be established in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. The Assembly will not be held this week from 28 November to 2 December. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2567 (Decree-Law No 189, earthquake 24 August 2016) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 35' FI-PdL XVII 49' M5S 44' AP (NCD-UDC) 40' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 33' AL-A 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 193, fiscal provisions) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 8' FI-PdL XVII 35' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 29' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 23' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would also like to make a few proposals here at the Conference of the Leaders, trying to ensure that, in these weeks, from now until the day of the referendum, we can work seriously and also try to assess the priority issues that the Senate should discuss. Fortunately, the information of Minister Gentiloni, which will be held next Wednesday, on the very serious situation in Turkey, has been included in the timetable. However, Mr President, there are still a number of issues on which it would be good if each of us were to take responsibility for putting them on the timetable or not. So far, things haven't gone well. I refer to the draft law on citizenship which has been in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for more than a year now. There have been several speeches by the associations and you, President, have received them. We believe it is absolutely incredible that we do not want to take responsibility for bringing this bill to the House. Now, it is true that so many amendments have been tabled in the Commission, but you know better than I do that until the draft law is scheduled in this House, the situation in the Commission will not be unblocked either and, indeed, on other measures, we have arrived in this House, quietly, without a rapporteur. For us, this is an absolutely priority issue, so we ask once again that we be able to include it in the calendar next week or at the latest in the following week. I believe that this is a much more important issue than very questionable ratifications of the agreement with Canada. For us, compared to CETA, the citizenship bill is a priority. In addition, there are priorities for the motions on which it would be good for the House to take action. Among these there is a motion, first signed by Senator Cotti of the 5 Star Movement but which we have also signed, concerning the proliferation of nuclear weapons that we think should be included on the next Tuesday instead of the motion on olfactory pollution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u16	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, before we talk about the timetable, I would like to denounce a situation. Last week our colleague Mr Giarrusso made a strong complaint in this House, following which he suffered heavy intimidation, reported in the newspapers. This, in our opinion, is a very complex situation. It - I repeat - concerns one of our colleagues who has been heavily intimidated by a complaint he has made. I wanted to stress, simply and briefly, that it should be put on the record, as the work of a senator, in making complaints of this kind, can be really complicated and can lead to difficulties in relation to it. This seems to me to be an important aspect, to be emphasized and to be brought to your attention and to that of your colleagues. Coming to the calendar, at the meeting of the Leaders I simply pointed out that two subjects, which were extremely important in the previous calendar (the Minzolini question and the Albertini question) have definitely disappeared from the calendar. These are political issues that colleagues will also have to highlight, as newspapers often talk about them. In my opinion, therefore, we will have to give it to the citizens; indeed, you will have to give it to the citizens! Finally, we stressed the importance of including Senator Cotti and other senators on the proliferation of nuclear weapons in the timetable of motion 675, as this issue will be discussed at the UN in mid-December. Therefore, this determines the need to have precise times and we had therefore asked for the shift of the discussion of other motions. I would also point out that of the twelve scheduled motions so far none of them belonged to the 5 Star Movement. Therefore, this would also have been an act of courtesy on the part of colleagues, always very careful to remark the behaviors sometimes not appropriate, to them say, of the 5 Star Movement. The behaviors of the Leaders, however, show that very often one looks not at the overall interest but at the personal one. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u19	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, as the CoR Group, we will vote against this timetable proposal. We are appalled and appalled by the continuing postponement of the examination of draft laws aimed at setting up a Committee of Inquiry into the banking system. A whole country is jumping, an entire nation! Every day we talk about scams, and everything gets sunk down. So much for clarity! So much for the novelty and, in reality, for the poor Italian people and the cons! There are billions of euros at stake and there is no intention of making this clear. And who, if not Parliament, needs to make it clear? It's still postponed. This is unacceptable, and it cannot be admitted to a true and civil democracy. Mr President, it is clearly up to all of us (first of all the institutions of this Senate, you and the Presidency Council) to ensure that these situations, which are very serious and decisive for the life of this country, are examined by the Commissions and brought to this House. You can't play with the economy of this country, with the finances of this country, with the citizens of this country. With other banks about to jump, it's no big deal. It's not acceptable! Our vote is against this proposal for a timetable. It's not possible, and I don't know how to move on like this. It is a continuous delay, a continuous failure to deal with problems and not to make clear. It's impossible to go on like this. Honestly, I do not know whether this is more a Parliament or a ratifyer of decisions taken outside this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So you are asking for the draft legislation to be included on the agenda to set up a Committee of Inquiry into the banking system? Tarquinio (CoR). Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u22	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have asked to speak not in order to propose a inclusion in the agenda, but in order to hope that the next Conference of Leaders will establish the inclusion of the examination of motion No 674, signed by Senator Mandelli and many other colleagues from opposition and majority groups, concerning the European Antibiotic Day, which is being held next week. Of course, it is not possible at this time to include it before this deadline, but I think it is good that this House is aware of it, because this is a very important problem that affects a little all Western countries (especially European countries). The British Government believes that drug hypersensitivity can become a devastating problem within a few decades and Italy is one of the countries, if not the main one, where more antibiotics are used. It is therefore important to address this issue. I hope that the next Conference of the Leaders will be able to include the motion in the agenda, not because of the planned expiry of the European Antibiotic Day, but to discuss an issue that is dear to many parliamentary groups, as evidenced by the numerous signatures attached to Mr Mandelli's motion. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u25	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, there is no doubt that parliamentary majorities (whether constitutional or not) can decide on the agenda for this House's work. However, it is clear to everyone that, unfortunately, between floods and earthquakes, Italy today has different priorities than to ratify international agreements concerning useless works. In any case, I repeat that this decision falls within the prerogatives of the majority: let it be done and it will take the consequences. They're in trouble. That's fine. However, I would like to make a point. At the moment when international agreements on the Turin-Lion railway route will be final - and I don't believe it - there will certainly be urgent needs in the Val di Susa area. As a result, I ask for the urgent calendarization of the provision concerning the identification codes on the uniforms of the Forces of Order, because this time I think we're running away from the dead. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u28	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, on behalf of my staff and the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group, I would like to express our disappointment at this unreasonable and very improvised schedule of work, which substantially changes the timetable of work. We learn that the general discussion on the draft law on protected areas will be concluded and then, immediately afterwards, so already this afternoon, we will be going to the debate, by voting, of the reports fired by the bicameral committee of inquiry into the waste cycle, of which I am a member. It has been a few weeks since two reports, one on Veneto and the other on the Sicilian Region, appeared in the long list of measures in the calendar of proceedings of this Assembly. I have been told, but I ask confirmation, that in addition to these two, the report has also been included on the site of national interest of Bussi, in the Province of Pescara, of which I am rapporteur. I would like to represent that I want to play my role as rapporteur for this document in the best possible way. Frankly, having a few minutes today to prepare the speech on the report on the Bussi site and then the speeches on the other two reports seems ludicrous. Therefore, Mr President, I would ask you to be able to postpone the discussion of the Commission's reports on the waste cycle at least until tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u31	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, as far as the bicameral Commission's reports on the waste cycle are concerned, I would like to take up the issue already raised by Mr Arrigoni. The debate in the House has gone much further, and I think it is a mortification of the hard and hard work that has been done in the Commission in such a short time, with a single general debate which has taken place ahead of schedule.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u32	I greet the mayors present in the forum of Norcia, Accumoli and Arquata del Tronto, who follow our work and who go all our solidarity and all the effort to have the resources to rebuild their cities. [[Live, prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u33	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the examination of draft legislation. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u36	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that my card did not come into operation in the previous vote for the counter-test.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u37	We take note of your vote in favour, Senator Nugnes. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the examination of motions. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to include the examination of reports by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for the work which I have communicated to the House remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u40	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, the problem, pointed out by Mr Arrigoni on the need to understand whether only the reports on the regions of Sicily and Veneto, or even the third on the SIN of Bussi, will be carried out, has not been clarified. In the event, Senator Arrigoni had requested a postponement to tomorrow's day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u41	We first made the votes, Senator Calderoli, and now it is time for clarification. The motion was considered to be on schedule because of the same argument as those that will be dealt with here. Senator Arrigoni can read the text of the motion he signed and can illustrate it or he can refer to the written text. For once we put a motion on the agenda without the rapporteur's request because it is on the same subject! It was an initiative of the Conference of Leaders, and it is a wonder that there is a request to the contrary. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). But it's not motions!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u44	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all, it is not motions but resolutions. There is one for each of the three reports fired by the Committee of Inquiry into the Eco-Ray. In the calendars of the last few weeks now known and distributed to all were present the two reports on Veneto and Sicily. I asked you whether the third report, the one on the site of national interest in Bussi, also emerged. If that were the case, I would be the rapporteur, just as I was the rapporteur in the Committee of Inquiry when the report was fired several months ago. I have asked and still ask, Mr President, to have a minimum of time and I think I will also interpret the thoughts of other Members. It seems to me that Mrs Nugnes has said that. I would at least ask that the debate on these two or three reports be postponed until tomorrow morning, given that they deal with very important issues, for which the general discussion and explanation of vote must not be compressed at all, just as the time has been compressed when, a few months ago, three other reports fired by the Committee of Inquiry into waste have been dealt with: the report on the North Quadrilateral, the report on the Porto Marghera site and the report on radioactive materials.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u45	Senator Arrigoni, the debate is a joint one; if you make a request to deal with the resolutions separately, we shall vote on your request. There is no other way, because we have included the resolution on the agenda for a joint debate with the other two. In the meantime, according to the planned agenda, the Assembly will deal with the draft Parks Act, so there will be time for the debate on the parks before we can discuss the reports. Therefore, there will be some time. If, however, you insist that we treat you separately, we shall vote on your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u46	It is pointless to vote, Mr President, it is common sense. I hope you can guarantee the beginning of the discussion tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u47	What has been decided is absolutely contrary, namely that resolutions are dealt with jointly. The timing of the debate may also cause the deliberations of the resolutions to be postponed until tomorrow morning, but I do not have the power to change what the Conference of Leaders has decided, except with the vote. I take note of that, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u48	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 119, 1004, 1034, 1931 and 2012, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. Senator Ruta is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u49	Mr President, my speech will be very brief, because I fully supported Mr Caleo's report, Mr Puppato's speech, as well as speeches by other successive groups in this House. I believe that, if we complete this examination in this area of Parliament, we are going to adopt an important and innovative measure, which, in some respects, can also be further discussed, but I hope that the House of Deputies will leave the text unchanged after a debate that has been very long and complex. However, I should like to stress that an amendment by the rapporteur has been tabled for the establishment of three new national parks, including the Matese park. There is already the Matese Regional Park on the Campanian side, but there is no one on the Molise side; with the approval - I hope and urge - of the rapporteur's amendment we are going to fill a gap and realize a dream for a region, indeed for two regions, which certainly represents an extraordinary occasion. Already other interventions, such as that of my colleague Di Giacomo, but also of other colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies, had urged, through proposals of law or amendments, the establishment of a Matese National Park with the two Regions, Campania and Molise, which would thus see recognized the protection of an extraordinary landscape whose environmental value is certainly remarkable and therefore to be protected. For those areas it is an opportunity for development to enhance the typical agri-food productions that make those areas renowned throughout Italy and beyond. In conclusion, if we arrive - as I hope and imagine - at the adoption not only of the bill, but also of the rapporteur's amendment, we also crown the dream of many who in Molise fought, over the decades, to have a national park. A long time ago, forerunners of this measure had seen this hypothesis of development as necessary not only for our Region, but for the whole of Italy, because we have an environmental heritage that must not be closed, relegated, but used in an intelligent way to maintain the territory, to preserve it from the hydrogeological failure, to enhance all the well-being that can offer an environment like ours, but above all to enhance the food supply chains that make our Italy and made in Italy the real driving force of the future of our country, both from the agricultural point of view and from the point of view of the transformation of the products. For this reason, I hope that the measure before us will be approved in this House by the end of the week and then forwarded to the House, which, in turn, will be able to approve it and dismiss it in the text approved in the Senate, because the debate has been wide-ranging. This must be acknowledged and merited by the rapporteur and all the members of the Commission, who have worked to implement a text that is in many ways cutting-edge and innovative. Although there have been criticisms and a number of issues have been raised, I believe that these can be addressed in the debate and, if necessary, we can also change those points which gave rise to a more heated debate. However, I believe that the overall system is right, because it draws a trajectory that can make Italy a great natural and environmental resource. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u50	Colleagues, Minister Gentiloni pointed out that, for international commitments, his availability should be moved from Wednesday morning to 9.30 a.m. to the afternoon session of the same day at 4 p.m. The timetable for the work is therefore intended to be amended accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u51	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u52	Mr President, this reform only accentuates the politicism of the parks, weakening their main role as nature conservation. This is the summary of the director of the WWF, Gaetano Benedetto, contained in the document signed by 17 environmental associations that launch an alarm cry for the draft reform law under discussion. Today the protected areas in Italy are a reality made up of 27 national parks, 27 marine protected areas, 147 state nature reserves, 134 regional natural parks, 365 regional natural reserves and over 171 regional protected areas; overall we are talking about 870 protected natural areas, over 3,163 million land hectares and 2.3 million hectares of sea; a turnover of 2 billion euros per year and a turnover of 9 billion; 85,000 jobs, between direct and indirect (natural tourism continued to grow despite the crisis). Moreover, what is the ecological value of this immense heritage? The forests protected in the Italian parks are worth almost 600 million dollars, only for the reduction of greenhouse gases; a square metre of oceanic posidonia prairie is worth 2,244 euros per year based on the production of oxygen, the absorption of carbon and the protection of the coasts from erosion. This is partly due to the more than twenty years of implementation of Law No 394 of 1991. Certainly it is not a perfect law, but it represented a historic battle, the result of a ten-year cultural debate supported by a philosophy of conservation and protection of ecological values. However, the law is twenty-five years old and in 1991 there was no International Convention on Biodiversity, nor the National Biodiversity Strategy, nor the Natura 2000 Network, nor the European Landscape Convention, so a revision was needed. But what is the philosophy behind it? Using the same words as a PD rapporteur, the philosophy that guided it is a new managerial mode; we rather synthesize with simplification (which for you means lack of proper controls), valorization (i.e. commodification in obvious conflict of interest), politicization and territorialization at the expense of competence and specialisation in the protection and conservation of biodiversity. It is true that the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) plays a more important role, but once again in the absence of new burdens for the State, i.e. once again new tasks are assigned without the necessary financial support. But another thing also happens: ISPRA loses its representative on the Governing Council, if this is composed of less than eight members, in favour of a farmer in the agricultural sector. Federparchi, who takes over the institutional representation of the managing bodies of the protected areas (a monopoly of the representation of the managing bodies), even if Federparchi is not a category association that brings together all the entities that today have the responsibility for management. This is neither justified nor correct. In practice, the Governing Council is unbalanced about political, territorial and entrepreneurial representation, at the expense of scientific competence and the protection of biodiversity. Article 9 of Law No 394 of 1991 made it clear that the members of the Governing Council are all identified among particularly qualified experts on protected areas and biodiversity, in the following ways: four on designation of the park community and four on designation of associations, ministries, ISPRA and so on. Today, voluntarily, we change. It is specified in fact that the members of the council are chosen among qualified persons in the conservation of nature (general), or in the management of the protected areas (which is another thing), or among the representatives of the community of the park (i.e. politicians), according to the following modalities: 50 percent of the members on designation of the community of the park (unions and presidents of the Region), specifying that at least two must be mayors of the community of the park; only 50 percent of the members will be chosen among experts in the naturalistic matter, therefore four out of eight or three out of six, but from these one more, in favor of the agricultural entrepreneur. The director of the park also lacks specific scientific expertise related to biodiversity: he is a bureaucrat who, even if he comes out of the anachronistic register of directors, does not outline himself for specific competences in the field of protection, as he should. It was even intended, in a first version of the text, that this figure should lose its independence and be appointed directly by the President: this tells us a lot about the general philosophy that dictated the reform. In the regulation of the park intervenes the silence-approval of the Ministry of the environment and the Region. In the procedure of approval of the plan is acquired the binding opinion of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism (a novelty is true), but then intervenes the single authorization act that also includes the application of landscape authorization for the interventions to be carried out in the park, which is attributed to the Park Authority, doing out of fact the superintendence. The environmental assessment phase of the bodies responsible is part of the definition of the objectives, upstream, but it is excluded from the effective phase of control of the projects, which will be carried out downstream. The refusal of the Park Authority's clearance shall be immediately open to appeal: it shall be written in black and white. The philosophy of commodification starts from the financing of the parks through the royalties. The planned payment mechanism to royalty institutions by holders of economic activities with a high environmental impact, albeit already existing, is absurd. At a first stage of the text this limit was not specified or rather not set: it was an amendment by the rapporteur in the Commission. Who tells us that an amendment will not change this limit in the future, since that is the philosophy? However, the risk of serious conditioning of the operation of the institution is undoubtedly already very high now in the assessment of the only cases of renewals, extensions or extensions of the concessions, albeit existing. Visitors will probably have to pay for the ticket at the entrance. There are also proceeds from the sale of captured or killed wildlife, which, as for royalty and all those self-financing systems that go into collision with the interests of protection, seems serious to us. It is even a disincentive to control that is claimed to mean the illegal introduction of alien species. There may also be dangerous side-effects with the proposed amendment of the hunting legislation, which could also lead to the initiation of infringement proceedings by the European Union. (17.11 p.m.) (Nugnes follow). Therefore, while on the one hand hunting is explicitly prohibited in a specific article, with artifices it opens up to hunting, with the justification of the need for wildlife control. It has already been shown, however, in other parts, that these are not valid and decisive solutions to the problem and indeed feed the vicious circle of the illegal market of the insertion of alien species and distance them from the goal of eradication. To support the parks economically we also have the costly award of the brand, which certainly does not seem to us to be a greater guarantee of quality, also in clear conflict of interest with the objectives. Article 26 introduces a delegation to the Government for the introduction of voluntary payment systems for ecosystem services. Let's remember that already in article 70 of the so-called environmental connection of 2014 this was expected, but we are still waiting for the decree of the Government. In this case too, therefore, the excessive delegation to the Government does not reassure us, in terms of the possible tariff increases that would fall on the users neither in the disinterested assessment of the opportunity to grant a naturalistic asset of common interest. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we have come to the conclusion of the first phase of the long process of approving the draft law which proposes changes to the rules on national protected areas, including marine areas. The first examination of one of the relevant drafts dates back to 2013, but today we should have come to the mediation of a new and more complete text, all aimed at the valorization of these areas, also through a definition and a distinction between national parks, regional natural parks and natural reserves, which are also flanked by marine protected areas. The protected areas represent, in fact, a national environmental heritage of considerable importance: the modern notion of "beautiful Italy," which is of aesthetic and cultural nature, cannot ignore the awareness of being heirs and guardians of a large naturalistic heritage, which contributes to the formation of the concept of "specific Italian." Therefore, almost in every Region we find areas of wonderful beauty, which as such must be valued in compliance with the principle of compatibility between natural ecosystems and human, social and economic activities. Italy - with its almost 3 million hectares of land area, and as many at sea, between protected natural areas, national parks, state natural reserves, protected marine natural areas, submerged parks and the sanctuary of cetaceans, natural parks and regional natural reserves - is one of the countries that in the last ten years has made the greatest contribution in Europe to the development of a system of protected areas, from 3% to more than 10 percent of protected territory. We therefore all hope that this heritage can be converted into an opportunity for sustainable development, given the enormous potential of tourist receptiveness available to these areas which - let us remember - contain mainly or largely intact ecosystems, environments and landscapes of such importance as to require institutional intervention to ensure their conservation for future generations. This adaptation of the legislation has therefore become necessary in order to supplement and amend the Framework Act of 6 December 1991, No. 394, which in some parts of it is now abundantly outdated. The task of the legislator was, therefore, to balance the protection and conservation of biodiversity, which find in the protected areas a decisive barrier to the progressive extinction of an increasing number of animal and plant species, with their natural vocation for development, including the economic opportunities resulting from it, in a framework of compatibility and adaptation to the requirements of environmental protection. Unfortunately, however, some areas are at risk of being excluded from legal protection. I am referring in particular, Mr President, to the area which insists in part of the territories of the municipalities of Alberobello, Castellana Grotte, Noci and Putignano, in the province of Bari, where the oasis of fauna of Barsento established in 1976 by Act of the Puglia Region is already operating. The perimeter of the park coincides with the so-called oasis of wildlife protection and extends its territory of competence. The naturalistic, landscape, historical-archaeological-architectonic valence of the territory falling back in the perimeter carried out in its time by the Apulian Region is clearly evidenced by the physical and environmental uniqueness. A part of the municipalities in the area - such as Noci and Alberobello - has long been able to enshrine membership of the park in the municipal councils, approving its borders. For these reasons, certainly the conditions for adopting actions to protect, safeguard and defend the natural balances of the territory identified, as well as for valorization intended as an eco-sustainable fruition of the multiple cultural emergencies represented by the dolines, the system of caves and underground, the paths, the forest heritage based on holm oaks and roverella, the historical farmhouses, the widespread dry stone architectures characterized above all by the presence of trulli, the farms vocation of bovine and equine breeding. Close to the center of the area identified insists the early medieval basilica of Barsento, with historical-archaeological values dating back to the Iron Age. I have therefore tried to plead this case through an amendment and an agenda, which guarantee the recognition of this area as the Barsento National Park, thus promoting the possibility of increasing the financial resources, human and instrumental, useful to carry out interventions to protect the naturalistic and fauna specificities of the oasis necessary for its enhancement and its functioning. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u55	Mr President, it finally arrives in this House - for this I thank the President of the Marinello Commission and the rapporteur, Mr Caleo - a draft law which I presented on the first day of the opening of this legislature, in the same text approved in the last legislature right here in the Senate, and which therefore, even at my request, in September 2013, has obtained the so-called statement of urgency which provides that the text arrives in the Chamber within one month of that deliberation. So, from September 2013 to today it's been a month! All right, it can fit in; in the extended and certainly optional use of the calendars of the Italian Parliament this can also be there, but now we are finally examining it. As I said, this measure is based on a bill already approved, but above all on a philosophy that was adopted in the last legislature - and which I am pleased to observe in this legislature - with regard to the concept of protected areas, their function on the national territory and above all on the economy and socio-economic development of the country. This law was born twenty-two years ago to overcome the conflict between those who wanted an exclusive defense of the environment "without if and without but" as they say, and those who thought that such a defense was not congruent with the economic development of the country. In the past legislature, a new philosophy of environmental management was adopted with the agreement of all the political forces, which are still confirmed today, for the protection of areas that are not only environmental. In fact, I would like to remind some colleagues who have preceded me, and those who follow this story, that the Italian territory has a few square centimetres of virgin nature, but it has thousands of square kilometers of areas that are environmentally relevant for anthropological effect, that is for the intervention of man. Yet I have heard someone say, that we should continue to invoke the absolute no on everything, leaving management to an absolutely inadequate bureaucracy like that of the Italian superintendents; if in the past there were superintendents, perhaps today we would not have the Palazzi Borromeo on the islands of Lake Maggiore, nor - to refer to my territory - the windmills or the salt pans of the coast between Trapani and Marsala, because in those places you can no longer put a stone and you cannot change the environment. Instead, in the past, when man reasoned with perhaps different criteria, less speculative and certainly more aligned with the characteristics of the territories, he remodelled the environment in positive. We would therefore like this philosophy of the use of valuable environmental areas on the part of man to continue in a positive sense and that after a period of conflict, I repeat, between extremists of environmental protection and extremists of speculation, it should also be a wise and precise way of economic development. To do this, let us be clear, we certainly need a prerogative on the part of politics and bureaucracy: the awareness of what we are talking about, the sense of beauty, the sense of aesthetics and the sense of development, as has been said, sustainable, or perhaps, as I have always said during these debates, the sustainability of development, rather than sustainable development. With this in mind, this reform is certainly part of the reform which has been going on for years and which we welcome. It will not be perfect, but it sees a greater involvement of local authorities and therefore greater integration between local authorities and environmental associations that, believe me, sometimes are not such but are only centres of distribution of tasks and power, and we must say this clearly. In some cases, in fact, these associations far exceed their own statutory aims, going fishing in speculations of their convenience. In fact, not only a few characters are speculators of which I naturally do not share the activity of indiscriminate invasion of the territories, but also those who are playing jobs, financing, assignments and so on on the defense of the same territories. Therefore it is necessary a fair contemperation of the presence among the local authorities that had always seen with distrust the presence of the Park Authorities because they feared not only the conflict on the attribution of the powers but also, often, the conflictuality relative to the solutions for the territory. Moreover, consider the inclusion in the governance of the park bodies of activities of categories such as farmers, which have always been considered enemies of the conservation of the environment and which is demonstrated, above all by hydrogeological disruptions that affect the most marginal areas of the country, which are essential for a good conservation of the environment itself. In fact, let's think about what would happen if some areas, unfortunately now devastated even by old deforestations or by other negative practices implemented in our country, should not continue to be guarded by so-called marginal farmers, who are not the professional ones to which the Government devotes so much attention, scorning almost the pensioners, the small farmers and those who carry out this activity also as a second job in a perspective not of profit but of conservation of a good that they may have bought with effort, employing the resources coming from their work. If we did not include in the governance of the territories the representatives of these categories, we would continue to have conflicts that do not benefit, abandonment of many lands and consequent hydrogeological disasters due also to this. Not only that, we would continue to have the invasion of the alien species, with serious damage not only for agriculture, but also for biodiversity. The so-called fundamentalists of environmentalism, who indiscriminately repopulated forests and forests with alloctonous breeds, such as the carpatic boar, today mourn the disappearance of the Italian boar and the devastation of the same biodiversity. In fact, there is not only the very great damage to agriculture, which is not even compensated for, despite the law provides for state and regional funds to compensate farmers for the damage. There is also the damage of biodiversity loss, as some species do not allow the proliferation of biodiversity, neither plant nor fauna. Therefore, the problem of a true, more moderate and more shared governance of the territories is not only that of the absolute prohibition of doing something, but is the problem of better interpreting the characteristics of the territory. Of course, it is a law that also poses the challenge of competence and professionalism to local authorities and professionals. A challenge that must also be resolved by the local authorities, putting to the government of the parks people who understand (and forgive me the simplicity of the expression), who do not go beyond their duties for special interests, but who have regard to a specific interest of the environment. In this it must also be considered that the development and maintenance of very vast areas (the figures of the enormous incidence of protected areas in our country have been remembered) also depends on the men who inhabit them, that is, on the encouragement of the anthropic repopulation, and not only fauna, of these areas. It is necessary to allow the change of destination for the former rural buildings, which can become small tourist accommodation activities; that can be facilitated in transport and - why not - also in taxation, not being able to use these assets in a more economical way. I repeat that nothing is perfect and, especially in a law, someone can find positive and more pleasing aspects and some aspects that he also considers negative. However, in this measure I find a new approach to a dialogue in the territory between local authorities and those who are entrusted to the protection of the environment and, therefore, also the removal of the barriers of mistrust that have existed so far between municipalities and park entities. A reduction of certain prerogatives reserved for caste, yes, of associations that have thought they could do the good and bad time, often passing at the feet of economic operators, farmers, tour operators and also, in some cases, operators of other economic activities. Someone referred to the royalty on mining. I absolutely agree, but I want to remind all of us, and especially those who listen to us, that some mining activities are those that have characterized the territories from the point of view of preciousness. Let us think of Carrara, Mount Amiata and all that the world envys us and that we, rightly, want to protect today. But we cannot protect by establishing that a machine for the extraction of marble no longer enters that territory, because we would completely ruin the meaning of that environment, that evokes Dante's scenarios, that evokes Michelangelo and everything that is natural to our culture and that can also be naturalized to aspects of our future. So let us go on along this path. I repeat my thanks to the Commission, which produced this text, with the contribution of all. I would therefore also like to thank the representatives of Forza Italia, such as Senator Piccoli, who is its Leader in that Commission. I thank them for their contribution. Of course, some of us would like further adjustments and, perhaps, at the stage of the examination of the amendments we will be able to try to achieve, not in the political sense of the term, but from the perspective of our perspective, the change of certain aspects which, from our point of view, are somewhat aberrant, especially in some systems penalising small economic operators. Of course, however, we are satisfied with the conclusion of this bill here in the Senate. Not of the times, however, Mr President, as I said earlier. If, in fact, the times had been respectful of our Rules of Procedure, we could have approved this bill for four years now to hand it over to the House. I hope that the House of Deputies will recover the time that has been spent here (of course not unnecessarily, but to deepen and discuss) and will overcome the delay in the conclusion of our legislative process, arriving at the approval by the end of the parliamentary term. It would really be a shame if at the beginning of the next parliamentary term someone (probably not me, also given my well-established and therefore penalising experience of many years in the Senate) had to re-propose, once again, a text approved by the Senate but not ultimately by the Chamber of Deputies. It would be a further doubling of the time, but we do not know what the future Parliament will be like. Personally, I hope that we can repeat that at least at the beginning of the next parliamentary term Parliament is still what we have known. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u56	Senator Dalla Zuanna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u57	Mr President, I would like to comment briefly on Article 25 of the draft law under consideration, which delegates the Government to set up the Po Delta Park. When the planned iter will be completed, will become operational a unitary park of 1,321 square kilometers (of which 537 in Emilia and 756 in Veneto), involving 320,000 people (of which 250,000 in Emilia and 70,000 in Veneto), twenty-one municipalities and three provinces, currently with about thirty employees for which it is previewed occupational continuity. Article 25 of the measure introduces a new mechanism, because it does not establish a real national park, but asks the government to define an agreement between two regions that now manage the two regional parks, whose union will define the new unitary protected area. As clearly stated in paragraph 3 of Article 25, the legislative decree will be issued by the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, in agreement with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, but conditionally to the agreement with the two Regions concerned. It is stated, at the same time, that the failure to reach the agreement precludes the adoption of the decree. Therefore - I would like to say this - the legislative act under consideration does not in any way harm the autonomy of Veneto and Emilia-Romagna, which have contributed to the drafting of this article. There is little doubt as to whether a unified protected area of the Po Delta should be established, with an extension of more than 50% compared to the famous Camargue Park, comparable to the great parks of the Danube Delta. It is a protected area with 400 native animal species among birds, molluscs, fish, amphibians, reptiles and mammals, which in 2015 was recognized as a unitary biosphere reserve of the UNESCO MAB program. It is, therefore, a delicate ecosystem essentially unitary, even in the obvious differences linked to the wide extension and complex historical and administrative events. The opportunity to set up a unitary body is also linked to the convergence of the whole area - achieved in recent years - towards the eco-sustainable tourist vocation and eco-friendly economic activities. The unification of this large protected area is in the right administrative direction, i.e. to match the geography of a managing body with the actual geographical and socio-economic unitity of a territory. This happens whenever there is the courage to overcome localistic visions, for example when the municipalities put together their functions or even proceed to mergers, with great benefits for citizens, short and even long term. Moreover, already large Italian protected areas insist on the territories of more Regions, while maintaining a unified management. In the case of the new Po Delta Park, the unification of management will avoid contradictions and diseconomies of scale, while the programming activity will be able to enjoy more breath. Finally, the great advantage of marketing implicit in taking on a unified image throughout the protected area should not be overlooked. All this will happen - I repeat - without mortifying in any way the autonomy of the regions concerned, nor the interests of the local communities. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u58	Mr President, I will also make an intervention without extending too much the content of the measure, partly because I fully share many of the considerations I have heard before. I refer, for example, to the arguments that Senator D'Ali used to make about the involvement of local authorities or those who are in the parks. I believe that this is a very significant step forward, which cannot but be considered by those who have experienced the local administration. Why do I say that? Because the importance of the parks initially, in another season (a few decades ago), was seen only from the point of view of ensuring an almost static protection, freezing with constraints some areas of our territory or parts of the sea of our peninsula; instead this type of assessment regarding the importance and value of the establishment of a natural park, a protected area or a marine protected area gradually changed concept and substance. The concept that around a park and with the establishment of a park is becoming more and more consolidated, first of all, an important work of education is being carried out towards those who live in a certain territory, especially the new generations; this is both in terms of approach and relationship with nature, and in terms of respect for principles such as the legality and protection of certain territories, of certain fragile balances and not only of certain ecosystems; in fact, I am also referring to the particularly delicate relationships that are established within a park between man and nature and the attention necessary to balance this type of relationship. In addition to this, that is the obvious concept of prevention that follows the establishment of a natural park, there is then the valorization of our territories and in particular their use. More and more the Italian citizen realizes that it must be overcome that logic a little "afflictive" (muting the term from criminal law) that was behind the establishment of a park, with the Ministry of the environment that, with its decree, freezes, blocks, binds and therefore afflicts the territory object of that intervention. Today, however, we must move more decisively to a premium logic: the park as an advantage, as an operation that arouses not only an economic interest, but certainly an important interest in the territory, which shares and no longer suffers that park. In my opinion, this is the most modern interpretative key, which makes a qualitative leap and which testifies to the passage from the previous text to the changes introduced by the bill that we are examining. Now, I am concerned about another problem in this debate, which is followed by the adoption of this measure, which, as Mr Liuzzi has already said, we are making a favourable assessment of. I am referring to the idea that we cannot only feed on rules: we must not only produce extraordinary maintenance of the Parks Act, but we must also deal with what happens next. We can always write this law better and we can amend it in the best way from a technical point of view, but the most important thing is what happens the day after the adoption, that is how we want to set up new parks and how we want to make the parks that already exist and with what resources. We have noted that one of the problems, especially in recent years, was the lack of resources, which led the Ministry and local authorities, who believed in these operations, to surrender often (I would almost always say) even in front of territories that instead loudly demanded the establishment of natural parks and marine protected areas. I can quote a case that I know more closely. In Salento, the Adriatic part that descends from Otranto to the south towards the Cape of Leuca since 2005 has formally asked, at the initiative of the Municipality of Otranto, that however put into play over 15 kilometers, the institution of a protected marine area that was part of the area of finding the Salento peninsula. Eleven years are so many, it is many more than the three years that Senator D'Alì was talking about to bring the law to this House, and it has been substantially unnecessary because there were no resources. In fact, the Ministry has often motivated the impossibility to continue with the lack of adequate financial resources not only to conduct and conclude the studies necessary for perimeter and to issue the decree of institution, but above all, then, in order to operate, from the next day, the marine protected area. In that case there was the agreement not only of the City concerned, but also of the Province and Region Puglia, who had issued acts of decision and had committed sums, as indicated and requested by the Ministry. We can no longer see this kind of situation, we must ensure that this does not happen again and, therefore, not only do we have to find the resources - and we will certainly do so, because I see that there is a widespread will in this House, so in the next law of stability we will loudly ask for additional resources - but we must also ask ourselves the problem of giving answers to the territories when they ask, even in countertrend with respect to other territories that have never wanted protected parks and marine areas, this kind of attention. All the more reason to do so when it comes to territories that demanded this as a "reparation," for having given so much to the Italian Peninsula for the needs of the Italian territory, for having been a hub for immigrants until a few years ago, at least until the beginning of 2000, in a substantial way (and still continues a civil service towards Italy and Europe by these territories and the citizens concerned), or for having suffered, given the geographical position, important infrastructures; I think of electricity or pipelines that are assumed, in some cases, or even realized, in others. Well, a form of compensation in this sense should be recognised; it is not about giving money, because no one is asking for money. It is called for the establishment of a protected marine area. I should like to thank the rapporteur, who wanted to delimit the area with his own amendment, just as it was, more or less, requested by the territories concerned, which will take the name of Capo d'Otranto, Grotte Zinzulusa and Romanelli. I ask the Government and the Undersecretary present to make a further effort, the day after the adoption of this measure in the Assembly, with the next train of the budget maneuver, to give proper consideration to those territories that do not ask for useless infrastructure, but which ask above all to protect their natural habitat and to be able to do so in a modern, intelligent and highly sensitive key. [[Applause from Senators Caleo and Liuzzi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iurlaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u60	Mr President, twenty-five years after the launch of the framework law on protected natural areas, No 394 of 1991 required regulatory action to assess the experience of these years and to update it in the light of the new environmental emergencies and Community directives, which in the meantime have dictated to the Member States more and more specific tasks relating to sites of Community interest and special protection areas. We remember, in fact, how the main criticalities that have been found, regarding protected areas, were the lack of regulatory clarity, the lack of financial resources, the complete recognition of the role of territorial institution to every effect, the absence of national programmes of coordination and support. For marine protected areas, the lack of a uniform management body and clear rules, as well as the lack of an organic relationship with the respective managements on the ground and, moreover, the absence of predefined resources were mentioned. At present in Italy there are more than a thousand protected areas that, in terms of extension, represent more than 11 percent of the Italian territory. We are certainly indebted to Law No 394 of 1991 for the establishment of a strong system for the conservation of exceptional biodiversity and the potential for the exploitation of biodiversity for compatible socio-economic purposes. These elements, in many protected areas - unfortunately not in all - have affected local development and favored the participation of populations and democracy, becoming a factor of civil and cultural growth, as well as of the recovery of territorial identities. However, there was a need for a further growth of the system model, a further push and a contagion of virtuous managements with others that have been to a lesser extent in recent years. Parliament's intervention was therefore necessary in order to put in place a number of important aspects relating to the system of protected areas. Thus the text that comes to our examination today introduces some important changes to the law of 1991, including the insertions of the terms "eventual extensions to the sea" to extend the management in the pool of water overlooking the national parks overlooking the sea, and the definition of "naturalistic and environmental value" to the regional natural parks. In addition, protected marine areas are specifically regulated, putting an end to those discrasies that very often see two different managing bodies for protected marine areas and land parks. Unfortunately, in this regard, we have sometimes witnessed intolerable conflicts between managing bodies that undermine the credibility of management and do not render a good service even to the founding purposes of the area to be protected. In this sense, therefore, the rationalization of the management and the containment of the costs, but also the smoothing of the potential conflicts between the managing bodies different and neighboring. It is also important that the management of sites of Community interest (SIC) and special protection zones (SPAs) falling within a national or regional nature park is the responsibility of the relevant managing body. This will mean that environmental impact assessments will be carried out by the same natural park managing body, which will only help to streamline bureaucratic procedures, eliminating duplication of assessment and holding the time for issuing the necessary opinions. We would like to stress the importance that the establishment of a new park absorbs all protected areas, national, regional or local, within the territory of the park itself. ISPRA shall be assigned the functions of technical and scientific support, as well as environmental and research monitoring and control, in the field of biodiversity and protection of the marine and coastal environment. With regard to the management bodies of the Park Authority, the Park Executive Unit disappears. This will certainly benefit not only the costs but also the speed of decisions. The tasks of the Park Chair are better defined and updated, with the task of setting the objectives and carrying out the verification of the achievement of the objectives, also exercising the functions of direction. Moreover, in the sign of cost containment and the speed of work, there is the forecast of the cut in the number of members of the Governing Board, which falls from 12 members, as provided for in the 1991 law to 6 members, or to 8, depending on the territorial dimension of the park. A slightly more precise speech deserves the concept of "external areas" or "contiguous areas" to parks and reserves, recalled in several points by the text, which has not failed to arouse some perplexity and need for deepening, if not other terminological. We remember, in fact, how the concept of contiguous areas represented a novelty introduced precisely by the framework law on protected areas. In fact, around some national and regional parks pre-existing Law No 394 of 1991, pre-park areas were established, seen as "cushion" zones between the protected area and the remaining territory, conceived as areas of natural expansion of the same protected area, but of adjacent areas there was no trace. Probably the concept of contiguous areas or areas outside the protected territory was born of an ideological conflict - we might say - of the atavistic contrast between the hunting world and the animalist world. In fact, it has been seen that, from the point of view of the exercise of the hunting, it has had little importance, while it risks to affect in a remarkable way all the other aspects of the management of the territory. For this reason the adjective "contiguo," which means located in the immediate vicinity, adjacent, risks being invested by a problem of insufficient clarity, because left at the mercy of a wing of excessively variable interpretation and does not provide sufficient certainty, even when it is put in functional relation to the conservation of the values of the protected areas. The practical consequence of the lack of certain parameters may be the emergence of conflicts between the Park Authority and the territorial authorities. Although it is peaceful that the contiguous or external area does not constitute a protected area and, therefore, is not subject to the management interference of the Park Authority, except for some specific powers, in practice there have been no cases of conflict with the territorial authorities, which have felt volcanic in their ordinary competences of planning of the territory outside the park. Probably we should insist more on the commitment to create more synergies between managing bodies, municipalities and regions in order to create more understandings, in order to have well aware that natural habitats are a fundamental value for the survival of our own species to govern with balance and wisdom. This text is certainly a necessary reform of the protection system for protected areas. The length of the iter is justified by the great time it has been necessary to highlight the lights and shadows of the current system, as well as the criticalities and also the new expectations of the territories. We must certainly continue our efforts to preserve natural environments, and not so much because we are obliged to do so by the most advanced European directives, but as a cultural and lifestyle requirement for all of us. In doing so, however, we must not forget that the protected areas must exceed the basic level of pure and simple conservationism, in order to make a real leap into the ground of the development opportunities of the protected territories, which have all the characteristics to be accepted in the sensitivity of those who live and work as a resource able to bring well-being, development, employment and wealth in the sign of sustainability and balance. [[Applause from the AL-A Group and Senator Caleo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u61	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u62	Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, 25 years have passed since the adoption of Framework Law No 394 of 1991, which identified the fundamental principles for the establishment and management of protected natural areas. Today there is a need to revise that text in order to meet the changed context and to ensure better and more efficient coordination for management bodies based on experience. The draft law we are examining today has precisely this ambition. At the same time, however, it is increasingly evident that the protection of biodiversity and nature must be accompanied more and more by the enhancement of a natural capital that takes on different dimensions. Examples are environmental tourism, food production typical of quality and the valorization of the territory. However, in order to fully understand this proposal, we must remember that already Law No. 394 of 1991, in its original version, has served to build an integrated system of protected areas, national and regional, thanks to which in our country we have implemented policies of conservation of biodiversity until then unthinkable. (17.59) (Followed by Mr Orellana). All this must not be reduced, but must be transformed into a model based on good practices to be extended to those areas of Italian territory that are unique for the landscape and biodiversity they represent. I am not going to dwell on an analysis of the wording, which has already been comprehensively carried out by the rapporteur, but I am not going to avoid making a few comments on the goodness of the measure. First of all, today's challenge - and the present bill, in my opinion, seems to have understood it well - is not only the preservation of nature, but also its enhancement. The network of parks and protected areas of our country is an economic and employment flywheel, especially in agri-food and sustainable tourism. A protected and valued nature, in fact, guarantees a healthy quality of life: that between environment and agriculture is therefore an indispensable combination. Moreover, the many eco-friendly tourists who visit the parks and neighboring territories each year represent an economic value, as confirmed by several reports on the attractiveness and quality of life of these areas. Therefore, creating and supporting innovative solutions that link knowledge and the protection of biodiversity to the promotion of agro-food territories and excellence is not only a duty for us as legislators, but also an economic and social opportunity. I take advantage of the opportunity, then, to point out that it is necessary to focus on the renewal of the governance system: a shared institutional management and closer to the territories, more adapted to the perspective of the new vision of circular economy and with a greater responsibility of the local authorities is essential for our territory, and is but also in line with the reforms of the state administrations. Another brief consideration, then, deserves the method that has led today to discuss this measure. I have followed the Commission's work closely, and I am pleased that the proposed text has been the result of mediation with all stakeholders, from environmental associations to professional associations, local authorities and communities. In the text that we are now approving, most of the requests put forward by all the groups present in the Commission have been incorporated: a positive practice which is worth highlighting. The most innovative aspects are present in different norms, such as the greater valorization of the Natura 2000 Network sites, the attribution of greater importance to the plan of the park (which absorbs principles and norms of landscape plans), but also in important delegations such as that for the birth of the Po Delta Park, first illustrated by colleague Dalla Zuanna. Finally, another important innovation is the rule that protected marine areas and adjacent marine reserves or in front of national land parks are fully included in national parks. For these reasons, I think that, together with the Eco-Ray Act, the environmental link and the reordering of ISPRA and the system of environmental protection agencies, this measure is one of the environmental reforms that are positively characterising this legislature. No less, the draft law contains measures that, in addition to Community requirements, hold together all those sensitivities that favour the complete exploitation of Italian protected areas. At European level, the Habitats Directive sets out the objectives of safeguarding biodiversity through the conservation of natural habitats. In conclusion, Madam President, the opportunity that is given to us with the approval of this measure not only concerns environmental aspects, but also means addressing with appropriate new challenges such as climate change and the transformation of habitats: only in this way will Italy be able to make the most of the historical, cultural and anthropological values peculiar to its territory. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u63	Madam President, many of my colleagues and the rapporteur himself have mentioned the goodness of the first framework law, No 394 of 1991, which was adopted twenty-five years ago, but which - it has to be said - has unfortunately never been fully implemented in its original version. Yet, it has made a huge contribution to this country, because it has been - in our opinion - absolutely strategic for the purpose for which it was born, namely the conservation of biodiversity and the preciousness of our territory. Senator D'Alì said that we are not in the Amazon forest and that there is no virgin nature in our country. But in our country there is something even more precious, which is the perfect balance that has been achieved over time between history and nature, between man's contribution to the landscape and the richness of our biodiversity that many may know little: agricultural diversity and natural, fauna and plant species. The system of protected natural areas, created thanks to the law of twenty-five years ago, has given our country a fundamental contribution, but in this period it has also grown in quality and quantity - the data have been remembered previously - and has represented, in twenty-five years, a fundamental embankment to the consumption of soil. In this respect, I hope - and I hope all of you will - that we will also see the draft law on soil consumption in this House. Meanwhile we remember that the law on the system of protected natural areas of our country has constituted a fundamental embankment to the consumption of the soil and the destruction of the most precious landscapes, preserving a heritage of irreplaceable environmental resources, even more precious in the times in which we live, characterized by climate change and where the conservation of environmental resources constitutes a wealth, in favour of which we should all work together, as a ultimate goal. This system has achieved unmistakable successes, and not only in the protection of natural habitats and biodiversity, which I mentioned earlier, and in the conservation of fauna and plant species. It has also made a huge contribution to a new and widespread awareness of the environment, which has grown in recent years and - I would like to remind you here - to quality employment and has encouraged the development of a new idea and mode of tourism, which is not impacting and sustainable. We do not talk about the contribution offered to the birth of an identity agriculture, deeply linked to the territory, of excellence, to the rediscovery and protection of agricultural biodiversity, to the development of organic agriculture. The system of protected areas, provided for in the aforementioned law, has removed from the margins many internal territories that, otherwise, would have had no alternative to abandonment. Faced with these contributions so important for the development and the economy of our country, and therefore against this wealth, the successive governments - I would just like to mention those in office from 2008 onwards - have done nothing but cut resources to the parks, which have decreased by almost 50%, and organic plants. In view of what the parks and the system of protected natural areas have given, there has been a vision and short-sighted policies, which have created problems. We must therefore tell ourselves, quite frankly, what is the purpose for which the majority today want to put their hands back to the law on protected natural areas. In my view, the aim should be to relaunch the system of protected natural areas, so that the problems that have arisen over time can be overcome, that resources and staff can be implemented and that, even more so, a number of fundamental instruments for the growth of parks can be made available. In the Commission, in the long work of the last three years, some of our proposals have been partly accepted. I am thinking - for example - of an absolutely important issue for us, such as the inclusion of areas of the Natura 2000 Network in the national system of protected areas, as well as five per thousand, the inclusion of park bodies as possible recipients of property confiscated from organised crime. In essence, a number of issues have been accepted. But precisely because, as far as we are concerned, it means putting a hand in the possibility of relaunching, and therefore overcoming also the problems, the crises that have emerged mainly because of the lack of resources and staff, we continue to believe that the result that finally comes to this House, for the purpose of which before, namely relaunching the system, is absolutely insufficient on the substance and, in some respects - and I shall dwell on these points - also counterproductive. The intervention of Senator D'Alì was - as I have defined it - the voice of innocence, if we want to say so, the one that reveals also some purposes not really noble, at least from our point of view, that are the basis of the attempt to put hand back to the framework law. When I say counterproductive individuals some critical areas of the text that came to this House. First of all, I am referring to governance, which is the most sensitive issue and on which action had to be taken to put in place all the instruments for high-quality governance, in which, above all, the general interests - those of the management of protected areas for the purpose of conservation and enlargement of the system of protected areas - were to be considered priority. On the contrary, we believe that the text that came from the Commission does not accentuate the right dialectic - it can also produce important results - between the park community and the managing bodies, so perhaps we would have seen a system that at the same time strengthened the community and the tools available to the park community itself and the quality and strength of governance. Instead of choosing the route of such dialectic, which we have seen to have been absolutely fundamental for many experiences, in reality the influence of local authorities on the governing bodies of protected natural areas is accentuated too much, valorizing localistic pressures to the detriment of the representation of persons with general and widespread interests. This is also the case in the absence of a clear definition of the specific competences which should characterise the profile of the presidents and members of the Governing Council. In fact, this text lacks the criteria for identifying the presidents and members of the Governing Council and, especially for the presidents, there is no definition of competences and abilities in an area that is not the same as all the others. It is not possible to be chairman of the park and at the same time to be chairman of another secondary body or of the Antitrust Commission. We must not only be good managers in general, perhaps having already demonstrated our experiences in politics: we need specific vocations and competences in the mission of the parks, which is the conservation of nature. In our view, in recent years we have already seen a drift towards localistic interests at the expense of policies aimed at enhancing the priority vocation of parks, namely the conservation of nature and habitats and the protection of biodiversity. Now, with governance choices, localistic drifts are at risk of being exalted. In addition, for the sake of clarity, I would like to ask whether mayors should be senators, presidents of metropolitan areas and now also members of the Park Governing Board. We should start a reflection from this point of view and I do not say it because I want to underestimate the involvement of the municipalities; on the contrary, I said that it was absolutely necessary to create a dialectical system between two strong organs: the managing body and the community of the park. Therefore, in our view, it is necessary - and we have tabled some amendments on this subject - to ensure a balance in the governing bodies between the designated members of the park community and the municipalities and the representation of the scientific and associative world and, therefore, to clearly outline the indispensable competences for nature conservation, for the management of protected areas, for the protection of cultural goods and for the economy of environmental goods both of the president and of the advisers. Another sensitive issue I have highlighted is the very serious problem of resources, as endless cuts have been made. Nothing can ever work, in fact, without adequate resources. The solution that is identified is that of royalty. Of course, it is true that within the parks there are also impacting plants that will have to compensate in some way, compensate. However, I would also like to point out that this was not exactly the case at the beginning: this too was the result of a debate within the Commission and of amendments to make it clear that these rules apply only to existing installations. Otherwise, you understand what mechanism could be set in motion. The presence of a plant is not eternal - I am thinking, for example, of the concession for a mining activity - because the concessions must be renewed, they do not last all their lives, apart from those without deadline which are the subject of the referendum on drills. In any case, I find it unfair that, for the royalty revenue, the interface is directed to the managing body. In my opinion, a large part of these royalties should go to a blind fund, at the Ministry of the Environment, so as to eliminate any possibility of pressure on the park that may not have any other resources, when all kinds of permits must be issued. And I say that not because I don't like the royalty mechanism. It seems that we want to reform at zero cost and, therefore, such a mechanism has been invented. Taking it as a good thing that there must be compensation for impacting activities carried out within the park, we must eliminate any possibility of conditioning. Therefore, in our view, it is absolutely necessary that at least the blind fund should be corrected. And I get to the other point. Do we think that with the royalty system we have to give up a three-year programme for protected areas, which is really capable of providing the institutions with the right resources? Absolutely not. On the contrary, one of the issues before us, and which obviously does not end with this measure alone, is to put the real resources into place. There is also the possibility of taking fiscal measures, for example, aimed at making it easier for young people for sustainable activities on the ground. A number of much more appropriate instruments can be put in place - in our view - to provide the park system with real funding. The other issue to be highlighted is the management of staff, which must be adequate. In this case, too, organic plants have been cut. But in order to function well, the parks must have various professionalism at their disposal. One cannot think of having to reform just because twenty-five years have passed. A good reform must be carried out. We must make reforms that do not get worse. And the word reform is becoming a danger, so let us eliminate it, because every time we pronounce it there is always something wrong that worsens the situation. Here too, with the reform, we must finally enable the parks to expand and relaunch the system. Appropriate personnel, management and organic plants must be involved. Again: the register of directors is cancelled and a ternary is expected. Once again, that is, we act through the spoil system. Everyone will choose their director regardless of their competences, which will only be of an administrative nature. Instead, specific competences are needed in a field that is not like other areas of public administration, because it concerns the management of protected areas. We then come to the question of wildlife management. There really is no such thing as this, and there is absolutely no need to change the rules. We have come to the absurdity that the resources come from the animals killed, with 2%. But at least spare us that! We are talking about plans that must have scientific criteria, where priority is given to non-bloody methods to be implemented by internal staff. The danger of the norm, as it is written, is clear before everyone's eyes. We must therefore make a number of interventions, and there are many concerning the simplification of the procedures for approving the plans, certain deadlines for approval, the introduction of silence and consensus in the event of the lack of approval of the regional councils. Then there are many other issues, on which we have also tabled amendments which could ultimately allow us to settle the text that has been brought by the Commission to this House. If, after twenty-five years, Parliament is going back to dealing with the system of protected areas, we need to be clear. It is not enough to say that we are doing any reform. We need to do it because it serves this country, because parks are its wealth. And then we have to put in place all the instruments to relaunch the system, eliminating the aspects that I have also outlined briefly and which represent a negative and counterproductive element. We must re-launch the parks and not sink them, perhaps linking them to political logics and local interests. The first vocation, the mission of the parks is the conservation and protection of biodiversity. On this we create good economy, on this we create employment. But today the priority - and more and more will have to be - is the recovery of the vocation to conservation This, in fact, is the contribution that the system of protected natural areas has given to our country. Today there are the Marrakech Conference and the theme of climate change. Let us remember how valuable this contribution is. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the draft law before us intends to update the framework law on protected areas after twenty-five years of its entry into force and envisages a number of amendments to it. The short time available allows me to speak only on a few points which I consider important in order to give the work carried out in the Commission the necessary completeness. I fully agree with the orientation of the bill to strengthen the development action of the protected natural area. I agree, that is, with the need to guarantee the protection of biodiversity, the landscape, flora and fauna and, at the same time, economic development through actions to simplify the regulatory activity of the areas; and this also in view of the fact that we have witnessed over time the difficulty, if not impossible, of certain parks to promote the territory, with its products and tourist receptiveness, with the consequent absence of actions useful to the maintenance of human activity in the territories of competence, in general peripheral and internal. It is precisely in this respect, in relation to the need for economic and social promotion, that I believe it is necessary that the appointments to the Governing Council include the involvement of experts in the tourism and marketing sectors, whose competences can contribute to the revival of the desirable tourist and economic development of the territories concerned. It is obvious that, if there is a will in this direction, it will be possible to intervene when the amendments are adopted. Another point concerns the appointment of the President (Article 4 (4)). In my view, there is still a problem in the current wording which, moreover, can also be overcome when the amendments are adopted. I am referring to the forms of understanding between the Ministry and the Region. It is preferable to set a time limit within which to obtain the agreement, rather than to propose a way by which, in fact, to exclude the regions not aligned in the choice. This forecast is more an obstacle than a solution to the shared choice of the president of the protected area. In my view, the authority of the main organ of the institution is at stake. In this regard, then, in Article 5, there remains a criticality where the federation of parks is recognized as the exclusive ownership of institutional representation in general of the managing bodies. In our view, if this is to be done, it would be necessary to require precise requirements to ensure principles for the functioning of the association based on rules of transparency, universality of access and guarantee of representation. With modest effort I would point out to the rapporteur that, again in this case, he and the Government will be able to give the green light to the necessary additions, in particular to the amendments we have proposed on this subject. A further comment should be made on Article 8 of the measure, whose provisions could be defined as payments for ecosystem and environmental services (PSEA) in advance, pending the development of the subject from the delegation, which has expired, in that forum assigned to the Government. In substance, it should be noted that the way in which systems and plants are paid within the perimeter of the parks is currently taking on a provisional quantification. I hope that such provisionality will shortly be overcome by the necessary intercourse between the Ministries and stakeholders, aimed at defining the effective sustainability of the payments involved. I would like to point out to the rapporteur the need to include the Ministry of Economic Development in the section of the Ministries called to express itself, precisely in order not to fail to deepen an important contribution related to the sectors of energy production and transmission and to the economic activities located within the park. I would add, remaining on the subject of the PSEA, that I did not appreciate the reintegration at the last moment of Article 26, which reads as follows: "Delegates to the Government for the introduction of a voluntary system for the remuneration of ecosystem services" The previous delegation was inspired without giving any appreciable results; but this is precisely the symptom of uncertainty in the matter, which should be deepened without incomprehensible accelerations and with the necessary dose of common sense and adherence to reality. What has already been expressed in the debate on the environmental link must be reiterated here: the complexity of the subject requires a specific parliamentary analysis, in order to provide a comprehensive framework, complete with detailed definitions and operational indications, with the aim of avoiding the emergence of foreseeable disputes generated by uncertainty of the forecast. In my opinion, the rapporteur and the government would do better to reconsider Article 26 and to address the content of the PSEAs in a specific draft law. Among other things, I would not like the final outcome of the delegation of Article 26, given the difficulty to operate properly, to end with the orientation on the existing (I express myself) finally going to interest canons and water overcanons currently in the availability of Regions, Provinces and Municipalities, compromising a system that works effectively since the single text of the waters of 1933 and that provides significant resources to the territories concerned, without the need of centralist superstructures, expensive and obviously contrary to subsidiarity. There is yet another point that could be further improved in the debate on the amendments. I refer to Article 24, which deals with environmental protection associations and the criteria which define them as national entities. The rule, as set out, seems more to exclude than to facilitate participation, when it is expected that environmental protection associations take on a national character if present in at least ten regions: there is a considerable limit, which does not take into account the singularities and peculiarities that characterize some territories. In my opinion, the threshold must be reduced precisely in order to allow recognition of the specificity of the territories, also in relation to particular environmental, landscape and cultural aspects typical of small areas. Finally, on the subject of the contiguous areas, I note that there is still uncertainty about the treatment. There is a need for clarity of expertise and intervention on the part of the protected area, so as to avoid it being used as a real improper means of expansion - let me say this - not foreseen and not planned in the natural area, in contrast to the need to ensure the development of initiatives and activities that thrive there promoting economic and social growth. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u66	Senator Sollo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u67	Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, once again this House is called upon to discuss an important law, aimed primarily at providing the protected areas with new instruments for the protection of biodiversity and the conservation of natural habitats. It is emblematic that the Senate of the Republic has become the protagonist of an important season of reforms, especially in the environmental field. Just think of the twenty-one years for the adoption of the law on eco-reactors, the eight years for the reform of environmental agencies and the seven years to bring the discussion of this measure to this assembly. Updating the framework law of protected areas, No. 394 of 1991, represents for us the awareness that Italian parks must be put in a position to perform their best function of conservation of natural heritage and biodiversity, and the certainty that, in a modern conception of conservation, in protected areas can be created new opportunities for economic development based on the identity and quality of the territories. As the rapporteur points out, between the 24 national parks and the other protected areas of more than 11% of the Italian territory is now protected; a remarkable and not obvious goal, to which politics must return the right value and the necessary attention. The seriousness of the damage caused by climate change is in everyone's eyes, as well as the constant loss of biodiversity. Last week we ratified the Paris Agreement on the reduction of climate change in this House, and we undertook to take action to enable us to achieve the objective of keeping the increase in global temperature below the two-degree threshold. One of the ways to achieve these important objectives is surely the valorization of the role of protected areas, which, besides being the main means to increase the conservation and protection of our precious habitats, must become for the collective consciousness the instrument able to improve our living conditions, as well as a real gesture of generational solidarity. No longer the glass bell in which to close a portion of our territory, something inaccessible: the parks must open to local communities, must involve them in their conservation and safeguard action, with the aim of spreading the culture of sustainability also to the neighbouring areas. I hope that the parks can soon take on the role of institutional actors promoting local development and flying for the economy of the territory in which they fall. Certainly in order to best fulfil these new tasks, the bodies of the Park Authority need to have more power and, together, to have access to simpler and faster decision-making procedures. Between the most innovative and significant aspects of the draft law I would like to point out: the link between the Natura 2000 network and the system of protected areas for the conservation of biodiversity (Article 1); the provision to the Park Authority of the management of Natura 2000 areas, both when they are included in the territory of protected parks, reserves and marine areas, and, where possible, when they are external to it (Article 1); the provision to the existing marine protected areas (Article 1); the linking of protected marine areas to the protected areas with the introduction of the national park with the extension to the sea; the extension to the sea includes also the adjacent marine protected areas to the land park, including areas which are not protected marine areas (Article 1); the establishment of certain deadlines for the appointment of the President of national parks (Article 4); the abolition of the functions of the park plan and of the regulation (Article 5), the introduction of a public designation of such areas; the establishment of the President with elective posts and positions in the public administration (Article 4); the approval of the functions of the park managers and of the park managers; the introduction to the designation of such as a public authority; Changing to improve was important, but not easy, because, as my colleague Mr Caleo recalled, we had to deal primarily with skepticism and intellectually honestly highlight the parts of the law that did not work. I believe that the work done in the Commission over the last few months is good work, which will finally allow our protected areas to be perceived as an opportunity, as a flagship by the communities that live in them. Unfortunately, one issue that has not yet been resolved is that of resources. Without the contribution of the State, Italian national parks will hardly have the strength to set a path to relaunch a model of local development that is sustainable and truly competitive. Parliament is doing and will do its part, but now the government can do more, even from the next law of stability, by allocating more resources to safeguard our priceless biodiversity heritage. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u68	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u69	Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking all the Members who have wanted to make a contribution to the debate: it has been a debate that has been going on for a long time, not only in the Commission but also in the country, which shows that - as Senator De Petris mentioned just now, but also other Members - Law No 394 has been and is a very important law; it was born in 1991, at a time when Parliament was able to produce very important measures in the environmental field: I am reminded of the Civil Protection Act of 1992, but also of the Law on hunting and hunting, together with others that were born in those years at the very initiative of Parliament. They were not proposed by the government, but they were born because in the country had developed, in previous years, a discussion to which had made a very important contribution many environmental associations and many exponents of the world of research and universities, but also the world that referred to politics. Politics and parties also became interested in the environment and parks in those years; there was a change of pace, even culturally. In 1991 Parliament felt this change, also thanks to the contribution of very important intellectuals who in our country made the history of environmentalism (to me comes to mind Antonio Cederna, but was not the only one) and who started working on this ground. This law was born and began a season (I would say that of the nineties until the beginning of 2000) in which we came to build a system of national parks which was linked to an important political project carried out by the Regions: even before the birth of Law No. 394, Lombardy - I address Senator Mirabelli that I see in the Hall - put in place a strategy of regional parks that remained a very important moment of political and cultural elaboration. Then also other Regions did it: my Region, Liguria, in 1995 put hand to its regional law taking inspiration from Law No. 394 of 1991 and made available to the territories a good law that produced the birth of six regional parks, both coastal and inland. I have made this premise to say that we put our hand to a law that has not been useless, but important; a law that has not exhausted its propulsive phase, but that needs some elements of innovation, some corrections that go to interact with some vulnus that have emerged in these twenty-five years. Without distorting the structure of the law, we have tried to introduce elements that could have restarted more forcefully, even with enthusiasm, a system that had been a bit fatigued, with the risk of falling down on itself. It was therefore an operation that had to be carried out with great attention; I also believe that the laws - you teach me, colleagues - are all better, but at that moment we were facing a crossroads that led us to make choices that certainly do not upset the structure but make it stronger, more transparent, more effective, giving a signal of attention to a world that had certain expectations. On the basis of these assumptions, I therefore believe that the work done by the Commission is important. There have been dozens of sessions and hearings, so I would like to thank the President and all the Members who have worked hard to finalize the text. Everyone has played their own role and I must say that the contributions that have come, which are also the result of political and personal experience, have been important: many of these proposals have been included in the text that has been brought to the attention of this House. In the same way, I would like to say at once that I believe it is important that the rapporteur should also take into account some of the proposals that have come with the amendments tabled in this House: without distorting the meaning of the single text presented, a positive assessment of some of the amendments will certainly (even tonight) try to do so. In this path there has also been a conversation with the environmental world. In the introductory report, I spoke of an intercourse, of a relationship, of a dialogue with the world of parks, in particular with Federparchi that has been born, has been structured and has been enriched with very important skills, and I believe that this is a value. I came from that world: I was president of a park, I was national leader of Federparchi and I was at a time when in Italy when we went to talk about parks we risked siege: we were not welcomed with fanfare and symphonic music, but with great skepticism. If in our country there has been a cultural passage I do not think properly emphasized was what has seen the local communities, the agricultural category associations, the tour operators and the artisans passing in this twenty years from a skepticism and a very important ostracism to a sharing, an appreciation, to the point that it is now precisely the territories themselves and the local communities to ask to insert pieces of territory within the protected area. It is a personal satisfaction, but I think it is above all a cultural and political maturity that must be taken as representatives of the Italians in Parliament; we have tried to consider this aspect and we have also tried to introduce the corrections that were necessary. When I speak of greater efficiency in governance, transparency and greater speed in decision-making, I speak of one aspect that is still one of the stains in the park system. Due to the long commissioners and the fact that many times the Ministry of the Environment and the other Ministries do not find the necessary agreement with the Regions, the parks undergo the very long phases in which there is no authoritative political direction supported by an understanding between Government, Regions and territory. We have planned a tight timetable, ladies and gentlemen, because we thought and still think we could give the Minister the opportunity to decide, seeking agreement on a ternal. Maybe we don't remember very well the original Law No. 394, but in this proposal to change the profile of the president is very defined and is defined by particular competences that he didn't have before. Now instead we identify characteristics related to professionalism, competence and management much deeper than the previous draft. The other aspect that interests me is to put together and try to make dialogue a centralistic vision, ministerial, with a local vision: the parks, if they can not get out of their borders, really risk dying. We must make much more and better use of the function; we must not see the protagonism of the local communities as an invasion, an interference with the prerogatives that the State must have. To find the right balance between an important action, a programmatic footprint of the Ministry and a healthy local protagonism, I do not think it disturbs the law too much, to the extent that compensation against a ministerial decision-making was combined in this measure with the choice of the director by the Governing Council. We have remained the only country in Europe to choose the directors through a book that has been stationary for thirty years, where there is also a presence, a representation of over fifty years. I think it is important to give a signal to young people too, in terms of the selection of skills and competence that they must make available to this country. In many years I have met young people who have been trained, graduated in the most diverse disciplines, not only researchers who have graduated in natural sciences. In a river park, I believe that even a plumber can say something in terms of competence. Why forbid the possibility of competing in these places? They should not be considered, as has been the case in recent years, as a superintendence. The director had lived as a superintendent: the Superintendent of the Ministry to the local communities. We have tried to overcome this too. I have heard a lot of talk, even in articles in the newspapers, about the lack of a strategic horizon to the new phase of parks and protected areas and also the support of research and university. But let me be clear: it is for the first time, colleagues, that we have included in a law a definite role for ISPRA, which is one of the most important institutions for research in our country. ISPRA will have the legal task of supporting all those research, monitoring, programming and planning activities that parks will want to implement. We have therefore made available to the protected areas one of the most important research institutes on environmental protection: it seems to me something new. Some of my colleagues have told me to be careful, because there would be a shortage of biodiversity conservation. It should be noted, however, that we wanted to include in the legislation on the park plan elements such that each park, in drawing up the plan itself, will have to set the conservation objectives of nature and will have to report it to Parliament every year, through the National Committee for Protected Areas. In this respect, I believe that the proposal for the Third National Conference on Protected Areas is acceptable - and I do not remember, however, from what colleague it came from - and I believe that this is desirable. I would like to address Mr Degani, who is here: I believe that the conference must be done immediately, starting next year, since it is a very important aspect. Madam President, I do not know whether I still have time to highlight another aspect. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You still have five minutes, Senator Caleo. Mr Caleo, rapporteur. Thank you, Madam President. The other concern, which I would like to mention, concerns the so-called contiguous areas. We believe it is important to verify the fruitfulness of a park's planning action in order to ensure that it is not an isolated element. The park is not the aim, in achieving a better world and enhancing biodiversity, but it is an important means, like others, to achieve common goals. For the first time we have therefore decided to insert the contiguous areas, which were previously promoted by the Region and are now promoted by the park, but not as an element of subtle invasion and enlargement of the borders. I also see a wrong concern of the hunting world: in the contiguous areas, those registered in the hunting territory will be able to carry out hunting activities. However, the park will also be able to produce other levels of programming, which are not only linked to hunting, agriculture, hunting, fishing, tourism and more. So I think, from this point of view too, we have made progress. I would therefore like to thank my fellow Members for the contribution they have made to both those who have been a little more critical and those who have been much more generous towards the draft law under consideration. I therefore believe that what we are considering is a good piece of legislation, which we will deliver to the House of Deputies for rapid approval and which stems from a serious and important confrontation of the territories. There are many things to say, Madam President, but I understand that there is no time to quote them all. As I said in the introductory report, in my wandering around to collect impressions on the bill I also passed from Ussita, which is an example of how the park can help, not only for the revival of our hinterland, not only as regards the contrast to the migration of young people, especially from the hinterland to the coast, but also to eliminate all the distortions that lead to a decay of the territory and the difficulty in containing the hydrogeological failure. In Ussita there was the will to make the park one of the central elements for the revitalization of the territory; all the more so, President, I believe that this is also important in the reconstruction phase. There are careful administrators, attentive presidents, parliamentarians attentive to the territory; you can take inspiration from a sad history of our country to give the image of an Italy that wants to start from its most important beauties, from its extraordinary historical and environmental emergencies. That's what parks are for. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u70	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an important tool for the enhancement of the environmental heritage and the protection of our country's natural resources. In these two years, Parliament has approved a mosaic of environmental reforms that are indispensable for a country like Italy, which looks to the future thinking of the green economy as a real engine of development. The first piece - I would like to remind you - was the law on ecology, with which we have introduced certainties expected for years on illegal activities such as pollution and environmental disaster, traffic and the abandonment of high radioactivity material. Next, the environmental link, a real green financial link, which tackles with measures all the nerve sectors of the green economy: prevention, experimentation, the strong economic investment in environmental security. All standards are perfectly consistent with the commitment made at COP21 in Paris and with the model for the development of the circular economy proposed by Europe. I do not want to forget the reform of environmental agencies, another fundamental component that allows us to build a credible and unique system of controls that gives certainty to our children, but also to the productive fabric of the country. Now, after twenty-five years of application, there is also the revision of the framework law on protected areas, which can boast the significant result of having founded the sector policy in Italy on the subject of protected areas. This framework law - let me remind you - has allowed the affirmation of a strong and coordinated system for the protection of the Italian naturalistic and environmental heritage. As Senator Puppato pointed out, it is an extraordinary law for the time when it was enacted. Today, however, we feel the need - as many honourable senators have said - to review it, also in view of the changed sensitivity in environmental matters and the maturity acquired over the years in the management of protected areas. In this significant historical moment, the foundations of nature conservation and protection are laid by the identification of a framework law that rewrites governance in a current perspective, that reviews procedural modalities, purposes, functional competences, but also rules for the planning of the territory. Today the political, economic and social scenario is strongly transformed and requires an overall update, allowing protected areas, on the one hand, to play the role that they naturally have in protecting the environment and biodiversity, and, on the other hand, to review those forecasts that have presented critical aspects in their application. The ratio of this law is not to reaffirm the role of Italian parks, which is now widely recognized, but to create the conditions for them to be able to fulfil their functions best, which are the protection and enhancement of biodiversity; education to sustainability, the valorization of local territories and economies, as Senator Caleo has just said. I want to emphasize that the system of protected areas touches, with different intensity, more than half of the Italian municipalities, constituting an important green resource also for the cities. We have passed, as many honourable senators have pointed out, from 3% to 10% of national protected territory. Parks, in this context, must be considered as a resource aimed at improving the quality of life of citizens through actions that promote and develop the green economy. There are many innovations, I want to list only the main ones: the governance discipline of the managing bodies and the instrumentation for the management of the same subjects. To this end, procedural simplification rules are introduced and the capacity of protected areas to benefit from additional funding compared to the resources granted annually by the Ministry of the Environment from the funds of its budget is strengthened. The draft law identifies criteria on the appointment and status of members of the bodies of the institution in a more consistent way with the need to ensure integration between the different competences. In fact, it is ensured that 50% of the members of the board are designated by the community of the park, at least two of which are chosen from the mayors of the same community of the park, while the remaining 50 percent are chosen from natural and environmental experts on the designation of the institutional subjects indicated in the norm. I would like to take up what Senator D'Alì said: there is greater involvement of local authorities. In addition, a national committee for protected areas with advisory functions is set up which prepares, in particular, the official list of protected natural areas submitted for approval by the Minister of the Environment and an annual report on the activities carried out by the Park Authorities and other bodies. A series of procedural simplifications are resumed. First, the granting of concessions or authorizations relating to interventions, installations and works within the park is subject to the preventive clearance of the Park Authority, which also fulfils the function of landscape clearance. Secondly, a process is introduced for the formation of the park plan and the regulation. Thirdly, the Park Regulation will also be the planning tool in which measures to control wildlife in order to protect biodiversity will have to be defined, while maintaining the prohibition of hunting activities within the Park. In addition, the acquisition phase of the understanding for the appointment of the president is being considered. It is regulated in a different way, which however guarantees the completion of a selective procedure, the appointment of the director of the park, eliminating the register of directors but ensuring a coherent discipline that, without penalising the necessary professionalism, opens up to a competitive comparison without the possibility of direct call mechanisms and in accordance with the provisions on public management and anti-corruption. New rules on marine reserves are also provided for by simplifying the previous framework. A further novelty is self-financing. With a view to valorizing a management of the Park Agencies marked by a greater use of the proceeds in their favor, in addition to the financing that the Ministry of the environment provides annually to allocate to the Park Entities from the resources of its budget, it is expected a contribution to be paid by entities that put in place in the territory of the park and areas also contiguous activities potentially or actually impacting the environment, to be allocated to the environmental rehabilitation and conservation of the park's heritage. I am sure that the Ministry of the Environment, even with the support of this House, will always try to give concrete answers to all those territories that will ask to be flanked in the protection and enhancement of the natural resources that must be guarded. In the measure is also provided the conferment of some delegations to the Government. In particular, the Government is delegated to adopt, within six months of the date of entry into force of the law, a legislative decree that reform the ordinamental and organizational structure of the protected natural areas of the Po Delta in the Emilia-Romagna and Veneto regions, establishing the Po Delta Park on the basis of a special law that will be adopted in accordance with the criteria of delegation. This, as both Senator Dalla Zuanna and Senator Puppato said during their speech, is of great importance because it affects a significant population basin with a very high level of natural heritage, which was included in the UNESCO MAB programme in 2015. In addition, further delegation is foreseen for the introduction of a voluntary system for the remuneration of ecosystem services (ESP), and this without new or increased burdens for public finance. I hope that this measure, as Senator Caleo and Senator D'Alì have hoped, can be approved quickly, to give those answers that the world of parks has been asking us for a long time. Finally, I would like to thank the Commission for its valuable work, in particular Mr Marinello, Mr De Salvo, the rapporteurs of the majority and minority groups and all the members of the Commission, for their important work and for achieving this good result. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u72	As the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission has not yet been received, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft legislation to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u73	The next item is the joint debate on documents XXIII, Nos. 17, 19, 20. The reports have already been printed and distributed. I call Senator Puppato to explain document XXIII, No 17.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u74	Madam President, the report I am beginning to represent has been the result of the work of the Commission of Inquiry, of which I am honoured to be a member, namely the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences. It has produced, for the region from which I come, the Veneto, a lump of over 450 pages. Such a full-bodied relationship obviously has a reason to be, which I will now try to explain, extending a little as regards the aspects that have been identified during a couple of years of work and which have concerned the listening, study and analysis of different technical, political, judiciary, prosecutors, associations and even workers. These have made evident a decidedly multifaceted picture for this Italian Region, sometimes of absolutely positive importance, but often highlighting gaps, which we considered necessary to expose doviziamente in this vast excursus contained in the full report, to which the magistrate Francesco Castellano has contributed with his staff of consultants engineer Cozzupoli and Dr. Galeazzi. It must be said at once that reading the first seven pages breathes good air, so to speak. We are the first Region of Italy with regard to separate collection, with 64.6 percent compared to an average of the North Regions of 54 percent and a national average of 42 percent. We also have additional positive evaluation elements: an amount of rejection per inhabitant among the lowest of the entire national landscape and values per capita almost double compared to the national average, relative to organic harvesting. From this point of view, therefore, it must be given definitely a positive value, but it must also be specified that there is no particular merit of the regional institution but, relative to the reality from which I come, and that I know very well for having made the mayor for two mandates in that Region, a particular contribution offered by the reality of the consortia Treviso 2 and 3, of Contarina, that today is best practice in Europe relative to the recycling of urban waste. It must be said that certainly the positive contagion that that geographical area has managed to put in place, compared to the almost entire area of Veneto (there are still pockets of resistance), has ensured that some mayors, particularly evolved and responsible, have produced a system of waste collection and disposal that has become European reference, a best practice in Europe. However, this has nothing to do with, as we will see in the course of the treatment, the way in which waste has been handled normally, especially with regard to special and industrial waste and sewage sludge within the same Veneto Region. Other interesting and positive values are the plants. In the Veneto Region we can definitely talk about plant system dedicated to the valorization and recovery of the recyclable dry fractions, with over 1,100 plants of selection and recovery for 11 million tons of waste treated. They are, therefore, platforms where both waste collected in Veneto and waste collected in Veneto are treated, especially for the special part, but also for the urban part. In particular, situations relating to the treatment of glass, which are among the best in Italy, and those of paper and plastic, should be noted. Let me now turn to the topic of the waste business. Of course, a plant of this size can make mention of a management of the raw material and second of a high level but - ahinoi - it highlights the irregularity in our eyes, I would say the illegality, in the treatment of waste, which we have extensively documented in the further (after 7) almost 450 pages of the report. Going to page 19 of the report, concerning the "Criticisms related to the management of treatment plants" within the Veneto Region, we can read a significant impact: "the crime referred to in Article 260, in Venetian reality, was placed immediately in a particular way since (...) for the most part it concerns medium-sized companies, who work and regularly treat waste. In practice, it often happens that investigations of infringements point out that the phenomenon is not episodic, as there are repeated, systematic situations, so that in the end the hypothesis of illicit trafficking of waste can be formed, therefore of continuous organized activities characterized by profit purposes. As a rule, the typical phenomenon of Veneto is that of a company, regularly authorised, which, in violation of the authorisations of the AIA, normally granted for the management of particular non-dangerous waste, adopts, vice versa, a series of behaviors deviated from the regulatory structure and the requirements established in the administrative place. In other words, the company also receives hazardous waste, which is not included in the CER code for which it is authorised and subsequently mixed with the waste for which it is authorised. It is stated in the report that, thanks to the folds of controls that are not particularly effective, it operates in a manner different from that envisaged, with distortions of market rules. The most commonly used practices that produce the illegal disposal of large quantities of waste are those of the so-called bubble ring, i.e. the operation, to be carried out clearly at a storage facility, to replace the original accompanying document of the waste, with false or convenient indications, therefore with an unchanged CER code, in order to speed up its recovery or disposal. The mixture of waste is therefore difficult to challenge and also to control, given that its characteristics are rather indeterminate and, as was said, difficult to characterize also by an analysis with respect to the individual waste determined by a well-defined production process. Therefore, the transport of waste mixtures, their mixing with other waste, or diluted in its toxicity by the addition of water, is in many cases difficult to verify. All this - we must and we can say it with this heavy documentation - occurred also because in the Veneto Region we had perhaps the most emblematic case in Italy regarding an apical figure, engineer Fabio Fior. We will be surprised, when we talk about a subject of such importance, that we are stuck to a single identity. Well, this story is really amazing, because the amount of apical assignments - I read for opportunities and to avoid mistakes - that this engineer Fior has had since the year 2000 ending only in 2014 is really incredible. In the long career at the top of the regional administration became from 2000 to 2014: top executive of the environmental protection management, at the same time vice president of the regional technical commission for the environment (CTRA), from 5 July 2002 and until 23 August 2010, vice president of the environmental impact assessment commission, then manager of the energy sector, then, from 1 April 2014, manager of the sector of the integrated project Fusina for the section Venice, then responsible for the pact of the mayors and still energy section... It can well be said that he played all the roles in comedy, with a number of tasks that were still not sufficient to him; at the same time he played a role as a business consultant, so all the companies that wanted to submit applications for authorization had to pass through his managerial role. But he was also responsible for the integrated environmental permits and finally he could also carry out the testing of the related plants, since basically a few hundred authorisations in this sense were granted to him over fifteen years by the Regional Council of Veneto. But not content, thanks to a single law in Italy, Law No. 3 of 2000, which had established only in Veneto the figure of the third controller for a control plan... PRESIDENT. You must conclude, Senator Puppato, because it is already over three minutes compared to the ten minutes you have available. PUPPATO, rapporteur on document XXIII, No 17. I thought I had more, Madam President, and I wanted to examine... president. The report is only expected to be submitted for 10 minutes, so I invite you to conclude. PUPPATO, rapporteur on document XXIII, No 17. Then we'll limit ourselves. I was saying that it has constituted for this purpose a huge set of companies lend me, which I am not here to list, and it has had an impressive amount of political and technical support. His figure intersected the MOSE and the Consorzio Venezia; this figure, together or perhaps conniving with the companies that initially managed the issue of waste management in Veneto, has certainly led to a sort of swamp in the field of waste management, which has highlighted many gaps over the years. The first list is the case of the Valdastico Sud motorway, which has revealed how millions of tons of those waste have ended up inside the road undergrounds and detected various. Another example that testifies to the incorrect management on the topic muds, is the serious case - I close with this, Madam President - of a company of Adria, La Coimpo, that treated sewage sludge in 2014, ahinoi, rising to the national attention for a toxic cloud that has unleashed and caused the death of four workers. In fact, this company that was in fact affiliated to this system of opacity and bad management, treated the sludge improperly and dangerously and that day, pouring a substance (the sulphuric acid) into an underground tank, produced this serious fatal accident. There it was discovered (the ARPA Veneto discovered it later) that this output material was only one fifth of the incoming material. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Puppato, if ever you deposit the text of your speech, but it is not possible to continue, because we have to make the three presentations by tonight. PUPPATO, rapporteur on document XXIII, No 17. I thought I could have a few more minutes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You've already had them, Senator Puppato, you've already reached fifteen minutes. I invite you to deposit your speech. PUPPATO, rapporteur on document XXIII, No 17. Out. There is therefore a general critical situation in the treatment of waste in Veneto, with insufficient control activity for the lack of technical staff of the ARPA Veneto that seems to remain unchanged in the state. Another theme and I really close, are the pollution from Pfas in the Chiampo valley and in an area of more than 160 square kilometers relevant to three provinces, the cooling waters of the plants of Miteni SpA. The latter, in fact, have spilled for many years very persistent perfluoroalkyl substances, that being not retained by the purification plant, have multiplied by a thousand the maximum value allowed in the waters. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Arrigoni to explain document XXIII, No 19.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, from the report on the SIN in Bussi sul Tirino, in the province of Pescara, unanimously approved by the Committee of Inquiry into Ecomafia on 14 July 2016, it is clear - as was the case with the report on the chemical poles of the North Quadrilateral - that the safety and clean-up of contaminated industrial sites entails an urgent need for intervention, both because of the need to eliminate sources of pollution in order to ensure the protection of the environment and the health of citizens, and in order to allow the reindustrialization of areas, in order to ensure the industrial development of the country, while defending the need to avoid further consumption of agricultural soil. The SIN of Bussi sul Tirino, established in 2008, includes the territories of 11 municipalities and extends from the chemical pole to neighbouring areas, passing through the Gorges of Popoli, along the Pescara Valley, up to the confluence of the Orte river, where there are industrial plants abandoned. It is located in an extremely critical position, where it is concentrated about a third of all the waters of Abruzzo, with flow both superficial (river Pescara and river Tirino, its tributary) and underground and on the border (about parks) between the National Park Gran Sasso and the National Park Maiella Morrone. The contamination of the environmental matrix results from the industrial activities carried out for more than a century in the chemical pole, as well as from industrial waste placed in two internal landfills and, downstream of the plant, in a large illegal landfill. The SIN of Bussi sul Tirino is an example of what the Commission is highlighting in its various investigations, that is, of a settlement in which heavy industrial activities in the field of chemistry have been carried out over many decades, gradually come to cease, leaving a very contaminated site, and as such formally declared, with consequent necessity of safety and reclamation, that could hopefully prelude to the progressive resettlement of new activities, obviously with productions with less environmental impact in the same area, characterized by strategic positioning and existence of adequate infrastructures. The Commission, however, pointed out many problems and delays in the administration of the Commission, which ended last June. It is worth noting that, despite the fact that the Bussi website and its administration, which began in 2007, have, over time, benefited from special, even primary, rules introduced in order to guarantee the Commissioner economic resources and the continuation of his mandate, as well as secondary rules and administrative measures having the same purpose, the effectiveness of the model of police management has proved to be quite insufficient, indeed, I dare say bankrupt. Several critical factors emerged: the multiplicity of institutional levels involved; the inappropriately channeled interest of local authorities; the role of the Abruzzo Region as an exponentially present and representative subject, but without typical competence; the relationship of poor collaboration between commissioner and other subjects, including the Ministry; the overlapping of competences and public presence in a logic more procedural method than result. Criticism that has led to sometimes expectant attitudes of the companies located on the site, as well as the arena of administrative measures in judicial litigation. The situation then evolved on the occasion of the adoption of the last law of stability, which provided for the closure of the ten-year commissioner's management at 30 June of the current year, although the post-commissary phase has still had visible effects. In concrete terms the situation of the contamination of the site is unresolved and, on the contrary, they overlap in a singular way with activities of safety, reclamation and also characterization relative to several areas of the SIN, denouncing - and alas confirming - a historical disorganicity of total intervention, with a variegated and slow proceeding and a scarcity of actual results. It continues to worry about the potential impact of contamination on populations, which has to date not been effectively explored through epidemiological investigations, the implementation of which remains absolutely necessary. Even the expectations of the local communities related to judicial events in order to identify responsibilities that caused reflections on the management of the site have unfortunately been disappointed. The trials for the crimes of water poisoning and disaster named, in fact, after the dismissals at first instance and a ruling of the Court of Cassation returned to court of appeal boards. The story of the SIN of Bussi sul Tirino is a further confirmation of the limits of extraordinary management and the usefulness of the reclamation activities to ordinary procedures and competences, provided that they are actively and positively exercised. In this context, it is essential that the services conferences should not be understood as a marshy place of process sedimentation, but as a decisive module for the prompt and effective joint examination of the interests involved, so that the timing of the process can be speeded up. Despite the many years, it is still necessary - alas and this is serious to denounce - to correctly assess how many public resources are still necessary to complete the activities of characterization, safety and reclamation of the SIN, assessment made problematic by the previous disorganicity of the intervention. After the Commissioner's management, the presence of the Ministry of the Environment will obviously not be able to ignore the use of these economic resources for the reclamation of polluted sites. It is clear that the exclusion of balances entered in the accounts for the purpose of respecting the public finance constraints of resources allocated to local authorities for subsidies may also constitute concrete support. Fundamental then on everything will finally reach the signing of a program agreement that for several, too many months, is subject to modifications, observations and exhausting interlocutions by the institutionally involved: I am talking about the Ministry of the Environment, the Abruzzo Region and the municipalities involved. These uncertainties remove the safety and clean-up of these sites of national interest. I shall start with the conclusions, asking my colleagues in this House to take up the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry and commit the Government, as far as it is competent, to take any useful initiative in order to resolve the issues highlighted in the report, in liaison and loyal collaboration with the competent national bodies, regions and territorial authorities concerned.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u76	I call Senator Nugnes to explain document XXIII, No 20.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u77	Madam President, the bicameral committee of inquiry into the waste cycle has also addressed the thematic deepening of the situation of the waste cycle in the Region of Sicily: an important, very voluminous report, which involved three missions in that region, hearings and the study of voluminous documentation. The first part of the report dealt with the issue in a general form, since the Sicilian management model is re-proposed, with somewhat similar characteristics, throughout the territory: a pathological system, based on widespread illegality, which draws ease from the systemic inefficiency of the public administration, facilitated by continuous emergency management that lasted more than fifteen years. The first emergency declaration dates back to 1999, when it was thought to put an end to the landfill-based disposal model (one per municipality). Yet, even today, 90% of waste is disposed of in landfills, not everywhere and not always treated in a manner consistent, with 10% separate collection: fifteen years of unnecessary and, to say the least, harmful police stations. The aim of closing the landfills (the "one landfill for Municipality") was achieved, but these were replaced only by larger landfills, mostly managed by private individuals, who received very questionable permits. The survey activity was carried out in the plants in Siculiana (Agrigento), managed by Catanzaro Costruzioni, Motta Sant'Anastasia (Catania), managed by the company OIKOS Srl, in Mazzarà Sant'Andrea (Messina), managed by the company Tirreno Ambiente SpA, and in the landfill Catania, managed by the company sicula Trasporti Srl. The results of the inspection investigation were used by the Office of the Public Prosecutor and led to the adoption of personal and real protective measures. It is clear that the landfill system, with continuous emergencies, has economically favoured private operators, also due to almost non-existent public management, except for the Bellolampo landfill in Palermo, which is not, however, a positive example of management. In 2002 it was decided to build four incinerators and this decision certainly compromised the development of separate collection. At the same time it was decided to set up 27 ATOs, which have caused huge dysfunctions and exonerated the municipalities of their competences, also causing a significant financial crisis that continues until today. Management has been lacking and not transparent, but it is mostly clear that it was a tool in the hands of local consensus control policy. To date it seems (but it is certainly not known) that the debt of these institutions exceeds EUR 2 billion. After fifteen years of commissioning, no progress has been made; many territories are invaded by waste and the solution to take them out of the region is emerging. As a result, the emerging and derogating measures have had this effect: it was the European infringement procedure for violation of many articles of Directive 98 of 2008 on waste. The result was a lack of political will, an inability to manage and certainly concussion. No planning process has been carried out, always proceeding for extraordinary measures without any prospect of unblocking on the horizon, even today, I would say even with the new regional order contingent and urgent n. 5 of 7 June, which replaces the ATO and the companies of regulation waste (SRR) with a single manager and which imposes to the municipalities the use of landfills hundreds of kilometers away, with a very serious increase of the costs. This is, therefore, yet another measure which derogates from the relevant Community directives. Therefore, if it is true that the Ministry has not granted a new commission, it has in fact granted the possibility of issuing a new order containing strict prescriptions dictated by the Ministry, then it changes little. It continues to deal with collection, treatment, banging, adaptation of regional plans and planting with derogation measures that exclude and reduce the responsibility of local authorities. This June 5 order also seems to belong to the world of dreams: we want to do in six months what has not been done in fifteen years and in fact there are already delays in an absolutely embarrassing way. From the case that has been studied by the Commission, from the ban on the four incinerators, which is one of the most recent, and from the verification of permits for landfills, there is a systemic lack of controls and highly ramified corruption in all areas of politics, administration and professions that generate illegal and therefore criminal revenues. The system of maxiscarics has caused a high pollution of the neighboring areas, which has raised justified doubts of illiceity on the way in which the integrated environmental authorizations have been issued, but it has emerged the pathology of an improper mixture between civil servants and private enterprises: the normative stratification and the machinous bureaucracy facilitate the game of corrupt officials. It is to be noted that in the investigations it has been found that the same companies operating in the field of waste, present in various judicial investigations, continue to operate in the field in several parts of Italy. The infiltration of organised mafia crime, which controls the territory very well, has also made possible the realization of a thick mesh of illegal landfills. But this would never have been possible without the absolute lack of control on the part of the competent bodies. These large quantities of waste that run all over Sicily to the unauthorized sites have not been seen by anyone. The judiciary in all this does additional work with respect to the almost total insufficiency of the public administration, and recently does so too the DAC; but certainly this cannot be a solution. We call on the Government to adopt this report and to take every useful initiative in order to resolve the issues highlighted in the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry and therefore to take measures to overcome these problems.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u78	I note that any motions for resolutions to the documents before us can be tabled before the conclusion of the joint debate, which will take place tomorrow morning. I shall therefore refer the continuation of the joint debate on documents to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u79	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-717.ana.u80	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, November 9, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.42 p.m.
