ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 4 February.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u4	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u7	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2081, 14, 197, 239, 314, 909, 1211, 1231, 1316, 1360, 1745, 1763, 2069 and 2084. I would remind you that yesterday's meeting took place the reply of the representative of the Government and a proposal was rejected not to proceed to the examination of the articles. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u10	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I asked to speak because there is a different interpretation between the various senators if the illustration of today's amendments concerns only Article 1 or the whole bill. In fact, Mr President, if it concerns the whole bill, this means that we have transformed the illustration of the amendments into a general discussion, with a further forcing - and we have seen so much about this draft law - of the Rules of Procedure. If it is true that this further forcing is taking place, I would not intervene, because - if I understood correctly - I should have (i.e. I mean anyone) ten minutes for the illustration of all the amendments to the measure. You understand very well that the illustration in this way is transformed into a farce, a general discussion or in the choice to explain perhaps one or two amendments excluding everything else. It would be wrong if the explanation were on all the amendments. I would like to understand how we intend to proceed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll be clear about this soon.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u13	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the subject of my speech is essentially the same as the previous speech, and I would like to thank you, first of all, for having expressed your willingness to Senator Caliendo, to me and to the House if it is understood that the explanation of the amendments concerns the whole of all the articles and not just Article 1. Madam President, however, I register anomalies, the first of which is that there is a deviation from the usual scheme that has always witnessed the debate on draft laws in this House. I believe I am in the third legislature in the Senate and I have never seen, in all that period, an illustration of the amendments different from that made article by article. It seems to me unique that this can happen and, if it ever happens, on a measure as delicate as that on civil unions, in order to which - it is also useful to clarify here - there has been a compression of the investigation phase. I listened to Senator Marcucci's speech yesterday, but I think he said something that didn't correspond to the truth. While it is certainly true that the Justice Commission has long been concerned by the issue of civil unions, it is also true that the bill we are debating today, and which has only been the subject of a report in the Justice Commission, differs on matters of considerable importance from the previous measure: one example of all is Article 5 of the text under consideration. I therefore come back to the point under discussion: from the reading of yesterday's Minutes it is clear that President Grasso said that under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure there would be an explanation of the amendments tabled to the same Rule. That is what we read in the Report. In addition, Madam President, Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, which was referred to by President Grasso, speaks in clear terms of the explanation of the amendments tabled to the same Article. Since we all know that the legislator ubi vuit dixit, in speaking of the same article, pointed out that the explanation of the amendments cannot cover the whole of the articles. On the other hand, it is clear, Madam President, that the explanation of the amendments must be just before the voting stage and cannot be a repetition of the general debate and take place after days and days from the time of the vote. In this way the general debate would be repeated, the explanation of the amendments would completely lose its reason and everything would be left to the explanation of vote. Finally, Madam President, you know better than I that there is a considerable contrast on this issue on two points. You know better than I that this is a particularly sensitive issue, because it concerns ethical issues, for some particularly sensitive ones. I therefore believe that a reduction in the phase of the presentation of the amendments will not benefit and will not benefit the serenity, which will have to assist the work of this House, precisely because of the particular sensitivity of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u16	In the meantime, I invite all my colleagues to read the shorthand report of yesterday's sitting correctly. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, you have already pointed out that you will give a clear answer on the issues put forward by your colleagues and the Presidency. There is no doubt that clarification is necessary, because the consequentiality of the amendments, as you teach me, has its own logic. Amendments which will never be put to the vote could be put forward because they will be foreclosed by the outcome of the vote on other amendments and, by their very consequences, would no longer have any meaning. I believe that this is an unavoidable issue. There is another point, Madam President. All my colleagues in the majority and opposition will now come to explain the amendments and then you will tell us what is the correct interpretation of the speech you have just read, which we have not yet seen. There is, however, one important aspect: we are beginning a debate on the explanation of the amendments without knowing their eligibility. I look at my colleague Stefani and see her in many large volumes, as I believe all colleagues interested in following the measure directly. I believe that before we begin to explain the amendments, it would be extremely appropriate to know which amendments are acceptable. It is precisely in order to meet the needs of the majority in haste, which I see, however, stuck in other things - and, therefore, will lead us to the vote next week - that we do not want to waste time to table amendments which will then not be declared admissible. I do not think it is a controversial question to know which ones are eligible and which are not, because they are simply aimed at obtaining parliamentary flexibility that allows everyone to do their job well. A qualitative element of the explanation was also highlighted in previous interventions. Illustration of the article by article gives a rationale for explaining the content of an amendment specifically to the article that we would like to amend if necessary. Illustrating all the amendments together, however, would run the risk of holding another general debate. In theory, regardless of what they want to explain or not and regardless of the fact that we have somehow already scheduled the start of voting, I wonder how carefully the Government itself could express an opinion on two quintals of paper. I think I have clearly explained my position. And I would like to stress once again that we would like to know what the acceptable amendments are.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u19	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I do not see the other group leaders who attended the Conference of Leaders yesterday, apart from Senator Centinario. Yesterday, Madam President, it was absolutely not decided what, on the other hand, this morning, it seems that you feel it has been decided. Paragraph 9 of Rule 100, but also the same reading of yesterday's Minutes, states quite clearly that a single debate will take place on all the amendments tabled to the same article. Yesterday's problem was not to vote today, not to explain all the amendments. It was exactly the opposite: at the Conference of the Leaders, it was agreed that the vote would not take place today and the vote would begin on Tuesday next week. Procedures cannot be reversed and reversed, as we are trying to do this morning. We knew perfectly well that today would be devoted to the illustration of the amendments. But this does not mean contradicting paragraph 9 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure and above all what is written in the shorthand report of yesterday's sitting, which was pronounced by President Grasso. I therefore believe that the Presidency should examine with diligence and promptness what was decided yesterday. I was present and I repeat that it is absolutely never and at no time said that the illustrations of all the amendments to the measure in question would be completed today. It has only been said that we would not vote today and that, therefore, we would proceed with what is usually done when we do not vote, namely the explanation of the amendments. I ask the Presidency to reflect, otherwise what was decided at the Conference of the Leaders and was explained by President Grasso is not repeated in this House exactly as it was defined yesterday.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u22	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, I hope that my speech will be useful to our debate this morning, which takes place on a formal part, but in this case, as in many others, it will also become substantial. Yesterday afternoon I participated in the Conference of Group Leaders and the proposal by President Grasso to the Group Leaders to dedicate today's sitting to the explanation of the amendments I fully believe in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. I'm sure of that. In this regard, the clarification I am asking you - as Mr Volpi has already mentioned - concerns the amendments which we do not even know whether they are admissible or not. I ask you, then, whether or not their illustration has any meaning and, therefore, whether such a work can be carried out only after the declaration of eligibility. Secondly, how can I explain the amendments to Article 5 if I do not know how we voted on the amendments to Article 1? I believe that the debate on Article 1 is a matter of course because it risks changing - and we hope it can change - deeply the text which then needs to be discussed Article by Article on the basis of the amendments, and always only those that are admissible and above all those that survive the vote on Article 1. So on the procedure I think that we need not only clarification, which you - I am sure - have all the tools to give us, but also further reflection on how we intend to proceed. I would add, from a political point of view (if this procedural matter is allowed), that we cannot imagine choking a debate on fundamental articles of this measure, because we have not sufficiently clarified how the illustration and voting of the amendments takes place: we run the risk of creating confusion; I am sure that the Presidency first and none of us want it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u25	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Madam President, I should like to inform the House - it relates to this subject on which I am speaking - that this morning 51 - I am saying this ironically - good things have presented the Constitutional Court with a conflict of attribution with regard to a measure that has gone very badly, in the sense that it has skipped the stage of the Commission. This is a coercion which we denounced on the evening of 12 October, when it happened materially, and which we denounced again in this House on 14 October, and we continue to denounce today, because we are here debating a measure other than what has been discussed in the Commission. It's been investigated by the guy, and we use it to do the trial in Caius, which is a completely different thing. We are here without the rapporteur and without the formal position of the Government, even if it has expressed it to abundantiam through the President of the Council, the Minister of Relations with Parliament and the Undersecretary Scalfarotto, who even made the hunger strike on this measure. Therefore, I repeat that we are without rapporteur, without government and without knowing what are the admissible amendments on which we must discuss. We are asked to express ourselves in ten minutes on a measure never discussed in the Commission, never educated, which in the first article gives a general definition of what is civil union, marriage only for homosexuals, and then continues in the other articles to make a whole series of considerations that also involve issues of adoption, stepchild adoption, very delicate, and in the second part a further institute, relating to heterosexual couples, which are different from homosexual ones, in which hangs a maxi amendment... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, stick to the reason why I gave you the floor, which is the order of business. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). In this context... AIROLA (M5S). There is no reason in his arguments! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please. Go on, Senator Giovanardi. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Having said that, it is the umpteenth forcing that is added to all a process of blatant violation of Article 72 of the Constitution (which continues violation), and that wants to force not to proceed as it would be right today, namely to debate on the amendments to Article 1, assuming that it goes ahead. The first amendment to Article 1 is, in fact, a kangaroo amendment - let us call it that - which, if it passes, deletes all the others and, therefore, expels the House, and not only the Commission, of the power to discuss the matter. I insist and, reading what the President has said - I am referring to Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure - I believe that this morning the House can discuss the amendments to Article 1 which have been declared admissible and then on the others. I do not think we should discuss them all and then, in ten or fifteen days' time, if the so-called kangaroo amendment does not pass, I do not know what to discuss. If the other amendments are passed, the ones I am debating this morning are totally useless, whether they are declared inadmissible or whether they are changed because, by amending Articles 1 and 2, they automatically lapse.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u28	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Madam President, the point of my speech is simply to explain to the public the dynamics of this regime operation, but above all to the members of the 5 Star Movement. Without prejudice to the fact that we have very different opinions on the matter of substance, I would like it to be clear on the substance of the constitutional dynamic that, when it is possible to hold a debate on amendments which do not concern them but are the repetition of the general debate, a precedent is created which will kill the parliamentary debate on any subject. At a time when the amendments are not presented, but more simply the presidency of the Senate, and therefore the majority and the government which intends to take this rule, is allowed to kill the debate on the amendments, it will never be possible in any other kind of debate to explain the amendments on the subject. It's a very serious thing for the nation's life. It is something through which the very meaning of parliamentarism is distorted. What we are doing today does not concern - believe me - immediately the issues of the Cirinna bill. It is something that kills in king ipsa the same dynamic of making laws. I mean that in this way we will never have the opportunity to discuss amendment by amendment and, therefore, to change something that is not already pre-cooked. What is precooked in this situation? It is Senator Marcucci's amendment, which will be amended, which is also absurd. An extension of that amendment will be allowed, without a rapporteur being present and without the government's official position on this matter being considered a parliamentary one. Therefore, by further overturning our Constitution, we will once again allow the whole debate and the vote to be debated on one amendment. This is a regime operation. The responsibilities of the Senate Presidency are very serious and must be emphasized and clearly stated in front of the nation. What remains of Parliament after this debate is nothing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u31	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, let me say that I am a little surprised that you did not interrupt this debate immediately, by clarifying to the first Member who raised the issue, namely Senator Caliendo, that the Presidency intends to respect the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. I am a little surprised that you did not immediately cut off our every attempt to explain what is already evident to everyone, saying that the Senate Presidency is committed to complying with the Senate Rules of Procedure. In fact, if there is one thing clear, it is Rule 100 (2) of our Rules of Procedure, which requires that every measure be examined by article and that the amendments submitted to it are all presented together at the time when the article is examined. On the other hand, if I read correctly, it is also what the text of yesterday's shorthand report says, which, on page 29, takes up exactly that article. Therefore, Madam President, I humbly suggest to the Presidency that we want to take account of our Rules of Procedure, which speak very clearly, and yesterday's report, which is also very clear. On the other hand, the Rules of Procedure are sufficient: if there were other passages in the Report misunderstandings or misunderstandings, they would be cut off from the Rules of Procedure, which is sacred and inviolable law. The comments that many Members have made seem to me to be entirely sensible, as well as to ensure that our work is carried out. Senator Volpi has rightly said that he intends to explain the amendments that will be declared admissible, without wasting the time at his disposal, which is already little (it is ten minutes). A senator may have tabled a reasonable number of amendments: he loses a few minutes to explain something that has already fallen into thin air? Tell the Presidency what the acceptable amendments are and we will discuss them. Senator Bonfrisco added that when we examine an article we also want to know what amendments have already been examined by the House in previous articles, which have been adopted and which have not. In fact, in view of the adoption or non-approval of certain amendments, we could also withdraw some of our amendments to the subsequent articles and we would not waste time explaining them. Madam President, it really seems to me that we are dealing with a matter of very pure common sense which, in a Parliamentary House, is the guarantee that every single Member of Parliament, in each Group, can do his or her work in the best possible conditions. Otherwise, we do not serve Parliament and the country well. My invitation to the Presidency is, therefore, to reconsider what seems to be its leading opinion. [[Applause from Senator Volpi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u34	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, it is true that in the past, in the course of this parliamentary term, forcing has been carried out by means of a comprehensive and comprehensive explanation of the various amendments tabled to the various articles. But I have spoken of forcing and unfortunately, with these practices, we risk trampling our Rules of Procedure. You rightly referred to what we approved yesterday, which - unfortunately for the Presidency - is extremely clear. They say: The afternoon sitting of tomorrow will be devoted to the illustration of the amendments to the draft law on civil unions, in accordance with the procedures provided for in the ninth paragraph of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that on all the amendments tabled to the same article there is a single discussion in which each senator can intervene only once even if proposing several amendments. The vote on the amendments will begin next week. However, it is necessary to read, since it is recalled, not only the first part of paragraph 9 of the article in question, but also the one that comes after: "Out of discussion" - we are talking about the only debate on all the amendments to a single article - "the rapporteur and the representative of the Government pronounce on the amendments tabled by the House. It is clear at this point that, in accordance with paragraph 9 of Article 100 of our Rules of Procedure, we need to know the eligibility and opinions of the rapporteur and the Government. I should like to remind the House that the request that we do not proceed to the vote this morning was made by a majority group leader. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the amendments to Article 1 and after hearing the opinions are concerned, we are ready and willing to start voting. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Gasparri]] But one thing is certain: you cannot just take a little piece of the Rules of Procedure and not read everything else. The Rules of Procedure shall apply. We are talking about the explanation of the amendments. I think I've heard too much logic in the words of Senators Volpi and Formigoni. If the Presidency does not accept one of the 100 amendments, what can I say? Or, what am I going to explain the amendments to Article 5 if I have not yet considered what happens to Senators Lepri and Collina's amendment to Article 3, which basically says opposite things? Madam President, let us give an order and a common sense to our work. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u37	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, it is quite clear that the explanation of the amendments is made one article at a time and then the vote is taken. I can only agree with those who intervened earlier. But here those who have the responsibilities must take them. I would remind you that yesterday in this House the PD Holding Company rose to request the convening of the Conference of Leaders, therefore to postpone the measure. I am beginning to wonder whether this Democratic Party really wants to take the measure forward or not. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]] We do not do this in this House; I remember that Zanda asked for a group leader yesterday, and I tell the citizens who do not know all these regulatory games. I would therefore like to explain that if Zanda had not asked for that summons, it would have begun yesterday to explain the amendments and to vote. So, all those people who are waiting for rights, and especially those children who are waiting for someone - from our point of view, of course - who will take their lives to heart in some cases (the one who asks for stepchild adoption), can not submit to these House games made by the Democratic Party that - as I think today - is the party that wants to bring down this bill. [[Applause from the M5S Group, LN-Aut and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u40	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I shall be very brief. Someone else has already done so, but I would like to point out that I merely read - without making regulatory and opportunity considerations - what President Grasso said yesterday in this House. I quote from the beginning that I don't omit context. The Conference of Leaders approved the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 25 February. The afternoon sitting of tomorrow - i.e. the current one - will be devoted to the illustration of the amendments to the draft law on civil unions, in the manner provided for in the ninth paragraph of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that on all the amendments tabled to the same article there is a single discussion in which each senator can intervene only once even if proposing several amendments to the same article. This, therefore, applies to Article 1, and then to Article 2: any Senator who has tabled amendments will be able to intervene. If we say something different today, it is not a problem of regulation and democracy, but of civil life. If you do not respect what you said a few hours ago, do you explain to me why an employer should then comply with the contract he made with his employee? Why should a civil servant go to work - since the rules say so - if he contradicts what has been said, which, moreover, in our case, is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure, as well as common sense? [[Applause from Senators Rizzotti and Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u43	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, since President Zanda is also here, I would like to address him publicly. This measure must be discussed and voted on. Forza Italia has tabled 270 amendments - and I believe that in these hours it has reduced them significantly - precisely because we have not dealt with this issue with obstructive intents from the outset. Our position has been in favour of regulating the rights of homosexuals in cohabitation, while we have certain objections - which I think we have every right to express - to the issue of adoptions and equal marriage-civil unions, on which the Group of the Democratic Party has also tabled amendments. I read the newspapers today and I see that the senator, President emeritus Napolitano, raises some doubts; therefore, if we do not recognize to us the right - but it would be absurd, I say for divertissement - to raise some issues, I see that they raise so many personalities. Senator Zanda, yesterday in the group leader - in whom I participated as Vice President - it was decided not to vote today, but this was not requested by any of the opposition groups, that is, the most critical of the Cirinna text. I do not want to say that time has been asked because I have read about an important debate - I do not mean tearing - within the PD and other parties, but yesterday some majority groups said that the next day the amendments would be presented and that we would start voting since Tuesday. We were ready to vote from yesterday afternoon, from this morning: this was expected. Then everyone, in the discussion, will support his thesis, and this - alive God - can not be prevented. We have not done any obstructive work and we know that, on the one hand, there is also a debate to reduce the amendments - because the North Lega Group has tabled a number of them - and to avoid the famous kangaroos, on the other hand, because - I say this particularly to President Zanda, as well as to the President of this House - such an important issue that divides parties, families and public debate, cannot be resolved by kangaroo and kangaroo; it would be absolutely undemocratic. It seems to me, therefore, that the issues have been referred to by the Members who have spoken before and who are reported in the shorthand report. We are therefore discussing nothing, because paragraph 9 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure sets out how the illustration is to be made: Rule by Rule. The shorthand report of yesterday's sitting writes this down and quotes paragraph 9 of Rule 100 and the arrangements it provides for, so we can now explain the amendments to Article 1. The decision not to vote on the same amendments was not proposed by the most critical of the text, but by the majority. Otherwise, we could also explain the amendments and start voting on those in Article 1, but we know that there is a willingness to avoid a confrontation and enter into the substance of the debate. This is what our Group has done in this debate (a person who has expressed critical views on this measure is speaking). In addition, I myself have tabled 27 of those 270 reduced amendments, so let alone if you want to extend the time frame here. Attention, however, because if the amendments are to be explained, today we will be presenting the amendments to Article 1 and then on Tuesday we will discuss the matter again. In fact, in the end, if we vote on Article 1 on Tuesday, when we move on to Article 2, I and other colleagues would like to explain the amendments tabled to it, for the reasons which have also been said. These amendments can be withdrawn or declared inadmissible; there is the question of secret votes and they can also be summarized, given that some doubts come from various groups. I want to consider some amendments by Senators of the Democratic Party and listen to their illustration. If Senator Lumia has proposed to delete some references to family law, it may be that I can share, but I want to judge and evaluate moment by moment. We should now consider the amendments to Article 5 or Article 10, which I do not know when they will be voted on. So we are ready to vote this morning, if that were the case, after the illustration of Article 1. However, we consider this global illustration to be unworkable for regulatory reasons. So let us put this issue aside, ladies and gentlemen, because it does not exist. Otherwise, in the next stages the forcing that is now done will find it later. I say this with transparency, also because yesterday we had to listen to the speech of Don Rodrigo, Don Abbondio and Azeccagarbugli made yesterday by President Grasso on secret votes and on many other forcings. In this way the matter gets complicated and the time that you delude yourself to earning this morning you lose it later. I say this clearly: don't fool yourself. Therefore, it is better to say that the amendments to Article 1 are presented this morning and then, we will be able to vote on them, we will vote on them. If, as the majority has requested, we vote on Tuesday, we will vote on Tuesday, but we did not ask for it. But be careful, Madam President, because there is such a thing as a matter of fact. We now explain the amendments to Rule 1, and those to Rule 2 will be presented from Tuesday, and no one will be able to prevent us, in accordance with paragraph 9 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, as referred to in yesterday's Minutes. It is an issue that even a elementary school child could solve very clearly. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u46	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to point out to you that some senators, including myself, are living a little Kafkian. There is the shorthand report, clearly read by Senator Malan, but the true interpretation of this report, Madam President, you may have done so with a hint of the chief, but you have not taken the floor. Everyone here is arguing about an authentic interpretation that you didn't give. Perhaps if you were to tell us exactly what the situation is, at least we would comment on something concrete. Otherwise, we all speak in one direction, but the issue is not clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u49	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, from a point of view of the method that has been raised this morning, it is absolutely correct. It does not make sense, even in respect of the importance of the work being carried out in this House, to explain all the amendments without knowing which amendments will be withdrawn or will be declared dead and will not be discussed. I would ask you, with some common sense, Madam President, at least to allow an article-by-article illustration, so that we will have a more homogeneous and more appropriate work. Finally, and I do not say this out of a sense of controversy about someone, yesterday the 5 Star Movement was the only Group to ask the Assembly to work also on Friday and Monday, because this situation was already predictable. Therefore, to those colleagues who may be making these speeches to lengthen the time, I would ask the courtesy to play their role in an optimal way, even with a minimum of consistency. Yesterday you all voted against this proposal. Therefore, in accordance with the urgency of the work, I would ask you, Madam President, from the point of view of the method, not to allow such situations, similar to those which have also occurred with constitutional reforms. This is just an invitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u52	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I would first of all like to try to understand and apologise for not being here when this debate began. I understand Senator Gasparri's position: I understand her and she couldn't be different. Yesterday, his proposal not to move on to the discussion of the articles was rejected by 195 votes to 101, and so I understand that he now raises other issues. However, let us first take up the facts and then also give a political assessment of this stage of our work. The facts are as follows. I was at the Conference of the Leaders, where Senator Gasparri was also present, who recalled what the President of the Senate said: various issues were discussed and, with reference to the matter of the organization of the work, the Conference of the Leaders was unanimous. There was no one who raised objections. [[Comments by Senators Catalfo and Santangelo.]] On the question of the organisation of our work, no one raised any questions. SANTANGELO (M5S). That's not true, what you're saying! [[Call the president back.]] ZANDA (PD). You weren't there. [[Comments by Senators Catalfo and Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u53	Senator Santangelo and Senator Catalfo, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u54	Please, Senator Zanda. ZANDA (PD). Let me say what I remember; if I remember correctly, there is the presidency of the Senate that can correct, but I remember very well that there were no objections on this point. A very long general discussion took place on this measure and no time-limit was laid down and no one at the Conference of the Leaders asked for dates to be set for the deadline. At the Conference of the Leaders the agreement was explicit and this was true because there were no obstructive tactics. Nobody predicted any obstructionist tactics, and so far we have all honored this commitment. Yesterday at the Conference of the Leaders, the President of the Senate proposed - and no one objected - that today we begin to illustrate the amendments to the whole measure, with the understanding that those who would intervene would explain the amending proposals submitted to the whole measure. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). What are you talking about? ZANDA (PD). Nobody said a word, no one said a word. That was the decision. [[Comments from Senators Caliendo and Malan.]] CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Then Grasso made it up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please don't interrupt. There is also a Presidency. [[Senator Malan's comments.]] Senator Malan, I invite you to allow everyone to say their opinion. Senator Caliendo, you've already spoken. I invite you to sit in your place. ZANDA (PD). Of course, I quote by heart and I can be inaccurate, but, Senator Malan, I quote in good faith. I was there and I memorize what I remember. I assure you, I quote in good faith. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Then Grasso was in bad faith! [[Call the president back.]] ZANDA (PD). I want to say one thing and I would like to do so here by addressing the presidency of the Senate, because I am pleased that it is being heard by this House: these are obstructive attitudes and behaviours. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Giovanardi.]] We want the law... PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). You're exaggerating! ZANDA (PD). We want the law. If you think you're gonna keep us here for months and discuss, you're wrong. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups and Senators Di Maggio e Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u55	Senator Giovanardi, please. If you will excuse me, now the Presidency would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u56	Please, Senator Zanda, finish. ZANDA (PD). Madam President, let me say... [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u57	Hold on, Senator Zanda. I ask everyone to listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u58	[[Comments from the LN-Aut Group. Vivacious protests by Senator Bonfrisco]] Please do not have these attitudes; Senator Bonfrisco, do not threaten please. There are two other group leaders who have asked for the floor in a civil way and will be given to them because this is a House in which we must behave in a civil way. Conclude, please, Senator Zanda. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] ZANDA (PD). If they let me finish, ma'am, I'll try to finish. We had nine months of obstruction in the Commission and it is because of that obstruction... PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Don't be a victim! GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Liar! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's enough! Senator Giovanardi. Sit in your seat! You must respect the words of others. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). You're a liar! [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u59	Senator Giovanardi, you don't call anyone a liar in this House. Take on your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u60	Continue Senator Zanda. ZANDA (PD). Mr President, let Senator Giovanardi speak because if he denies that he has obstructed it, it is truly something extraordinary. [[Senator Giovanardi's protests. Comments of Senators Caliendo and Malan]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u61	That's enough, Senator Giovanardi! ZANDA (PD). Senator Giovanardi denies having obstructed: this is truly extraordinary news.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u62	[[Applause from the PD Group.]] We have had nine months of obstruction in the Commission, and that is why we have to... GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Liar! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, I call you to order! [[Senator Giovanardi's protests. Comments from the PD Group]] ZANDA (PD). We have a duty to regulate this matter because we have arrived in the Chamber without a rapporteur and the Government is rightly returning to the Chamber, but how can we give order to our work if at all times there are questions that have never to do with the merit of the problems and never to deal with the law but only with quirks that only serve to take time? GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). What are you talking about? MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). It's called democracy! They're called rules! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, I'm calling you back to order. I remind you that you are also a Senator Commissioner! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). You also remind Senator Zanda of the shorthand, the report! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Give me time to read it, Senator Caliendo, you have already raised the matter. Please stop interrupting. ZANDA (PD). It is so obvious, and I marvel at the senators of the Five Star Movement who claim to support the provision, that there is a piece of the Senate that this provision does not want it... ENDRIZZI (M5S). And it's there... (Indicates the banks of the PD Group). PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). They can't do it anymore! ZANDA (PD). And he's doing everything he can to prevent the measure from being approved. [[Comments of Senators Caliendo and Palma]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u63	Colleagues, enough is enough, opinions can be expressed without being interrupted. It has always been worth it for everyone, and it must also apply to Senator Zanda! ZANDA (PD). President, I will stop talking because in this climate it is not possible to do so. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Don't be a victim. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Nitto Palma, do not interrupt; Senator Zanda, speak to the Presidency. You must not have such attitudes! ZANDA (PD). Senator Nitto Palma, I can't count the times you took the floor and I didn't agree with what you said. You're quoting me a single time when I would've done numbers like the ones you're doing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u64	[[Applause from the PD Group.]] It never happened. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I have never participated in compromises of the Rules of Procedure! ZANDA (PD). If you cannot give reciprocity, Senator Palma, you are wrong. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Please don't be a victim! ZANDA (PD). I shall conclude my speech. I would just add that frankly this climate that a part of this House is determining by its behaviour is not what we have all committed ourselves to creating, because we have all said that we want this measure. Some were more sincere than others! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini. Senator Palma's ironic applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u65	I see that no one is yet interested in what the Presidency can say, but the leaders have the right to speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u68	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I was hoping that Senator Zanda would throw water on the fire and, instead, today - I don't know why: he probably woke up badly - he thought of throwing gasoline on the fire. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli]] This is the second time that I happen to tell what happened in the group leader; frankly I thought it was a rite not to be repeated. Yesterday, the majority, that is, Senator Zanda, asked for the convening of the Capigroup to proceed with the'regulation' - I think it used this term - of the debate and for its continuation and, therefore, we have gathered. In the group leader, the main problem that has emerged, on which there has been absolute clarity, is that we should start voting next Tuesday. After that, we asked and reiterated, as we did in the past, that we did not want a drop point, a deadline or a trap to close the debate on the articles. We have asked in so many interventions of the so-called minorities, and also of a piece of majority that has become a minority in this case, that an image of the Palace be given outside in harmony with the country. In the country and in the squares there are millions of citizens of both sides. For once let us give an example of how in the Palace, in the Senate in this case, we compare the contents. So, dear Senator Zanda, there is no obstructive will of any kind. We only need to discuss the content. There is no point in you trying to provoke us today. I repeat: he must have woke up badly because on our part - we said it on more than one occasion - there has never been a will to obstruct. There is the will to conclude in the time that will be necessary the debate on a topic that is still controversial in the country and, therefore, is controversial also in the Senate. With clarity on the premise, I did not understand how we intend to proceed. Maybe it was my complete failure or my inattention. We also had the problem of another Parent Company who thought well to insult the whole class represented here and some Minority Leaders, and we had to ask the parent Barani to intervene in the Chamber, in a somewhat unformed way, apologizing to the Senate and the country for the words he said and perhaps this distracted us, since we went out when the parent Barani spoke at the Conference because we did not allow ourselves to listen to the words of a gentleman who says that in the bathrooms of this Senate there are about 60 senators who usually use drugs (he did, therefore, also this extraordinary interpretation of his abilities). In that confused place - I can allow you to do so - none of us understood that today was dedicated to the illustration of all the amendments. I do not return to the arguments put forward by Senators Mario Mauro, Giovanardi and Formigoni. How can we explain all the amendments today when we do not know which ones will actually be voted on? I asked the Offices for a correct interpretation of both the Report and paragraph 9 of Article 100 and asked for the precedents. The only precedent relates to the famous 85 million amendments tabled, i.e. when we were in full and absolute obstructive phase declared and clear that there is no such thing. I do not want to be here all day talking about the Rules of Procedure (this was exactly what we wanted to avoid), I want to talk about the content of the measure. It seems to me that there are many of us who did not understand exactly what seems to have been decided yesterday, but that it is contradicted by the Report which reports the words of President Grasso. Mr President, let us be brief: only the amendments to Article 1 will be presented today. We will finish at 11.30 a.m. instead of at 2.30 p.m., as perhaps someone had predicted, and then we will continue in another sitting, reaffirming the concept that we want to examine the measure without leghold traps and no fall points, but without wasting time. That's what we asked for. We have said this both in the Parent Company and in the unofficial meetings at which we have declared our willingness to withdraw the thousands of amendments (for example, from the Northern League Group) that are not within the reasoning I have allowed myself to make now and, therefore, we move forward in a virtuous way. Senator Zanda, do not provoke the House; it is useless to provoke it this morning: we do not fall into its provocation. We want to talk about the measure, but we do not want the regulation to be contradicted by a precedent which, by chance, is referred to a completely and exclusively obstructive phase. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. We will move forward and see that this House will respond to the desire to deal with the measure in question with serenity and calmness. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u71	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, I admit that I am a distracted Holding Company at the Conference of Leaders: I admit that I have had more than one opportunity to think that I have decided something in the Group Leaders and then to listen, when President Grasso from the Chair communicates the decisions of the Conference of Leaders, things that I believe are different from those I voted in that Chamber. So the proposal I am going to make at the next Conference of Leaders is to have a note in advance of what will be said later by the President in this House, so that we can decide whether to vote in favour or not. I will then ask the President to read in this Chamber exactly the note that will be voted on by the Conference of the Leaders, but this is because of my own problem, because perhaps I am actually the distracted person. Today, however, it seems to me that many of us were distracted. As President Paolo Romani rightly said, it was a group leader called at the last moment; there had been the Barani problem and a whole series of other topics on the table. But I remember one thing, ladies and gentlemen, and particularly my fellow Presidents: everyone has acknowledged that this measure is not being obstructed. Everyone has recognized this and I am sorry to see my fellow senators who were not present at the Conference of Leaders applauding President Zanda when he says that obstruction is taking place. The problem, Mr President, is that many of our fellow senators in there are not there and to see them applaud, not even knowing what we are talking about, makes us smile. Let me explain this to the senators who continue to applaud: at the Conference of the Leaders we placed ourselves in such a constructive and not obstructive way that, two Conferences of the Leaders did, the undersigned, not others (and the President remembers this), had proposed the quota of the times in general discussion. Is that true or not, ma'am? This was proposed by the undersigned, who is a member of the opposition, a member of the only movement and a parliamentary group which has expressly stated from the outset that this bill wants to bring it down. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] For us this bill must be withdrawn and we have said so from the beginning. But we want it to be withdrawn quickly, not by obstructing it, so that Parliament can be allowed to discuss serious matters and not stupid things, because we think this is stupid. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The moment Italy is in crisis and we have families that do not arrive at the end of the month, we allow ourselves to waste time talking about these stupidities. We are so convinced of what we say that we are relaunching the challenge, the same one I launched yesterday, but it was not accepted by the Democratic Party. We respect the gentlemen's pact: I withdraw 4,500 amendments at the moment, I come down now to withdraw them, and you call Senator Marcucci and ask him to withdraw his amendment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Malan]] Respect the gentlemen's pact, and within 24 hours, perhaps you'll vote on the bill. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that you do not know which side you are on, because every time we enter into negotiations to discuss the willingness to withdraw the amendments every time you raise the bar. If then gentlemen's pact has to be, I'm willing to respect it right now. If you are unable to comply with the gentlemen's pact, then the accusations of obstruction are returned to your side. Now applaud because you are the ones who are doing obstruction. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u74	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we do not think that when it comes to enlargement and the recognition of rights, this is stupid or absolutely secondary. [[Applause from Senators Fornaro and Simeoni]] Otherwise, we would be wronged by ourselves and also by the debate we have held, albeit with articulated positions, in these days. I would like to remind you very calmly that, in this House, together with the other opposition groups, we have asked how many times we have asked for the civil union measure to be included in the timetable, but the House has not approved our proposal on time. However, we know perfectly well that this measure has been examined by the Commission for months and months (for about nine months), so much so that yesterday, at the meeting of the Conference of the Leaders, on our part and also by the Leader of the 5 Star Movement, it was proposed to provide more days for the continuation of our work. I would like to remind you that yesterday, too, Senator Catalfo's proposal to convene the Senate on Monday and Friday was rejected by the Assembly. Senator Catalfo has put forward this proposal and we have voted for it and I say it to all my colleagues: you have to have intellectual honesty, even when you do battles. Today, therefore, there is a need to have much more time and work spaces for next week. The Conference of Leaders - I do not think I have heard any different voices - decided by a majority to concentrate work on Tuesdays, Wednesdays - even with an interruption in order to allow the communications of the President of the Council Renzi - until Thursday. So we are certainly beginning to vote at the sitting on Tuesday and, as far as I understand it, today is a day devoted to the illustrations of the amendments. At this point, I would like to repeat the reasoning I have made in the group leaders: I believe that in this House it is time to return to ordinary procedures, let us call them that. I have said this in relation to the various types of kangaroo amendments proposed and also in order to allow for orderly work: I say this once again in this House by appealing to try to find solutions which will make it possible to reduce the number of amendments considerably. Therefore, everyone can also articulate the illustration of the Article-by-Article amendments, but it seemed clear to me that today was devoted to the explanation of the amendments. I also think that it is serious and more orderly that there is an order in the explanation of the amendments and that is why I say that we must return to absolutely ordinary procedures. I say this because during the examination of constitutional reforms (not in the last part-session, but in the previous part-session) we were forced to explain the amendments at night, even in total loneliness, because this stage of our work is clearly considered to be almost useless practice. However, if we really intend to move forward in the work on the draft law, including by articulating the article by article illustration, this can be done today, because this was clear and, above all, it was also voted yesterday by the Assembly compared to the different proposal to have more days to work. It was very clear, at the same time as you voted, that today there would be an explanation of the amendments; so at least on Tuesday morning the House could have worked and the work continued (then you decided to continue on Tuesday afternoon). I believe that this decision can be articulated, but it was certainly clear that the illustration would take place within today's day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u77	CATALFO (M5S). Madam President, the 5 Star Movement has always said that the measure is as good as it is, so much so that we have not tabled any amendments, but we are certainly and will be careful to follow the whole debate in this House. I would not like today's debate on the timetable to be instrumental to each other, because no agreement has yet been reached on the thousands of amendments tabled. I would not like this to be a way of putting off the debate on the measure in this House. I remind all the group leaders that they were with me during the meeting that there was actually no unanimity, in the sense that I, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, did not approve the calendar, as I thought it might be a difficulty to face the debate in such a short time. I have therefore proposed, and I have also reiterated this proposal in this House, that we continue the debate even on the days not set out in the timetable, that is, Monday and Friday. I would remind you that, precisely because of the non-unanimity, there has been a vote in this House, requested by me, for the change in the timetable. In that vote, most of the House voted against. If by chance, despite the vote in this House and despite the Conference of Leaders, there are still difficulties with regard to the timing and the lengthening of the time, why doesn't anyone complaining ask for a Leader group to lengthen the time and to work on Mondays, Fridays, Saturdays and even Sundays? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u80	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, I am very pleased to be able to speak in succession after the speeches by Senators De Petris and Catalfo. I would like to point out - given that the premises are an obligation - that the Group I represent has tabled a few dozen amendments and that at last week's invitation it immediately responded, withdrawing also those few amendments which could be an obstacle to a smooth and regular debate in this House, with the vote on them. Fluid and regular, because I believe that this House deserves respect, as Senator De Petris very well recalled, to see its role in a calm and open-faced debate that responds to the country and responds to the need, rising from society, to see a whole world regulated and a range of rights that have been waiting for years for their regulation. It is very far from me the thought of wanting only to stand in the way of this debate. There are, however, some fundamental concepts that need to be reiterated, not only in the democratic debate that we are guaranteeing to the citizens in this House, but also in the truth without which we risk bringing into this House elements of subterfuge and obstruction, not so much to the adoption of the law, but also to the truth that we here in this House should discuss clearly. It cannot be said that the text of Senator Cirinna's bill today is what she has been for nine months in the Commission, because it is another text; and it is no coincidence that we arrive in this House without the mandate to the rapporteur. At yesterday's Conference of Group Leaders, you will certainly remember my speech, which, in any case, does not imply the possibility of arriving at this House, of explaining the amendments and of reaching a vote quickly, but only after the explanation which has to take place from the Rules of Procedure. In fact, the Regulation is not an abstraction, but it is the way in which we guarantee citizens, especially on issues that cross the consciences of society (and the squares have told us about this). We must come to the conclusion of this debate by following not a practice because we are bureaucratic, but by respecting those rules that allow all citizens to recognize themselves in the work of this House, with the different positions that the citizens have expressed, with the different positions of the public and also the many different positions represented in this House. But I adhere to the interpretation that my colleague Catalfo gave. I would not like anyone, particularly the majority party, to be here, with the excuse of trivial opposition, to support a delaying practice. [[Applause from Senator Volpi.]] On the other hand, we must quickly and quickly address the issues, because a civil, very civilized general discussion on this bill has ended, and today we are entering the heart of the issues: amendment by amendment, article by article, finally we are entering into the substance. We all agreed that there would be a group intervention which would explain the amendments to the entire article, and in fact, at 9.30 a.m. this morning, I came to the House precisely to do this service to democracy, to the citizens and finally to this House, and to illustrate that there are such changes in Article 1 that Article 2 will certainly be different, and Article 5 even more, if amendments are approved in Article 1. After that, beyond the political controversy (live God! This is the place in which we are confronted and therefore also at the risk of political controversy), the fact remains that the sooner we start and the sooner we finish. But this does not mean to innovate even on such a delicate issue, as you have already done on constitutional reforms, which are not the least issue. Here at stake are life, heart, feelings, the rights of people, citizens; in this case, innovations of kangaroos, please do not do them. Withdraw your kangaroos that choke the civil and democratic debate and others, as has already been said on several occasions (by the League's Parent Company, for example), they will withdraw their amendments, which you call obstructionist but which are instead the tools of democracy. I know that this democracy is ever closer to you; I know that you can no longer bear the constraints of democratic rules and procedures, which have accompanied the country so far, but make it right: this time, on this matter, democracy will win, the Italians will win. [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi, Rizzotti and Volpi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u81	We greet the students and students of the Istituto Superiore (Higher Institute), Lucio Lombardo Radice, Rome. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u84	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this debate is the result of the very special process that has taken place in relation to civil unions. I would remind Senator Zanda that in the Commission - I repeat - the time devoted to the examination of the amendments was on the whole (I think my calculation is very correct) of about twelve hours and the Commission did not proceed with particular calendar intensity, the calendar intensity to which Senator Catalfo often reminds us. Yesterday's decision, whatever it was, in any case involves non-secondary complications and above all is characterized by insufficient dialogue. Madam President, in the event that the debate on the individual articles and the whole explanation of the amendments take place in a compact manner before the individual amendments are put to the vote, I would appeal to you to make us aware of the ways in which this could be done without prejudice to the rights of individual Members. In this respect, I believe there is only one precedent, but there is an absolute sharing by all the Groups of the modes adopted in an extraordinary way. Even underestimating for a moment the absence of dialogue in a debate next to the vote, I think we cannot help but imagine that each Member is given the opportunity to speak on each article for ten minutes in order to explain the amendments tabled. It is not possible to bring this stage of illustration back to a single Group representative, because I believe that there can be a legitimate distribution of the task of explaining them among the authors of the various amendments. In addition, before moving on to the next article, there must be, in addition to the illustration, the general discussion phase, in which each Member of Parliament must be allowed to speak on that specific article with the overall considerations that he would like to make to the Assembly. Therefore, only after the amendment to Article 1 and the general discussion on Article 1 has been discussed can the same be done for Article 2 with regard to its illustration and discussion. We can only proceed in this way if the decision of the Leaders is interpreted in terms supported by Senator Zanda. It will not escape you or the House the complexity of this way of proceeding; a complexity also sad because it is clearly spoiled by a lack of dialogue because of the inevitable follow-up of the speeches and the context in which they will take place, that is, far from the moment of the vote. At a time when there is an uncommon sharing of this method, my advice would be to reconvene the Capigroup again to assess the most shared way of proceeding. In fact, as I said, if I am not mistaken and if my information is correct, there is only one precedent with these characteristics, but in that case they all shared them, precisely because it was an extraordinary procedure and contradictory with the letter and the spirit of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, you can make paths with these characteristics, but in a climate that can only be shared. This climate of sharing today is not there. We have not carried out any obstructive practice, because we want a comparison on the merits. From the outset we have tabled the amendments which are strictly necessary to bring the basic text back to our draft law. All the amendments are designed so that, through repeals and replacements, the basic text can be changed and transformed in order to bring it back to the text that we have long deposited. But how can we fail to understand the different attitudes of those - the Forza Italia Group and others - who, unlike us, have practiced a obstructive line? Of course, this text is not at all shared and it is not at all desirable that it be approved. Therefore, we seek to share in the way we proceed and do not add to the deep divisions of merit in this House also a dangerous division on the method, both to explain the amendments and to discuss each article.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u87	AUGELLO (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Madam President, I was very impressed - and I will come back to you at the end of my speech - by the way in which it was interpreted, at least on one side of the group leaders, this solution which is guiding our work quite uncertainly and which should condense the whole debate - if I understand correctly - on all the amendments in less than three hours. I was impressed by the way in which President Zanda really worked to complicate the situation. It seems to me, in fact, quite clear that there are only two possibilities. If we are in a hurry and think that time has been wasted, the amendments to Article 1 are put forward and we are beginning to vote on Article 1, which, however, I fear would cause some alarm at the moment in the same group as Mr Zanda. Or, if this is not the case, we are now going to explain the amendments to Article 1 and we are beginning to vote on Article Tuesday. The idea that, as we cannot yet vote on Article 1, we can get out of our minds the whole debate on the amendments in three hours, frankly it can also be proposed but, in essence, it must at least be proposed with caution. Our ancestors said, if you cannot be chaste, at least try to be cautious. I would add that, above all, it is feared, in the raid that President Zanda has made in this House, the speech addressed even to colleagues of the 5 Star Movement. Colleagues of the Democratic Party, I never listen to rumors in the corridors, but if it is remotely true that you are trying to prepare a kind of kangaroo for the third, in an Assembly where there is no rapporteur and no government, assembling among them amendments that cannot be reworded by Regulation and that, therefore, you are putting in place a trick that any opposition should never make pass as a precedent, at least be kinder to colleagues of the 5 Star Movement who must vote on this scam; be more cautious. I really cannot understand how we can intervene in this way on a subject of such delicacy and of such scope, which nevertheless divides the country, as we have seen, and sees it fatally much more attentive to the work of the Assembly than to those of the Commission which, moreover (as President Sacconi and, before him, the President of the Commission Justice) have not been technically obstructive. In fact, it is quite simply that the amendments have not been examined and, not by chance, there is an appeal pending before the Constitutional Court. In such a situation, certain cunning and certain tones seem frankly out of order to me. I want to conclude, Madam President, by trying to clarify a misunderstanding which I regret has happened. Some newspapers on the Internet as well as some national newspapers have reported the matter of our President, a little uncertain, who would have been called by me Don Abbondio. I apologise for the fact that this was simply a joke I made to my colleague Gaetano Quagliariello, who, at the end of the press conference, called for a jump by the President of the Senate to refer the text back to the Commission for examination, thus avoiding recourse to the Constitutional Court. I told him, then, joking: "Gaetano Quagliariello, it's as if you, devouring for the first time all the chapters of "The Promised Grooms," arrived at the last chapter, had the idea that Don Abbondio challenges to duel Don Rodrigo. It was simply to make fun of Quagliariello; it wasn't a very serious thing. So, if it was perceived in an unpleasant way, I'm sorry, but you don't have to be too touchy about these things either. Since we are, however, the metaphor comes about: I do not really know if the character of President Grasso is attributable to the Manzoni character of Don Abbondio (of course that of Renzi is related to Don Rodrigo), but today in this Chamber, colleagues of the Democratic Party, we have understood who is the leader of the good: President Zanda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u88	Maybe avoiding all these allusive metaphors would help us, but thank you. In the meantime, just for the sake of clarity with the House, I would like to inform you that there are precedents; it is not an innovation. A single debate on all the amendments took place at session No 512 of 29 September 2015 at the second reading of the reform of the constitutional text. However, the Presidency - and I say this for the debate I have heard - respects the Rules of Procedure on time and conforms to the decisions taken by the Conference of Leaders, confirmed by the vote of the Assembly, as communicated by the President of the Senate at yesterday's sitting. I'm gonna go read. The Conference of Leaders approved the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 25 February. Tomorrow's afternoon sitting - i.e. today - will be devoted to the illustration of the amendments to the draft law on civil unions, and therefore to the whole of the amendments... Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No, ma'am, it's not like that. [[Reiterate protests from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Giovanardi and Mauro Mario.]] In accordance with the provisions of the ninth paragraph of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that a single debate shall take place on all amendments tabled to the same Article, in which each senator may intervene only once, even if he proposes several amendments. What does this mean? That explains Article 1, then goes on to illustrate the 2, then the 3 and so on. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). It's not like that! [[Vivacious and repeated protests by the LN-Aut Group and Senators Mauro Mario and Giovanardi]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is This is what is established and read.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u89	We shall therefore proceed with the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 1. MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). You must have the courage to vote. Liars! [[Protests from LN-Aut groups and Senator Giovanardi.]] Mr Fornaro (PD). Stop it and have respect! You have to stop it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, colleagues, be quiet. Senator Giovanardi, please. I would ask the Quaestors to allow me to explain the amendments to Article 1. Please, Senator Cantini. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Do you not even allow a speech on the Rules of Procedure, Mr President? Sold her too! [[Protests from the PD Group]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please allow Senator Cantini to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u90	Madam President, I would like to outline, albeit briefly, Amendment 01.6000, which has been discussed and undoubtedly already mentioned on many occasions, because I am interested to look at the substance. We are interested in the merits of this measure. We have talked a lot about this in general discussion. We have tried, as a Group of the Democratic Party, in many speeches [[. (Some Senators of the LN-Aut Group repeatedly slap their hands on the benches. Senator Candiani stands with a copy of the Rules of Procedure in his hand. Lively protests from Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u91	I ask the senators of the North League to stop disturbing Senator Cantini. And I would remind the parent Centinario, who will shortly have the floor to explain his amendments to Article 1, that, if it is consistent, there will be a time for illustration. (Senator Centinario makes a gesture of denial at the address of the Presidency). Senator, I didn't understand if you just gave up the illustration or not. In any case, allow the senator who chooses to explain in this House the amendments to be able to do so. Please, Senator Cantini, I invite you to resume your illustration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u92	Madam President, as I was saying, in our innumerable speeches, as well as for the other groups, we have explained very well, and also in a broad way, the intentions that we intend to carry out with this bill. This amendment, so much mentioned and which I would urge everyone to read, in its simplicity basically lists all the rights that we intend to extend to those who, as we have said, still do not have them in Italy today. Italy that remains the only country not to recognize them, or is however very isolated compared to other countries in Europe. The amendment simply lists the subjects we are dealing with. Therefore, in fact, if we are going to read the amendment, it lists exactly the intentions that we have carried out in a broad way in the general debate, which, of course, retraced the Cirinna text, which has arrived in this House and which we have been discussing for days. Therefore, if we are to be on the substance, if we are, as we are going to, to vote on the amendments at the end of the illustration, on this amendment we will legitimately decide whether we are in agreement with the extension of rights to de facto couples, to couples for whom we are in favour of civil unions. Of course, the fundamental principles are summarised in this amendment and, of course, it will be up to each senator to decide which amendments will be foreclosed or which will be dismissed by the bill. It is the Presidency that decides this but, in my opinion, because of the modest experience I have gained in this House in three years, many will be the amendments that will remain alive. I say this because it is a general amendment. Many amendments can then be voted on, which will go from different positions to introducing and specifying how this right can actually be applied in the individual aspects of the amendment, including the subject, which is very much discussed in this House, concerning the adoptions of the partner's child. Other Senators in my Group will be presenting the amendments on this subject. I don't do it, even though I signed them (but the first signatory is Senator Lumia). Some amendments, such as those on Article 5, will clarify and make it clear that we can safely confirm the content of the Cirinna text, for example by specifying and clarifying that there is no automaticism once the request for adoption of the partner's child is made. This will, if necessary, be decided in a positive direction only after a series of actions well described in the amendment. This is just to say that every amendment, including this much discussed and which I am presenting today, is an amendment of substance. That is why it is pointless to discuss and take up the usual method, partly because the admissibility of the amendments is still decided by the Presidency and each of us respects its decision. We need to get to the bottom of this. What is so striking about this amendment? I don't want to read it, because I don't want to wrong anyone. This is the first amendment to the dossier: the dossier is very large, but - I repeat - the amendment is on the first page. Read the text of the amendment and you will see that it quite simply bears the basic principles that we are convinced must make law and, consequently, the acquired rights for citizens who do not have them today. Legitimately, we confirm these principles with all the amendments we have tabled to the text. Other amendments, on the other hand, come into the substance of the measure, also to clarify the aspects that have developed in the debate over the last few days and to confirm that the text under consideration is not only not armored, but open to discussion and any changes that we are prepared to vote on without, however, distorting the fundamental principles, which are fully understood in a simple and clear way in this amendment. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u93	I ask you to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u94	Senator Candiani, the Presidency gives the voice to everyone, but now we have begun the illustration of the amendments. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] I'll give you the floor later, Senator Candiani. I would ask Senator Malan if he would explain the amendments to Article 1. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] After Senator Malan has presented the amendments, it will be the Presidency that will decide when to give the floor. We are in the process of illustrating the amendments to Article 1. CANDIANS. I would like to speak on a point of order. Will you give me the floor? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, I invite you to sit down. It is on a point of order that you cannot deny me the floor! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, we are at the procedural stage of illustrating the amendments tabled to Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u97	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). The point of order prevails. Senator Candiani, then you talk. Madam President, I apologise, but - and I am very kind to you - it is useless for you to shake your hand at the point where we have arrived. There was clearly a misunderstanding about the interpretation of what was decided yesterday at the Conference of the Leaders. It is impossible to imagine that 100 senators, in the person of their group leaders, understood one thing and others exactly the opposite. The reference to Rule 100 (9) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate is also reiterated in the text that you have just read and we made it quite clear yesterday when we were talking about the debate and the explanation of the amendments. Senator Zanda, you yourself stated in your interpretation that all the amendments should be presented today and that next week we would just vote. There's been a misunderstanding all the way. Since we have stated on more than one occasion that we do not have any obstructive intentions, why should we force the hand today and force the House to examine amendments on which we probably will not be able to vote because we do not know their eligibility? We don't know if we're going to vote by secret vote, we don't know anything. Let's throw away a day talking about nothing. I would ask you, Madam President, to let President Grasso know that there was a problem with what was decided yesterday: we did not understand what he intended to decide. The reading of the text is not entirely correct in its interpretation. I therefore ask that today we confine ourselves to the explanation of the amendments to Article 1. We have reiterated on more than one occasion that we will not obstruct in the days to follow, so much so that we have not opposed the continuation of the debate on the amendments throughout the day, providing only for a technical interruption, as long as it is necessary. Is it possible that today you are forcing us to do something on which, clearly, we do not agree and on which, clearly, we are telling you that there has been a misunderstanding? Don't do it. Proceed on the virtuous path that we have proposed to you and today, in the remaining time, explain the amendments to Article 1, and then start voting on them next week. You will see that, with reference to the following articles, there will be discussion only on the true contents of the measure. If you force your hand, you will force us to react. Each action corresponds to an equal and opposite reaction, someone said, and so avoid this. Don't do it. There has been a clear misunderstanding and so we can also agree. It is useless now to take the cards and want to force the hand. President, be wise.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u98	Senator Paolo Romani, I hope that wisdom is a little of everyone. Meanwhile, as you know, the Presidency reads the minutes of what has been decided. It is no coincidence that if the general will of this House, like everyone else - and I stress everyone - is to want to continue, we will continue with the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 1 and see where we are going. Senator Paolo Romani, it is clear that everyone is listening, including the President. Let us move forward and show everyone that we want to continue with the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u99	Madam President, I would like to explain the amendments and agendas that I have tabled to Rule 1, meaning that, especially on the agendas, there must be an opinion on the part of the representative of the Government, since we do not have a rapporteur. In fact, even if we continue to say that there is a rapporteur, there is actually no majority choice. There is a video of Mr Scalfarotto saying that it was a choice of the Democratic Party not to have a rapporteur. Therefore, the rapporteur is not present, but there is a mandatory representative of the Government who can also turn to the House on the amendments as he usually did in the Commission, but on the agendas he will have to give an opinion. Since we're talking about agendas, I want to say something about those. I have presented some of them, together with President Gasparri, to reaffirm certain principles because the norms contained in this law touch extremely sensitive issues concerning the family, the education of the offspring, the relationship between parents and children and the relationship between parents and children in front of the State. There are some agendas which, however, in a very similar form, have been incredibly rejected in the Commission and among them the one which commits the Government not to violate the fundamental rights recognised by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights such as the freedom to manifest its religious values in education and the right of priority of parents in the education to be given to their children and others similar to this. Why do these agendas have anything to do with this bill? Because if this bill passes, there will be children who will be children of two women or two men and the famous gender education (I use this word because synthetic and widespread use), that is that according to which there is no difference between male and female because they are questionable issues, passing and with a thousand nuances, it will become almost an obligation in schools because it will be necessary to explain why some children have two fathers or two mothers and therefore it will be necessary to explain lies that children are not born from a man and a woman but from the affection of two people. It's not like that! Sure, it's better if there's affection. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u100	Excuse me, Senator Malan, it's important that you listen. I ask the House to lower its voice, not least because there are not many of you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u101	Please, Senator Malan. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, President. So it is important to establish that in this context, in the strong social change, I would say anthropological mutation that is intended to be created in the family and in society through this bill we must understand what are the boundaries for which the government representative's position on these amendments will be very important. Another agenda commits the Government to prevent the preparation of school, administrative and didactic modules: "in key of social inclusion, respectful of the new family realities constituted also by homosexual parents" which are words contained in the national strategy for the prevention and the contrast of discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity; document that bears the signature of the Government but that I know that many in the Government do not share. The government, then, must express itself a good time, since for two years it has not answered my questions on this subject, if this horrendous document that is the national strategy for prevention proposes - as the document says - to change the way of expressing itself not only of the representatives of public bodies but, even, of ecclesiastical representatives. We return to the emperor who wants to impose his law on religious confessions. I want to know in this context - here we have a very precise connection - what the government's position is. On the other hand, there are several amendments aimed at including in this bill, in the form of a premissive article, an additional paragraph or in other technical forms, the clarification that the institution of civil unions is not considered family or marriage. As I explained yesterday, unfortunately, marriage has all the characteristics. The articles cited in the first part of this bill are not only related to marriage (Article 29 of the Constitution), but there is not one that can be referred to any of the social formations referred to in Article 2, to which the President appealed not to allow the secret vote. I remember that Article 29 of the Constitution speaks not only of marriage, but also of family. When, then, with this bill, one claims or wishes - we use a neutral word - to say that the family are also two men and two women, one goes to touch on article 29, however, even if you do not call it marriage, but civil union. You can call it with an initial, with a number that you like and that comes to mind, but according to this bill it is still family. How, then, can one say that he is not a family? It says so. You can say it's not marriage because you don't call it that, but civil union. But when it is said that it is family; it is family. You were wrong. In the context of the scams you had to replace the word "family" with another word "scam" because, by chance, the word "family" is in the Constitution. Therefore, with these amendments I would ask that it be made clear in this draft law that this is not a family because there is a problem. If someone thinks that taking this bill and removing Article 5, which is the one concerning adoption, then ensuring that civil unions are not assigned adoptions, it means that they do not know the jurisprudence in Italy and abroad and that they have not listened to all the audit experts in the Justice Commission, both those who in their hearts are in favour of adoptions by same-sex couples, and those who are against it. Everyone has said that if a rule is produced that essentially equates that marriage to marriage it will end up being assigned adoptions. There is also this clarification in my amendments. Do we want to be serious or do we just want to be hypocritical? If we want to be hypocrites, let's go on like this. If this bill goes on without Article 5, the adoptions for same-sex couples, the uterus for rent, the exploitation of women and the commodification of children will be there. [[Applause from Senator Scilipoti Isgrò.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u102	We greet the students and students of the Institute including Ferruccio Ulivi in Poggio Nativo, in the province of Rieti. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u103	Madam President, we have tabled a number of amendments and, if the President grants me that, I might be able to explain them all. We believe that these amendments have the objective of introducing necessary measures into this draft law. As we have repeatedly said in general debate - I am trying to make a premise that applies to all the amendments - we believe that civil unions can and should be regulated, but the proposed bill provides for an installation which, in our opinion, is absolutely unacceptable. For this reason, in particular in relation to Article 1, we have proposed a series of amendments aimed at defining and reaffirming the concept of family, which is presented not only in the view of the North League, but also in the light of what is deduced and crystallized in Article 29 of our Constitution. So we believe that any intervention made in relation to the discipline of civil unions cannot and should never be confused or superimposed on the discipline that concerns marriage. What the bill did instead is to make calls, using the method (which, among other things, as a legal technique creates not a few problems) of mere postponement, when it could well be established a set of rights, duties and possibilities resulting from a discipline and the prediction of an institution such as that of civil unions. We have said - and we have made it clear in all the amend ments to Article 2 - what we mean and what we would suggest as the discipline, prediction and definition of civil unions. In doing so, we have tried above all to reaffirm a concept that is absolute for us, that of the intangibility of the principle that the family is a natural society founded on marriage. And when we say "natural society" we mean an institution that is pre-existing under the same law: it is the core and main base of our society and our civilization, because before we are citizens of a municipality, before we are citizens of a region, before we are citizens of a state, before we are participants of an association or of being students of a school, we are a part of our family. And it is in that family that in the very first years of life we are forged. For this reason we believe that normative interventions should not and absolutely cannot affect the sacred value of the family. Or at least - and we say this in a somewhat provocative way in some of the amendments - if you intend to adopt a rule such as this on civil unions then, for the entry into force of civil unions, let us go through the necessary revision of the Constitutional Charter and the amendment of Article 29. This must be done - as we have proposed in our amendments - by constitutional law and by means of a referendum against which the whole Italian population must be called to express itself, on what is a feeling - it is perceived - spread to all our fellow citizens. In fact, we are not talking about a rule or discipline that concerns a niche. We are talking about a subject that has raised awareness throughout Italy and in this way must be treated and must be involved throughout Italy. You cannot assume a power, although elected to represent the people, that can go beyond what is the feeling of the Italians. The feeling of Italians - we are convinced - is still that of a special protection of the family and an absolute protection against children and minors. An argument like that of adoptions has been affected, in its very birth, in this bill, without having opened a discussion. We reiterate this: there have been some room for discussion in the Committee on Justice, although not exactly on the text presented to this House, but without ever involving the discipline of adoptions. We cannot intervene with a mere and simple article on a discipline such as that concerning the adoptions of minors. For this reason, we would like to refer to the amendments we have tabled, both in Article 3 and in Article 5 of the draft law. Here we shall be discussing another point, which as a North-League Group we wanted to make through a series of amendments which introduce a very serious problem. Since we are talking about family, we do not want to be overwhelmed by mere ideologies, which unfortunately go to pollute the same work that is done here: these are ideologies and, unfortunately, media pressure. When we talk about family, we don't want to do it to fill our mouths, with hypocrisy, or maybe making us bearers of something that can only be read as a legacy of an old society. We believe that the family is absolutely fundamental and for this reason we have proposed a series of amendments with which to open a debate on the interventions that should be done, in order not only to protect the family, by appealing to the intangible Article 29 of the Constitution, but in order to facilitate and strengthen the very value of our family and the possibility that families live and exist. We are experiencing a problem of the birth of our people, in the face of large migrations, such as those that occur in this historical period, in which we witness the movement of entire peoples from one geographical area to another. At the same time, we are in a society in which it is difficult to have children, to raise them and to cure them. At a time of crisis, it seems difficult for a household to cope with the necessary costs. In this sense, we have tabled amendments which seek to introduce a reflection on measures which may constitute support, solicitation or facilitation, so that the family can exist and feel strong and protected, so that parents who feel alone, in society, with their children, are not seen. For these reasons, for example, we have put forward proposals suggesting the development of public housing plans, which already exist but which need to be increased, bearing in mind that often, in the logic of assignments, there are problems. Unfortunately we hear this and it is a question on which we often reason: in the attribution of the people's house we often look at the income index and it happens very often - even in the province of Vicenza, from which I come - that many popular accommodations are assigned to foreigners. We therefore propose incentives for the purchase or rental of real estate units used at first home, for the increase of the market of the same rentals for residential use and also the possibility of granting loans with preferential rates for young married couples - we have also included the forecast that they are married for a minimum of time, as one, two or three years - and that they also have children. We have also envisaged the possibility of a monthly contribution, of variable amounts, for each child under the age of three, because children are a wonder, they are a great gift, but sometimes also a cost. We have also included "good family" cards for access to early childhood services. This "good family" card should allow resources to be used for agreed early childhood services. Another part that we believe is absolutely fundamental - we have also made one of our campaigns - is the one that provides for kindergartens, because the latter unfortunately have costs. We believe that kindergarten must be a structure and that is why we have proposed a real reordering of the territorial system of social and educational services for children, where parents (unfortunately, because they have to work) can leave the children to go to work. We have provided that these structures are absolutely free and that, among the various requirements necessary to be able to enjoy this facility, there must be a continuous residence of the family in the territory. We demand that there be active participation of the parental network in order to achieve educational objectives, because it is absolutely not necessary that kindergarten, being free, be seen as a form of parking for children. Instead, we want parents to be called on to actively monitor the development and care of their children. We have also envisaged the possibility of additional services (of nests) in the workplace. There are companies that, at an individual level, have been active in order to have this type of structure and also some administrations have done so. This is really fundamental and important and for this reason we have put forward the proposal that the Regions and the Municipalities should promote the activation of supplementary services for kindergartens, diversified by structural modalities or whatever, in order to allow there to be a continuous service for working women, since this is a subject that is being followed and that is creating a particular sensitivity to our fellow citizens. Surely today there is a change in the father's participation in child care. It was once thought to belong only to the mother. Instead today there are many fathers who have the need and the duty (it is right) to follow their children. This is in our perspective that a child must have a dad and a mom. There are a number of amendments which are mainly deleted. It is regrettable that we have had to table amendments that have been deleted, but we believe that this type of wording is absolutely unacceptable. We have put forward proposals to find an alternative solution, because we believe that this should not be the case. The header, from the beginning, wanted to be perhaps too exposed; there were different possibilities to address the issue. From this it is understood that the motivation behind this discipline of civil unions is not simply to regulate relationships in the homosexual couple; the objective is to get to the adoptions of children, which, in our opinion, must not be done at all. This is not the time and this is not the mode. Allow me to refer to the Marcucci amendment. I know that I am not in an explanation of vote, and I will repeat these things here too. This amendment is intended to go even further than the text of the draft law. A text such as the one proposed by Senator Marcucci is not even disciplined: it contains an absolutely smoky argument, which will create many problems in the practice and application of the same law. Do I still have time, Madam President? I'll give you some more time. You also have yours, as well as everyone you're illustrating. STEFANI (LN-Aut). I don't understand. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm giving you three more minutes, since you have a series and then you also have those at your first signature 1,2800 and 1,2801. STEFANI (LN-Aut). I would like to take this opportunity to complain about the layout of the list of amendments, which does not even have a progressive numbering. It is absolutely impossible for me to find my own amendments and to be able to examine them. I do not know at the voting time what a climate will be created. In some of the amendments we have proposed, there is no desire to create stakes or forms of obstruction to the amendment of the rules, as we have also said in general debate. The decision of the Constitutional Court n. 138 of 2010 has reiterated several times that when the Constitutional Assembly provided for constitutional norms it certainly referred to an existing society at that time and probably our constituent Fathers did not yet imagine that we could get to discuss a homosexual marriage. The decision of the Constitutional Court is fundamental at the point where it says that, although there is no absolute cementification of the customs, which certainly change in a society that varies, it must never affect the substantive content of the constitutional norm. We believe that all the rules of the Constitutional Charter which provide for the principle that the family and the protection of the child are fundamental cores of our society cannot be modified by the customs and customs and by changes in our society. If this is to happen, then the Constitutional Charter must be amended and not done by a simple ordinary law. We, as a Group, certainly do not intend to be dormant on matters which, as I said before, can be treated as hypocrisy or regiments or old-fashioned minds. We have put forward proposals which we consider to be very serious and which we are introducing here, although they are not the natural place to do so; we have also talked about the issues of pre-adoptive custody and adoption procedures. This is not the place, it should not have been the place to talk about adoptions, but since you wanted to talk about it, we wanted to introduce amendments which mean: instead of talking about the adoption of the spouse's child or the problem of adoption in the broad sense, why not talk about the major problems that concern adoption procedures? There are thousands of children who need a family all over the world, for there are areas plagued by problems of poverty, misery, terrible wars, where children are found who lose both parents, their entire family. And let's think about all those families and all those parents who would love to be able to welcome these children into their homes and give them that family that they never had. The discipline of adoption has always been justly rigorous, precisely in order to protect the child in particular; and all checks, even heavy, are made on the same suitability as parents. What you want to do now with this bill is basically to make the verification of the suitability of parents more superficial. The suitability of parents must be particularly verified, because if there is a possibility that a child may have a family, it is right that that family is healthy and that it actually allows him to overcome his personal drama of abandonment. To this end, we have tabled a series of amendments calling for an acceleration, without any lack of guarantees, of the pre-adopting custody procedures. I would ask you to consider these amendments. Surely we will have to talk about this when we talk about adoptions in relation to the rules that deal with it. We are asking and continuing to insist that this rule should not be talked about and should not be introduced in a subject such as this. We really must have a great sense of responsibility. In order to illustrate the other amendments, I reserve the right to speak again when I have the floor and on the next article. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] 11:45 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u106	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, as we pointed out in the general debate, the first three articles are decisive for the qualification of this measure. These are the articles, starting from the first one whose amendments I intend to present to my signature, which define the ways in which stable partners can regulate relations between them and, according to the basic text, do so through a publicly relevant institution, which can be opposed to third parties, with characteristics that we can call similar marriages. This is precisely why our amendments have the opposite aim of bringing civil unions back to the premises of the premise referred to in Article 1, to that specific social training, which is also formally referred to, while denying it with the characteristics assigned to civil unions. I repeat once again that if Article 1 and then Articles 2 and 3 were adopted in accordance with the basic text, all subsequent examination of the measure would lose its meaning. As my colleague Mr Malan said a moment ago, the same article 5, so emphasized in reality, once approved Article 3, and in particular its fourth paragraph, in the terms of the basic text, would no longer have meaning because the special adoption, the adoption of the stepson, is already explicitly mentioned in that place; moreover, I must say that even the much desired qualification of the uterus for rent, the hateful practice of surrogacy as a universal crime loses meaning at the time when the similar definition of civil unions reasonably allows couples so united to generally access the system of adoptions with the implicit incentive to the production of children through those techniques that allow a procreation independent from the natural affective relationship between a man and a woman. We therefore propose to Article 1 both the repeal of the same and the repeal together with Article 1 of the following 9 articles, with the aim of bringing the text back to our draft law, that unique text of the rights of the cohabitants that the two manifestations of the Family Day have assumed as a proposal of reference to contrast it with that of the bill to which Senator Cyrinna is first signatory. At the same time, we have assumed a replacement of this article 2, so that the rights of the cohabitants may be granted instead of the rights associated with the civil-united couple, precisely to ensure at the root the separation between this regulation and that of the institution of the family based on marriage, as referred to in Article 29 of the Constitutional Charter. Such separation is not guaranteed by this Article 1; the obvious unconstitutionality of the measure is not guaranteed by Article 1. Known as all the amendments tabled by the Democratic Party do not contribute in any way to the distinction between civil unions and marriage. There have been comments attributed to the Presidency of the Republic; I do not know if this corresponds to the truth, but it is certain that these observations have repeatedly identified in the basic text grounds for the unconstitutionality and proximity of the regulation of civil unions to the matrimonial institution. With these characteristics - I repeat - the text would therefore be configured in terms of absolute unconstitutionality and, for our part, would result in the inexorable vote against; and not only: it would also lead to all the actions that, in the unfortunate case of its approval, we could take, also to allow the popular expression in front of such a divisive text. Its divisive character begins precisely from Article 1, in the so-called flaw of the reference to the social formations contained therein and, therefore, from Article 2 of the Constitutional Charter; in no way does it remove the divisive character. I repeat how tearing the Nation this season is a political error, which takes away the vision of the leaders who take responsibility for it, which leads to underestimate the seriousness of a break relative to the very principles on which this Nation has formed; a laceration that begins with this text of Article 1 and which is exalted, then, in subsequent Articles 2 and 3. With this I repeat the conclusion, addressing the many distracted observers who insist on going to talk about Article 5: if the text were approved in the terms known in Articles 1, 2 and 3, the division would already have been produced and the tearing of society - and I also believe in political relations - would already have been accomplished.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u107	Mr President, I am going to speak in this deaf Chamber: there are very few colleagues. I do not hide my doubts about this day and the management of the whole measure, in general. I think it is clear to everyone that we have wanted to bring a debate about values in a country where, for years now, muscle bipolarism has been present. It seems to me that, however, we do not want to get out of this hypocrisy; we continue to be in it, probably to seek our affirmation. I therefore take the floor in this House to explain my amend ments to Article 1, starting with amendment 1,6002, which calls for the deletion of Chapter I of the provision, which, apart from any other argument, in fact leads to the substantial legal equivalence of civil union between persons of the same sex with the institution of marriage. Some might see a position of this nature as provocative; it is not, but it is the need to rectify a path that, from pure regulation, becomes unconstitutional equivalence. It should be a priority and transversally shared thing. In fact, the provisions of the Civil Code relating to marriage are almost entirely extended to civil unions, as Article 3 clearly points out. Of course, apart from the rules laid down in Law No 184 of 1983 on adoptions, it is a pity that the provisions on adoptions in particular cases are then waived. Now, while I agree with the need to intervene in order to guarantee rights - and I have never failed to highlight this urgency - this requirement does not need a substantial equivalence which, in fact, except for its name, the text under consideration provides for. On the desire to discuss and intervene to guarantee rights, we all agree; on how to do this, let us discuss it, but unfortunately I do not feel that there is a need to be or are the conditions for dealing with this issue in a mature way. The specificity of marriage as constitutionally defined as a union between a man and a woman is not discrimination but the recognition of a reality that precedes the rule of law as a natural society. This specificity is clearly recalled in the judgment of the Constitutional Court no. 138 of 2010 - mentioned already by many colleagues - in which the Court expressly recalled some fundamental elements that I want to recall here: the constitutional importance attributed to the family and the potential procreative goal of marriage, which is worth distinguishing it from homosexual union. This is stated in the judgment, also specifying that, with reference to Article 3 of the Constitution, the censored legislation of the civil code which, for the above mentioned, exclusively covers marriage between man and woman, cannot be considered illegitimate on the constitutional level. This is because it is based on Article 29 of the Constitution, and because the legislation itself does not give rise to unreasonable discrimination, since homosexual unions cannot be regarded as homogeneous to marriage. That is what the Constitutional Court says, gentlemen. I do not say that and it is not the subject of interpretation. In recent days there is a tendency to reinterpret - we are doing this in many cases - depending on the mood of the moment, the ratio of sentences. This means that there is no discrimination in place that requires the approval of a union between persons of the same sex to marriage. The Court itself recalled that the right to live as a couple is one of the individual freedoms referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution, and it is in that direction that it must be declined. Moreover, it is still the Court that says that European legislation does not require full equality of the rules for marriages between men and women to homosexual unions. Among other things, there is a risk of neglecting the potential in terms of the reconfiguration of adoptive parenthood that will result from the approval of civil union and marriage, in the event of the intervention of the European Court of Human Rights, of which it is not difficult to imagine a future pronunciation. A theme too delicate and with serious implications to make it a trivial ideological exploitation, because the child's right to have a family comes into question, to know his own roots and to be able to count on the stability of relationships and on the sacred and inescapable complementarity of a mother and a father. A necessity recognized by an entire tradition of studies and researches of evolutionary psychology. Here we do not intend to discuss, in a totally useless way, the ability or not of the subjects to be parents or the desire to be parents; both elements that do not cling to the legislative scenario. What must be prominent, without whether or not but, are the objective needs of minors, who certainly need love - which everyone knows how to give - but not only: they also need something else. On this basis, I call for the deletion of Article 1 and the repeal, therefore, of the total equivalence. I would also like to point out that our national legislation already provides a great deal of protection in relation to stable living conditions. However, these safeguards are sown in so many different laws and therefore the legislation is fragmented and certainly deserves an organic harmonisation - which we should have done - that could and can be defined through a single text on cohabitations. This is what we have proposed with the unique text on de facto unions presented by Senator Sacconi: this is our goal. The amending proposals that I have tabled and which will follow are precisely in the perspective of harmonisation, without creating ex-novo disciplines without the most basic constitutional and fundamental logics. The other amendments tabled to Article 1 are 1.6019, 1.6027, 1.6038 and 1.6039. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u108	Mr President, the inconsistencies in the draft law in question have already emerged from these initial lines. I draw by law that we, evidently, with a non-obstructionist attitude, are determined to change in full. I repeat that this is a non-obstructionist attitude because I want to remind this House, the Presidency but also the Government, which is very attentive to what is happening in this House, that the People's Area Group had initially tabled a very large number of amendments. Then, appreciating the demands from other parties, and in particular from the Democratic Party, to clear the field of misunderstandings, it significantly reduced the number of amendments tabled, reducing them by more than 50%. I would just like to remind you that, as far as we are concerned, we are not in a obstructive position. We've reached this point by now. We do not like the text, because we believe that rules and regulations have been violated. We do not like it because we are fundamentally convinced of the unconstitutionality and numerous inconsistencies contained in the text. We had asked, and I had spoken on behalf of the Group, to suspend the examination of the measure for a new examination, albeit at a predefined time, in the Justice Commission. Today we are at this point, and it is therefore right that the House should discuss the substance of the matter. In dealing with the substance of the matter, in order to move immediately to the subject of the amendments to Article 1, I must immediately say that, as far as we are concerned, not only Article 1, but all Articles 1 to 10 should, in our opinion, be dismissed. An amendment to this effect, of which I am also a signatory, explains this concept. And this is explicit because our position has always been, consistently, to find a solution to the discipline of cohabitations, both heterosexual and homosexual, establishing exactly rights and duties, towards third parties and society, but also towards themselves. Evidently, however, our understanding was - and it is - that we strongly oppose the homologation of civil unions with the institution of marriage and especially with the configuration of the family as laid down in Article 29 of the Constitution. On this line and on this director we moved. And we have moved not only in a preventative way, but also in a proactive way, so much so that our parliamentary group has long tabled a bill, at the first signature of Senator Sacconi, which regulates the whole issue. In order to get to the substance of Article 1, I must also explain why we fundamentally do not agree with it. Article 1 states that: The provisions of this Chapter shall establish civil union between persons of the same sex as specific social training. First of all, we want to delete the definition of civil union as a specific social formation, because we do not understand the ratio of identifying civil union as a specific social formation, because it can generally fall within all social formations protected and guaranteed by our Constitutional Charter, without specific characterizations. Other amendments tabled, again in Article 1, point out that the text of the measure should aim at protecting the individual rights and duties of the two cohabiting adults, regardless of whether they are heterosexual or homosexual. This is our correct declination, inter alia, in accordance with Article 3 of the Constitutional Charter. Differentiation of protection according to sexual orientation may result in indirect discrimination of cohabiting heterosexuals. Moreover, the emphasis is on the rights of the individual and not of the couple. In the historical-liberal conception there is the individual as the bearer of interests and not the couple or society. Other amendments tabled by us to Article 1 specify that the prerequisite for the creation of new social training is the continuation of coexistence, which has lasted for at least a few years, especially in the presence of common children. This, among other things, would allow to avoid the constitution of civil unions of convenience, fiction and with intents of mere opportunism, something that is not new in our country and that those who have studied the literature of the twentieth century can be represented in the beautiful comedy of Pirandello "Pensaci, Giacomino!." This is our position, which is strictly constructive. Taking advantage of the time of my speech, I would like to address the whole House, but in particular to the Senators of the Democratic Party. When you are part of a majority and, above all, when you drive a country, you have an interest in looking for points of unity and never points or divisive situations. The ridge you are walking today is slippery, very dangerous and is absolutely aimed at division. With regard to the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC), we have put forward concrete proposals that can give answers to all heterosexual and homosexual couples (let's do this not only in the political debate, but also through the tabling of amendments). However, as far as we are concerned, certain points are insurmountable limits: I am referring to type approval with the family institution and the issue of the adoption of children, with all the consequences that result. We do not want to escape the issue of adoptions, but we believe that the field of adoption is an integral change to the adoptions legislation. Since there is still a margin of time and reflection, let us take advantage of it to find points that can be shared and contribute to the formation of a law that gives answers that individuals - perhaps even society, I do not question - wait and do not aim for anything else. Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion. What we fear is that the intention of a part of the Democratic Party and of this House is completely different, and the debate that has taken place over the past few weeks on the media and television shows this. Evidently, there is the intention of an absolutely minority part in the country to use this measure as a lump to arrive at the establishment of new models and family examples and the construction of a new man who does not have in his genesis a father and a mother. I believe that all Members of Parliament have today received a very heartfelt letter, but very timely and well done, from the Association of Parents and Friends of Homosexual Persons (AGAPO), which specifies exactly this. We also read the articles that appeared in the newspapers today. In particular, there is an article appearing on the front page of the newspaper "Libero" signed by Maurizio Belpietro. I personally do not like to talk about particular cases that concern individuals, because, being of Catholic origin and culture, I do not share the mistake - I am ready to fight against error - but I have a different attitude towards those who, from my point of view, are wrong. That is quite understandable. The problem is not only of journalists who today bring out certain particular situations, but above all of those who overexposed themselves, perhaps because they are motivated by a particular interest. Mr President, this issue is absolutely delicate and can be divisive. A solution could also lie in being more of a wide sleeve in interpreting our Regulations and correctly. I take it upon you, President Calderoli, to speak with the President of the Senate to resume the path of secret votes, which on such a sensitive and conscientious subject could allow us to find a path and a path of greater sharing. Alas, that was not the case. I don't want to bother Manzoni and Don Abbondio, I don't want to bother Pilate, of which I have already spoken in my speech in the general debate, but unfortunately - and I say this time not as a senator but as a Sicilian and with a bit of displeasure - I am forced to share (and I didn't want to do so) the thought and judgment of Pietrangelo Buttafuoco on our current President of the Senate. I want to refrain from reading the chapter that dedicates to President Grasso Pietrangelo Buttafuoco in "Buttanissima Sicilia" but, evidently with the heart that drowns with blood, I am forced this time to say that, alas, perhaps Pietrangelo Buttafuoco is right. (President, I see you have not read it, it will be my care to give you the book, if you are not offended. The book is also available via the Internet, so you can read it). Mr President, let us interpret this message and send it to the President of the Senate, so that President Grasso not only uses his prerogatives but also exalts his role, which is to seek the right mediation in the times, in the ways and, why not, also in the content. This is, from my point of view, the role that corresponds to the word "arbitrator". The Presidents of the Senate of the past, I think of Spadolini and many others, on absolutely thorny and particular issues would not be limited to making notaries of something decided by others, nor would they have entrusted to the Leaders, even in the majority, mediations, neither on the times, nor on the ways. I believe that this is not only a violation of the rules of play and practice, but also a bad page and not only for people but also for institutions in general. [[Applause from Senator Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u109	Mr President, first of all I should like to say that I am pleased that representatives of the LGBT world are also present in the gallery, but they are a little less so when they provoke and try to kiss each other. And that applies to men, but it would also apply between men and women, because I think... Mr Albano (PD). But what's the problem? CARDINALI (PD). That's enough! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, we are in the process of illustrating the amendments. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Excuse me, but these things have been addressed to me and the parliamentary assistant is due to... [[Senator De Petris' comments.]] CARDINALI (PD). But you're obsessed! You must be respectful! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, you must address the Presidency. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). President. - I have said that I am pleased that they are present in the gallery and follow our work. But when the parliamentary assistant has to intervene because they kiss to provoke the senators, he is right to do so, because we need decorum in this House! [[Comments from PD and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u110	Colleagues! There are parliamentary assistants who are in charge of the forums. We follow the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u111	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). And I thanked the parliamentary assistant who intervened when the provocation was... CARDINALI (PD). But you have to intervene! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, if Senator Giovanardi does not transcend, he has the right to say what he wants, excluding what is not part of the management of the Rules of Procedure or the forums. [[Comments from PD and Mixed-SEL Groups.]] Mr Fornaro (PD). You can't offend the public! GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). If they agree that two men come to the stand and kiss to provoke the Senate, I say it is not decent! It has happened and I thank the parliamentary assistant who has spoken. And I think the Italians who listen to me understand what I mean. [[Comments from PD and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u112	Let us now talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u113	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Having said that, we come to Article 1 which - it is said - is a specification of homosexual unions man-man and woman-woman framed in a specific social formation. Meanwhile, I would like to understand the speeches of so many PD senators when they were scandalized saying that it is offensive to call social formations civil unions between two men and two women. It is written "specific social formation" because the Constitutional Court has told us that marriage - and, therefore, the family as a natural society founded on marriage - is exclusively between man and woman and the other rights must be framed between social formations. I would therefore like to understand the many senators who have accused this diction of offensively of what they want: whether I agree with the text, which has never been discussed in the Commission, which has been presented to the House or whether they interpret these social formations as a marriage. What are the social formations mentioned in the Constitution that I have repeatedly recalled? Article 2 of the Constitution is very clear and says that the Republic guarantees the individual rights of both individuals and social formations where their personalities take place. Did this article enter the Constituent like this? Absolutely not. The Constituent had entered with the following text: "The Republic guarantees the individual rights of the individual and the social formations in which their personality develops." Aldo Moro, who was not the last arrived, along with Amintore Fanfani, to Nilde Iotti - perhaps once, on the left, there were women who thought differently from you, I imagine, and also great characters - and Amendola, another great character of that world, presented an amendment that was approved and that said not: "the rights of individuals and social formations" but: "the rights of individuals in social formations." And Moro explained for his part - reread his speech to the Constituent, which you can find anywhere on the Internet - that you could not recognize legal personality to the union as the holder of individual rights or to the party or association. But we can recognize the guarantee of the rights of individuals who are part of social training. Therefore, when we talk about a specific social formation, it is mandatory to understand that rights must refer to the individual components of the union, because the trap that we all know is that, if this constitutional principle is removed and the rights of the couple are spoken of, it is clear that such social formation will be equal to marriage. Europe has told us a million times that we are very free to regulate family law as best we can. If, however, we recognize not the rights of individuals in the couple - and, that is, a function as many say, that would then be a family - but the right to social formation as such, it is evident, precisely, that the latter will be equal to marriage. And, therefore, adoptions will be allowed, the possibility of having children and, that is, all that 80% of Italians, and even the majority of this House, say they do not want, including the President-in-Office of the Council. How, then, does one get out of this contradiction of Article 1? It comes out in one way: clarifying what we want to do. In December SEL and PD exulted because Greece, after the last two beatings taken with gay marriage (in Slovenia, after a referendum, the law was rejected with 64 percent of the votes and also in Croatia a referendum rejected the law by an overwhelming majority), passed a law to that effect. In Europe it is said that Italy is the last country without a law on the matter, and instead 12 European countries do not provide any regulation and there are 180 in the world that have no regulation and not even want to introduce it. In any case, they exulted because Greece - I am talking about Tsipras who is in the government - passed a law in this regard. Well, I have tabled as an amendment to Article 1 the wording of the Greek law which, from my point of view, is fine, and that is what you greeted with exultation saying that it was progress. To me the Greek law is fine, because it is in accordance with a draft law that I presented four years ago entitled "Contrats of solidarity and coexistence". The Greek law says that two persons (man-man, woman-woman, woman-man and, therefore, applies to any form of cohabitation) go from the notary, conclude a contract of cohabitation and solidarity in which they govern all matters they consider useful - from assistance to the hospital, to the last will, to the apartment, to everything they consider necessary - they deposit it from the civil state officer and is also ostensible to third parties. I have tabled this amendment and I would like to understand from the friends of the PD why it is not good and I ask why we must instead put ourselves on the plan that civil unions only apply between men and women and women, Article 29 of the Constitution applies only to men and women, and the second part of the Cirinna bill, which concerns conventions, applies only to heterosexuals. So, for a man-to-man couple you will have the survivor of the pension, while for a couple made up of a man and a woman with one, two or three children, and that maybe has been together for forty years, no survivors. But aren't we all the same, as Article 3 of the Constitution says? In this way a de facto couple, made up of a man, a woman and children, are discriminated against in relation to the homosexual couple. But let us not end here, because there is the marriage of Article 29; there are civil unions only for homosexuals and conventions only for heterosexuals. Then there is a fourth category: there are men and women, homo or heterosexual, who do not want to marry or enter into those types of contracts to which jurisprudence gives some protection. But it is not yet over: there are also the cohabitations not more uxorio, but solidarity as between two widows. There are many cases in life where people get together, live together and share, and these would be treated in a fifth way different from the other four. Then there is a sixth category, made up of singles, which are treated differently in turn. We build a six-piece civil code, depending on changing situations because those who make civil union can easily cancel it and contract marriage under Article 29 and vice versa. The legal situation can change. I'll tell you a treat from the last few days. The Confession has reported to the Office that such a liquidity of relationships causes that, if two persons belonging to a union enter an apartment and one of them dies, the other can remain there for about three years. If in the meantime it constitutes another union, the contract is perpetuated indefinitely and whoever gave that house to rent no longer sees it, and it has been authoritatively demonstrated. I'm sorry about President Grasso. I can deny the evidence, but Mr Malan has given all the references that civil unions make to the civil code and all the overlaps that make it identical to marriage. Mr D'Ascola spoke of legal fraud. It's called one thing, which is the same as another, with a different name. I always remember the unforgettable Cossiga who said that, when it was compulsory to eat fish on Friday, some prelates took a nice steak, baptized it as fish and then ate it. It is the same thing: it writes civil union and overlaps. I recalled that six Presidents emeritus of the Constitutional Court of different political and cultural orientation said that the text was totally unconstitutional. I didn't say that, but they did, because it's a scam. Colleagues, why didn't you fight to change Article 29? It was so simple. I would have accepted democratically. The Constitutional Court has told us that, as long as Article 29 is written in this way, it is insurmountable because marriage is obligatory between man and woman. You could have had a battle, since you have the majority to change article 29 and write that marriage in Italy is between man and woman, but also between homosexuals. He was in the Constitution and we would solve all the problems. Instead, you did not touch Article 29 and entered into the mechanism of fraud, writing one thing and thinking another, and saying that you think another. At least my colleague Filippin was honest in saying, although scandalizing us, that for her two men can have a child and it is their right to have it; Two women can have a baby and it is their right. I acknowledge intellectual honesty, unlike other colleagues who have told us that it has nothing to do with what we are talking about in the other articles with the adoption of children and the uterus for rent. She was honest. We have tabled amendments to delete Article 1 and we propose the Greek model, which you have applauded on the open stage, because it is much more liberal than yours, it puts everyone on par and does not oblige the State either to go and see who lives together, whether more uxorio or not, and to verify the type of orientation or motivation that leads two people to do so. It is much more liberal from this point of view, because the state does not meddle under people's blankets to see what kind of relationship they have. Let us hope that in this illegitimate debate - I repeat this once again and I will do so every time - because it has skipped Rule 72, there is at least a desire for a serious debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u114	I greet students and teachers of the Grumello Institute, of Grumello del Monte, in the province of Bergamo, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u115	Mr President, I would like to make one of my amendments to Article 1, which represents the re-imposition of a draft law which I tabled at the beginning of this parliamentary term. In the union of states of which we belong, that is, the European Union, there are fourteen countries that have a law on civil marriage between persons of the same sex. It is not - as someone might have believed or might have believed a few years ago - an anthropological mutation of Western society. It is simply a matter of the awareness of a fact: if we, as it is right in a secular country, distinguish between marriage understood as a sacrament, with a specific value that is attributed to it by those who profess a religious confession, and marriage understood in its secular dimension of union between citizens, we can only come to the conclusion, on the level of legislative policies, that countries that exclude from access to marriage - and therefore to one of the most important institutions that organize the society of our time - persons of the same sex carry out discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. This is how, starting in the Netherlands in 2001, followed by Belgium and all the other countries of the North of Europe and, to go down, the countries of southern Europe, Latin and Catholic, like France, Spain and Portugal (just yesterday he healed a limit in his law on marriage, including the full possibility of adoption, what we call legitimate adoption, for same-sex couples), little by little, until reaching the number of fourteen, many European countries have extended civil marriage to homosexual couples. This is what has happened - for example - in all the great Catholic countries of the world: it is enough to think, in addition to the European Catholic ones I mentioned, of Argentina, Uruguay, Brazil and some areas of Mexico as well as other countries of different traditions and religions such as Canada, New Zealand and the South African Republic. It is simply a principle of equality before the law that, where it was launched, did not produce grasshoppers invasions, dissolution of the traditional family and social damage. It has produced only greater social inclusion, greater stability of relationships and greater and full participation in the social life of homosexuals and their families. That is why I, along with many other colleagues, presented, at the beginning of the mandate, a bill that was not by chance called "Norms against matrimonial discrimination" (a bill similar to others filed by different political groups (I think of SEL and the 5 Star Movement), which collected that demand for equality in the face of the law that today is denied to homosexual people in this country, unlike what happens in most European countries. It is a request based on the principle that the European institutions and Community law have established that there is also a right to family life for same-sex couples and a right to marriage also for same-sex couples. Therefore, unlike what has recently been improperly and illegitimately stated a decision of the Council of State - I hope it can soon be reviewed by the competent bodies - marriage in the law of the European Union exists as a legal content and there is also in the Community law what is called a margin of appreciation, for which every individual State belonging to the European Union can decide and determine whether to make that institution its own and, therefore, to assert its legal effects in its own territory. Italy has decided no, because of a political will of this Parliament, in which - as we see from the difficult debate of the last few weeks and days - there was no political majority adequate to support such a law. It would be the only one capable of reducing inequality in our country in access to an institution such as marriage which, in a few years from the coming generations, will be seen with the same disvalue with which today we look at the limitations - for example - linked to interracial marriages, which not only countries far from us as the United States, but Italy itself, with the racial laws of 1938, had inserted into its own order. Today we are moving on another totally different ground, based on the principle of maintaining the heterosexual paradigm of marriage and working to respond to the demand for rights from homosexual couples, through another institution, very different from marriage and based on Article 2 of the Constitution and not on Article 29. This is the playing field that we have chosen and this is the playing field that I hope in the next few days we will be able to trample on, having always in mind the rights of those people in the flesh, of that part of the Italian population today without rights, which for too many years asks Parliament to overcome the distance with the rest of Europe, that distance that today unites Italy only to very few realities and to very few States of Eastern Europe. We managed to arrive after a country like Estonia, that is, a country of the former Soviet Union, to reach - if we arrive - a moderate law on civil unions. This is the field of play that we have decided to go on and that is why - reluctantly and knowing that the battle will go on, will continue and will only lead our country to abolish discrimination in access to marriage - announce the withdrawal of amendment 1,6003. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u116	Mr President, we do not want to withdraw amendment 1,6009, which calls for the introduction of marriage between sex people, because we have tried to bring back our original proposal to extend marriage to people of the same sex and to provide civil unions for all. We are also tabling this amendment because - unlike what has often been said in the debate in this House - we do not consider civil unions, as provided for in the text under consideration, equal to marriage and, therefore, we hope that, in a quiet debate in Parliament, it will be possible to find a broad transversal. In the debate on civil unions and stepchild adoption, in the end we listened to many strange speeches, in which we were told, even by those who object, that it would be better to introduce marriage between people of the same sex. Well, we maintain this amendment and, therefore, we think we will find consistency in the votes that will be cast in the next few days. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court has already acknowledged that the legislator has the possibility, by ordinary law, to choose whether to extend marriage in an egalitarian sense to same-sex couples or introduce a new institution; and it did so in a judgment of 2010. The reading of this judgment of the Constitutional Court was then confirmed, in 2015, by the Court of Cassation. On the other hand, our Constitution within it contains principles - as we said in the general debate - that no constitutional reform and even less a judgment could change. I refer in particular to the principle of equality and the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens. And we have been particularly inspired by that principle. For us marriage is a fundamental right, on the basis of our order, from which it is not possible to exclude couples formed by persons of the same sex on the basis of a personal characteristic and that is sexual orientation. Those who propose differentiations between homosexual and heterosexual people create two classes of citizens, giving the former a lower social dignity than the latter. We intend to fight against this discrimination, precisely in the name of the principle of equality. The possibility of raising children, on the other hand, is not a condition to contract or keep a marriage alive, as we have already said. The fact that a family exists or does not exist does not, fortunately, depend on the approval of our bill. While we are debating, in fact, families do exist. The family is made, as well as by the legislative recognitions (which help), also by other fundamental elements, such as love, affection, care and esteem, which contribute to creating it. For this reason we consider our legislative system backward, that it cannot photograph reality and that instead in this case it could do so, capturing what really happened in our country. First Senator Lo Giudice referred to what happens in other European countries. Italy must recover the accumulated delay and must do so by approving that they are not courageous, but simply take note of the reality. We therefore think that the unevenness between heterosexual couples and homosexual couples risks representing a strong principle of discrimination and polluting the principle of equality which our Constitution solemnly lays down. I do not know whether I will be referred back to the other amendments tabled, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You have the amendments 1.6009 and 1.6037. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). I then take a few seconds to say that we propose to replace the words "specific social training" with the other social training to which the Republic guarantees the fundamental right to family life. And we do so precisely as a result of the reasoning I have made before. In case we talk about civil unions between people of the same sex, we say that they are not just social formations, but they are families. And, therefore, let us specify this principle in a better way. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u117	Mr President, I rise to explain amendment 1,6015, which reads as follows: Replace the article by the following: Art. 1. - (Aims). - One. The provisions of this Chapter shall establish civil union between persons, without discrimination on grounds of sex, as specific social training in accordance with Article 2 of the Constitution. The civil union is a separate and autonomous institution compared to that of marriage. Consequently, the title of the measure is replaced by the following: "Regulations on civil unions and rules on cohabitation contracts" I also give a reason for this proposal. In particular, civil union must find its foundation in Article 2 of the Constitution and not in Articles 29, 30 and 31, which govern the family, as the union of a man and a woman. The aim of this amendment, therefore, is to create an autonomous legal institution, a source of rights for people who decide to express themselves within these new social formations, regardless of discrimination based precisely on sexual identity (in this case homosexuality). In fact, the reference to the expression "the same sex" is deleted, introducing the term "without discrimination of sex". We believe that, in this regard, Senator Cirinna's bill is a bug, legal rather than political, which, under the label of the civil union between persons of the same sex, as a specific social formation, follows an approach that assimilates and identifies, in everything, the civil union with marriage. This is not only the opinion of the Conservatives and Reformists, but that expressed even by the President emeritus of the Council, Cesare Mirabelli. Yet we should know the tracks within which we should have moved in order to guarantee, in addition to political opportunism, the so much-vaunted rights to homosexual couples, and I must say not only to them. The same judge of the laws has told us on several occasions, before which he will be inexorably destined to fall this provision: civil union must find its foundation in Article 2 of the Constitution and therefore not in Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the fundamental Charter, which were from the constituent thought and structured to protect the family as a union of a man and a woman. With this measure we can, at most, deceive all those people who believe a law, any law, that recognizes to them what the fundamental Charter does not allow. Of course, we can't fool the consult. The objective of this law is instead to create an autonomous legal institution with different characteristics and graduated with respect to marriage itself. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that there is a great deal of attention to our work in this House, and there is a great deal of attention to this measure, because it places first the people, expectations, anxieties and hopes of so many people who have been seeing for too long, unjustifiedly, foreclosure of basic rights. We decided yesterday, with a very large majority vote, that this House should move forward on this measure. This attention justifies - and I am pleased - the fact that these forums today are full of people who have been waiting too long for the recognition of rights. Mr Giovanardi, first of all, appealed to the Rules of Procedure and called for a ban on kisses among those who attend. I do not know if the Rules of Procedure forbid kissing, but if so, I hope that those who attend will hold hands. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups),]] because this is really a measure that allows in full and in full right, to those who cannot do it today, to break the wall that prevents him from being recognized; to hold hands, to be together fully. Then I thank them for being here. Mr President, Amendment 1.6014 (correct text), which I would like to explain in this House today, returning to the floor after the general debate, concerns Article 1 of the measure under consideration, on which much has been discussed with regard to its alleged unconstitutionality, the one that Senator Sacconi mentioned a moment ago in his speech, also saying that the draft law has a divisive character. Even for the remarks I made earlier, I believe that it is exactly the opposite, namely that the measure under consideration is finally healthy, instead, unacceptable fractures and that it finally eliminates unbearable discrimination. When the rights are extended, as we want to do, they are all to be stronger, it is society as a whole that is stronger especially in times, such as those in which we live, marked by a crisis that makes it fragile. Amendment 1.6014 (correct text) therefore concerns the provisions of Chapter I of the measure under consideration, the provisions concerning civil unions between persons of the same sex as specific social training, implementing - in accordance with the amendment I have tabled - Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution and Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This amendment, Mr President, makes it clear that the constitutional foundation of the protection of same-sex couples is not to be found in Article 29 of our Constitution, which concerns marriage, but in Article 2, which states that there are inviolable human rights, both as individuals and in social formations, and then in Article 3 of our Constitution, to which we should call every day in this House and fight to implement it. I refer to the article devoted to the principle of equality, which speaks of the social dignity of everyone without distinction and according to which it is the task of the Republic, therefore of all of us, to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order that limit freedom and equality. For a rule of law, freedom and equality are an inseparable combination for the development of the human person; they are key words of our Constitution, of our political initiative, of everyone in this House, of all political forces and movements (should be so). The clarification contained in amendment 1.6014 (correct text), that is, the anchoring of the articles of the Constitution and the Convention on Human Rights, is also based on two very important judgments of the Constitutional Court. The first is judgment No 138 of 2010, which states that homosexual couples must be protected on the basis of Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution, and the other, equally important, is judgment No 170 of 2014, which calls on the legislator to intervene as soon as possible and this is our task. Mr President, the fact that the Constitutional Court is calling it back to us is mortifying for all of us in this House. We have a duty to remove this mortification, this delay, the anomaly of Italian legislation on rights that separates ours from other Western countries, but that above all separates our Parliament from Italian society which, as usual (fortunately on the one hand and unfortunately with regard to the political class) is later than legislation; it is later on in a social change that is already extensively metabolised by families that have been reconfigured in recent years becoming plural. I have also added in Amendment 1.6014 (correct text) the anchoring of Article 8 of the Convention which safeguards human rights for a reason that I would like to remind this House with the same force, namely that in July 2015, only a few months ago, the Court of Strasbourg condemned Italy in the famous judgment "Oliari and others against Italy," precisely for reasons related to the inertia of the legislator. I would like to remind you that a law on civil unions with adoptions is now the heritage of most European countries, Western democracies and the countries of the Council of Europe. Italy has infringed Article 8 of the Convention which protects family life and the right to respect for private life. This lack of recognition calls politics to a very strong initiative, the one we are holding in this House. This amendment seeks to clear the field from pretentious arguments that the draft law under consideration would define the institution of civil unions as marriage, with all the constitutional problems that we know of. In fact, that is not the case and I want to point it out. In the course of these two years, we have achieved a high level of mediation in the text that we have brought to this House, which makes it clear that this is not the case. These doubts are eliminated, also thanks to this amendment which insists on Article 1 of the draft law which - I want to point out this as an important political emphasis - was the only one to be approved in the Commission's work. The amendment strengthens the connotation of social training in order to avoid any doubt. We, Mr President, have a moral imperative to finally give recognition and legal protection to those who have been discriminated against on the basis of their sexual orientation. This is a shame that we must remove from the ground of our society, to reaffirm that in this case we are not only talking about individual rights, but also about individual rights that are, themselves, also social rights; they are fundamental social ties, which give inclusion and strengthen our society. There has been talk for a long time of progress which would have led to a liquid society, freer, more open, but this is not the panorama with which we have to deal. The panorama with which we deal every day, every day, is that of a very divided society, full of inequalities and injustices. But a society full of inequality and injustice cannot, Mr President, produce happiness and a society that does not produce happiness does not produce well-being. And then civil rights also bring economic growth, growth for a society that at last - this is our task, all together - with this measure can be stronger, stronger, more mature. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u119	Mr President, I would like to point out that, on the basis of what has been agreed, I am speaking to explain the amendments to Article 1. I have not understood whether the amendments to Rule 1 will be put to the vote in accordance with practice and the Rules of Procedure. If that were not the case, for mysterious reasons, there would be an illustration of the amendments to Article 2, then to Article 3, to Article 4 and so on; 23 articles, I could speak 23 times, ten minutes for each article. That's what I'm saying to keep it on record. The Rules of Procedure are clear to me. So those who have tried to make a parliamentary force today have made a self-angled goal, because, for example, I who do not intend to speak for hours in the course of explaining the amendments, should I wish to exaggerate, I could speak (10 by 23) for two hundred and thirty minutes. As long as they do about ten people and we get to two thousand three hundred minutes; and maybe some other Group does too. So be careful, because if you tear up the Rules of Procedure then you find yourself ill. With regard to the Rules of Procedure, I want to delete Article 1 of the draft law because I believe that, as it is written, it does not comply with the Constitution. This provision I then call it bill Lo Giudice (not Cirinna), since we are doing all this, for article 5 that serves the Judge (and against this norm, as I have read, would express not only many colleagues of the PD but also President Napolitano). I read an article by Belpietro that transcribes a television conversation between him and Lo Giudice, who didn't answer about the cost of buying the famous child he bought. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] THE COURT (PD). What a purchase! Stop it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, we are talking about the amendments to Article 1. Just stick to the subject, not the newspaper or the TV show. THE COURT (PD). Don't you dare, Gasparri! [[Protests from the PD Group.]] The law to buy children cannot be done. MUSSINI (Mixed). Leave the kids alone! Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). You have to leave the kids alone, I agree. I'm not buying them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, please come back to this. RICHIUTI (PD). Think of your life, not the life of others! Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Children therefore do not buy, because otherwise they can also sell (and whoever bought them should tell us how much he paid them). CIRINA. (PD). That's enough! Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Why do I contest the writing of Article 1? Because I think there's an unconstitutional reading going on. Going up to my office just now, I found a letter from Amnesty International, a visible organization, which I imagine writes to all parliamentarians (I do not presume to be the only recipient). Well, we are looking at Article 1 of the draft law, according to which reference is not made to Article 29 but to Article 2 of the Constitution, and therefore to other forms of social training. According to Amnesty International, who I thought was dealing with other things (he has so many things to do with all the people persecuted or killed; I think of Christians who are persecuted in the world, which is an issue that could be dealt with), Article 29 of the Constitution (now we have the correct interpretation of Amnesty International), does not say that marriage is for men and women. Now, with all due respect for Amnesty International, which, I repeat, I appreciate when it comes to protecting people who suffer torture, murder and massacre - what is happening in the world is so grave and sad that I imagine you are spoilt for choice to decide your priorities - I do not understand why we have to suffer these things. With regard to the Rules of Procedure, since we have established that it is possible to speak Rule by Rule, President Grasso - let me say this, Mr Calderoli - yesterday he also came to make a dissertation with regard to secret or non-secret amendments, on the basis of the request not to move to the Rules of Procedure. I have not yet understood what the amendments to the secret vote will be on the various articles, because in my opinion President Grasso's reading yesterday already announces a restrictive approach. However, the subject referred to in Article 29 of the Constitution is one of those which can be the subject of secret voting and I hope that some of the amendments which I will support on Article 1 will also be the subject of a secret vote. However, that President Grasso has a strange evaluation of the Regulations tells us another episode. I read in a newspaper earlier that the Supreme Council of the judiciary is considering the extension of the Legal Adviser... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] The subject is relevant, Mr President, because the Legal Adviser to the President of the Senate gives him opinions on the amendments, on eligibility, and also on the procedure we are following today, which he arbitrarily wanted to compress. The legal adviser to the President of the Senate, who is called Rosario Aitala, has already had ten years out of office, so if the President of the Senate wants a legal adviser who remains so violating the rules laid down for the magistrates out of office... [[Senator Lumia's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u120	Senator Gasparri, I'm sorry, what does this have to do with civil unions and de facto couples? You can't come here and talk about the world universe.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u121	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I'm talking about the President of the Senate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We are examining Article 1 and the deleterious amendment. There has been and will be a discussion on the question of secret voting. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I was quoting this fact - and I apologize for remembering it - to say that whoever takes a legal adviser by violating the rules laid down by the laws, it does not seem reliable when deciding which secret vows to admit and more. It was an advance or a postponement of criticism to the President of the Senate. I close the matter, because you consider it incongruous; however, it remains to the record that there is this practice at the CSM that will discuss in the next few days issues pertaining to the Senate of the Republic (I should have spoken about the order of business). We therefore believe that the amendments that we have tabled - I have signed several of them - concern precisely the attempt to avoid confusion between Article 2 of the Constitution, invoked in this first article, and Article 29 on marriage, because the amendments that we have tabled in some cases reaffirm the impossibility to proceed with adoptions in situations other than those of marriage, as is regulated - with the good peace of Amnesty International - between men and women. You can see that Amnesty International has not read the Constitutional Court's judgments. I will reply to the President of Amnesty International by sending him the note of judgment No 138 of 2010. I do not know whether this can be mentioned and is relevant, Mr Calderoli, because it concerns, as you know, the interpretation of the Constitution, in particular of Articles 29 and 2, in their relationship (social formations and marriage). We therefore want to amend Article 1, which I would like to delete as a matter of priority. Then there are other amendments, which I hope will be accepted. We will see how the vote will be and whether the legal adviser will give the right opinions to the President of the Senate or wrong (as in the case of the calculation of its out-of-role duration). I hope that there will be some gaps, and we have therefore tabled amendments to make it clear that adoptions are allowed only to those who are in the condition of marriage under Article 29. I say this, Mr President, because we in the country have a clear response from a clear majority of citizens who are opposed to adoptions for gay couples. So there is the problem of what these gay unions are, that we want them to be regulated. As a Group, we are not opposed to the regulation of unions between homosexuals, but we consider them to be social formations other than marriage. This is the subject of our amendments to Article 1 which, in various ways, spell out this diversity. However, I see conformity in the political system, and also in Parliament. What is the prevailing opinion of the country does not find a balance, and the same happens in the media system. I highly esteem Pierluigi Battista, an authoritative journalist, who recently also wrote a nice book about his father. Today, on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), an article appears where it trivializes the issue of adoptions by gay couples, demonstrating how, in the media system, the difference between social formations, regulation of rights of homosexual persons, marriage and adoption tout court - which Baptist in this article hopes - is not perceived by some who conduct a snobbish discussion instead. They ignore parenthood and educational balance as well as the references to children's rights in international conventions. In these weeks a debate has opened between pediatricians and educators who recall elementary principles. In fact, even if one is born in a certain way (e.g. who is an atheist, which I am not) he must recognize that children are not bought in California, but are born from the encounter between man and woman, and also the practices of assisted fertilization, which in some cases are stressed beyond certain limits, start from a physical fact of combining male and female elements made with health procedures and not with other methods. As for all attempts to compress, even arbitrarily, the debate, by tabling a kangaroo amendment, by voting and by closing the debate, we wonder whether we really think that we can adopt this measure in this way. Of course, we in Forza Italia have not practiced obstruction: the 270 amendments - which have now become 230 - on a law of 23 articles constitute an absolutely physiological limit. Other groups have submitted more, but have not yet withdrawn them. If I understand correctly, the reason is that members of the Democratic Party Group must decide which ones should be presented. Mr President, we also claim the right to table amendments because I have read in the newspapers that a group in this House is debating whether some senators can have freedom of conscience over nine amendments or three. But let us not forget that in the Forza Italia Group we said that the senators could have freedom of conscience on three and a half amendments! They would have kicked us out of the civil assembly. I am therefore in solidarity with the Senators of the Democratic Party who are being vexed by Stalinism, because the number of amendments on which they can exercise freedom of conscience is also centered. Long live freedom! Down with Stalinism back! [[Senator Caliendo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u124	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I am sorry to take the floor on the order of business, also in the light of what Mr Gasparri has just heard, and also in the light of what has been said over the last few hours. I really believe that before the country we have the responsibility for a frank debate, in which different positions emerge, which are all as legitimate in this House as they are in the country. But we really have a responsibility to represent in this Parliament a country that certainly does not want to transcend, and that has not done so even when it has come to the streets to express different ideas. Also on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to say that we do not accept in any way that in the debate (in which, I repeat, the different views can be expressed in the tones that this House requires) repeated personal attacks on fellow senators, particularly our Group, are detrimental to the dignity of the person. We have fallen to the level of quoting and pulling children into a debate that does not need a media grudge. There are different ways in which we can proceed, and I really do not want us to be forced to ask for disciplinary action against colleagues who have now transcended the tone of the debate. [[Senator Giovanardi's protests. Live comments from the PD and Mixed-Sel Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u125	Colleagues, the example must come from both sides. The appeal made by Senator Russo must be heard uniformly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u126	Mr Russo (PD). I really am speaking with the hope that what I am saying will help us in the next few hours and days to bring back the debate on the tracks that are appropriate. In particular, I must say to President Gasparri that already in the past weeks and months he has been sometimes forced to apologize for the things said. I pray to him and all my colleagues: we apologize to those who have been offended by his words. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me in front of the children! Mr Russo (PD). I believe that this House must and can afford a higher debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-Sel groups. Comments of Senators Gasparri and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u127	Colleagues, if making an appeal to common sense and serenity determines reactions of this kind, the show we are giving is really very low level.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u129	Would you like to speak on the order of business? Or the mess of the works? If you wish to speak on this subject, I am sorry but I shall take the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u130	Cotti (M5S). I would like to speak in a personal capacity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Cotti (M5S). President. - The next item is the report (Doc. Of course, the Commissions will not meet as long as the sitting of this House continues. Cotti (M5S). We'd better know right away, so we can set up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Cotti, I am unable to calculate the time to assess whether we will be able to conclude by 14:00, when the Commissions are convened, or if there will be a breach. Let's see the progress of the work. In any case, I repeat that the Commissions cannot meet while the work of the House is under way.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u131	Mr President, I did not ask to speak on a personal basis so as not to show that I wanted to obstruct. I am speaking now because I have tabled only one supplementary and corrective amendment to Article 1. I have not tabled a deleterious amendment or any other type of amendment. Mr President, it is true that we must remain calm, but we must also realise that in the last few days we have witnessed events, which I do not want to define using big words, but which are at least out of the rule. When the President of the Senate defines an issue that is right, what has been submitted by some senators to the Constitutional Court by means of a conflict of attribution, I do not think we are faced with a normal course of work in this branch of Parliament. When Senator Zanda said that we are trying not to approve this measure, I wanted to ask for the floor for a personal fact because I have been engaged on the issue of civil unions for thirty years. I am pleased that some of those who were in a different position 20 years ago than those who proposed the subject have now been converted over the last six months. This Article 1 too, as I have already mentioned and I would like to reiterate, is the result of an old text by Senator Cirinna, because the current text we have never discussed in the Commission, and an amendment by some colleagues in the Democratic Party who spoke of original law. On them, precisely because of that desire to adopt a law that is constitutionally legitimate and does not give rise to actions and then put it into nothing despite the approval of Parliament, I allowed myself to invite everyone to reflect that, since the entry into force of the Constitution, unmarried couples or who cannot marry have always been considered social formations. It is not a question of today, it was born immediately after the entry into force of the Constitution, where already in the constituent Assembly both La Pira and Moro emphasized the need to take into account the formation of relationships between people who could not all be catalogued in marriage. Therefore, it is not enough to say that civil union is a social formation, something must be added in this Article 1, as the Constitutional Court itself has said, and that is why my amendment 1.6010. I am talking about it now even though it is on page 786 of the file because I have not tabled any obstructive amendments: if I had also included an amendment that was deleted, under the Rules of this House, I would have spoken earlier. In my amendment, I write: ==References====External links== This law governs the rights and duties of unions of adult persons. I'd love you to listen to Senator Russo, because it's important. If we really want to talk, we should all try to figure out what the problems are. Why say "older people"? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, let Senator Russo listen. I was just inviting you to listen: in my amendment I write that the law regulates the rights and duties of unions of adult people, and this is a first issue. In marriage alone, therefore, it is possible for the judge to authorize a minor to contract it, as laid down in Article 84 of the Civil Code, a possibility that I do not think can ever be proposed here, and in fact has been removed from the last Cirinna text. In this first part we must then write that we are of age. My amendment goes on to say that it is also of the same sex. Why is it too? I invite you to take yesterday's "Corriere della Sera" and read the quote of President Renzi, who says that finally the debate in the Senate is starting towards what is the conception of all, that is that you can have equal rights even for people of the same sex. Read it. The rights are the same for everyone and I have already recalled that love and affection between two heterosexual people who do not want to get married and two homosexual people who cannot get married can not be different. Amendment 1.6010 continues: "What social trainings are formed by people linked to emotional and stable living conditions." Beware, if you do not qualify as affective and stable partners, you have not given a connotation of the specificity of social formation. If you do not add the words "suffering" and "stablely living" you are talking about any two people. Senator Russo and I could very well conclude a civil union, even if we are not homosexuals, because it doesn't matter; in reality we are not bound by real ties and we are not permanently living together and therefore we can do what we want. The connotation of civil union with respect to the other social formations where we stand together by associative bond, by a party bond (all are social formations) what would it be? The affectivity and stability of coexistence. If this is not the case, this first article, as it is written in the Cirinna bill, we can very well eliminate it, because whether it is written or not, it is clear that we are in the case referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution, an article for which we must give precise indications. Thirdly, I do this battle to make the rule more consistent with constitutional principles. I am surprised at the position expressed yesterday by the President of the Senate. Any judge, not the constitutional judges but all the judges in our country, are judges of the laws because our system allows us to arrive at the Constitutional Court only if a judge raises an exception of constitutionality. The judge, when applying a law, carries out a constitutional review of the rule and does not look at the column but the content of the law in order to proceed to such scrutiny. The Cirinna bill contains only the rules relating to marriage applied directly, without even the effort to rewrite them but only making a reference to the article and thus making them inapplicable. To give an example, if you refer to Article 116, first paragraph, of the Civil Code which contains the norms for the foreigner, this means, neither more nor less, that the foreigner must present the nullity precludes the marriage issued by his country. Written in this way, you realize that it means nothing, or it means that civil union is equal to marriage. To say that Title XIII of Book I of the Civil Code applies does not mean anything. Look, in my draft law and in my amendments, I too recognise alimony. I am not saying that I am opposed to what is written but I say that it is badly written, because Title XIII, speaking of food, places an order of the obliged to aliments. When he then says that the provisions relating to marriage are all applicable, including citizenship, to these civil unions, it means that all the citizens of Africa, when they have residence in our country, will be able to conclude civil unions; not necessarily homosexual, beware, because for what is written it is not necessarily a homosexual union. Who then wants to delay this law? Who does not want to guarantee a legitimate and correct civil union from the constitutional point of view? Who is trying to make an effort to come up with rules that are legitimate? Who instead tries to impose something wrong written but that it must represent the possibility for Scalfarotto to say that it is not marriage and it is not even a marriage of series B but it is the same thing (so wrote in an interview on the Republic of 2014)? So I would like to understand, and here I appeal to the Democratic Party, are you really going to vote on this law? In my amendments, I recognise the same rights that are recognised by the Cirinna bill with a constitutionally correct wording of the rule. If, on the other hand, you feel that you are making a general rule that leaves the judge any possibility of interpretation and that it is not correct from a constitutional point of view, we are not. On the contrary, a serious speech leads to the identification of the specific points of the text that need to be corrected from a constitutional point of view. I am not told with a certain legal roughness - because it is a crude answer - that heterosexuals can marry, ignoring that the fundamental principle of our legal system is the freedom to marry, to start a business. Nothing can be imposed. At the same time, you want to deny a majority the same rights that you recognize to a minority, creating further discrimination, that there was and is there for homosexuals and that we must remove. Likewise, there was and there is discrimination for unmarried people that we must remove. An operation of this kind means, for your part, the ideological choice not to guarantee equal rights according to a meaning that is not mine but the Constitution and is inherent in the interpretation that the Constitutional Court itself gave in judgment no. 138 of 2010 and is contained in the interventions of the Constituents. On the basis of this, it is necessary to draw up the same rule. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u134	STEFANO (Misto-PugliaMiù-Sel). Having to organize the work of the Junta, I wanted to ask for clarification on the order of business. Does the explanation of the amendments end today? PRESIDENT. - The debate is We present the amendments to Article 1 without closing hours. I assume around 2:45 p.m. we should have finished the afternoon session. STEFANO (Misto-PugliaMiù-Sel). In Tuesday's sitting at 4.30 p.m. we will begin voting on Rule 1, is that not correct? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There will be opinions, inadmissibility and all procedural aspects.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u135	Mr President, I would like to explain why I have tabled an amending proposal, largely withdrawn. I wanted to continue to represent what, in my opinion, should have been the prototype on which we should have had the courage in this House to focus on homosexuality. I am referring to the institution of egalitarian marriage rather than that of civil unions, which constitute the mediation that, in here, we continue to say, has not been sought and wanted. I believe that the citizens and the less experienced people outside of here also realize that today there are two models in force in Europe and in the world, excluding Italy - we really hope for a little longer - to guarantee the rights denied to homosexual couples so far. On the one hand, there is this attempt to improve, but absolutely good, legitimate and well represented from the legal point of view, the recognition of legal protection to two entities that, by deciding to unite their lives, are mutually guaranteed rights and duties that protect each other and that stand as a family unit. On the other hand, there is simply, as my amendment to Article 1 refers to, the alternative of egalitarian marriage as a legal model for guaranteeing these homosexual couples, making them, in accordance with Article 29 of the Constitution, for all purposes a natural family. I wanted to read and deepen, during this period, the many statements that I have heard, to understand whether or not they had a basis, with regard to the fact that we would not have the title, if not changing the Constitution, to consider fully belonging to the case referred to in Article 29 the couples so considered. Do we want to reread Article 29? I believe that a very serious mistake is being made. Article 29 states that: "The Republic recognises the rights of the family as a natural society founded on marriage." This means that the Constitution delegates to a social organization and human experience the brick that constitutes the family nucleus of society and, if it delegates to society, delegates to reality. We have said so many times, here too, that the Constitution has managed, over the last 70 years, not to lose its quality. It is precisely this quality that can be read in the simplicity, clarity and foresight of an article in the Constitution thus formulated. Naturality and legitimacy therefore go hand in hand with the second, which simply makes itself available to define the way in which such naturalness is to be read, from a legislative point of view. The fact that there is obviousness or naturality is witnessed by human nature itself, since homosexuality has always been represented as a natural element. If even it is a natural element, someone will say ‐ as he actually said ‐ that however the homosexual couple is not able to procreate. True, but I would like to remind you that it is true that the impotence of one of the spouses in a heterosexual couple is an element of nullity of marriage, but to be considered such - be careful! - this impotence must be recognized after marriage and therefore be an element subsequent to the marriage act. If, on the other hand, it is known before the marriage act, it is no longer considered an element of nullity. I say this because we are faced with a very heavy, strong and hypocritical attempt in which we cannot read things as they are and say how they are. I have listened to testimonies and statements that another formula should be found, but that we do not understand what it is. Let's look at what happens all over Europe and in all the countries that have legislated in the world, which are many: we are one of the last eight countries, in Europe, that do not provide any protection of this kind. There are 14 countries in Europe that have chosen egalitarian marriage and others have chosen civil unions, civil partnerships, but each has wanted to regulate this matter. There is therefore no third way. The mediation that the Democratic Party and the Senate wanted to make is to identify civil partnership as mediation in order to obtain a broad consensus with respect to the legal institution of this new family. Therefore, I want to categorically deny the approach I mentioned earlier, through amendment 1,6042, which goes exactly to trace the egalitarian marriage and which I will withdraw at the conclusion of my speech, by virtue of a pact adopted and to which I have voluntarily and democratically adhered, because I believe that the bill at first signed Cirinna contains seeds in itself capable of sprouting. I would remind you that we are talking about a legal institution which Denmark has had since 1989. For almost thirty years Denmark has established civil partnerships; then it has transformed them into egalitarian marriage, with a naturalness of continuation of the fact and acceptance of reality. Not only that. The many letters I received personally on this matter, which I was involved in during 2015, led me to reflect also on other facts and issues: the theme of clarity, the theme of homogeneity and another theme that was rightly represented to me by one of our fellow citizens living in Spain. The latter is a Catholic nation, like ours and like Ireland (which decided last year for egalitarian marriage), and has had egalitarian marriage since 2005. Well, this citizen pointed out to me how today, after ten or eleven years, although many governments have changed, no one has ever thought, not even remotely, of going to change the desire for change carried out by the Spanish Parliament. The evidence and reality are stronger than the demagogy we want to bring into these classrooms, as if it were a proclaimed reality, as if it were a right to continue telling a senseless story that is not standing alone. I want to point out, by withdrawing this amendment and thus showing that there is another way of lawmaking (the way of egalitarian marriage), that each of us is taking steps backwards to achieve a broad sharing in this Parliament on the subject, truly gathering all the democratic forces of the country, to make possible and necessary the cancellation of a discrimination that no longer has any reason to be and that finds its origin only in a culture that I also understand. We were all born in a country and at a time when this was not there and when it was even a crime, for some of us, homosexual union. But now we have to take a step forward and quickly; we have to cross this river, this ford, to go and live in a country that is really more civil and human. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u136	Mr President, Chapter 1 of this draft law regulates civil unions. I take advantage of this circumstance to start from some procedural aspects that do not seem secondary to me, linked to today's day, and to respond now, here, to that admirable appeal to moderation, to confrontation and not to transcend that was formulated just ago by Senator Russo. I adhere to that appeal. I would, however, like not to transcend it to be somewhat extended not only to the profiles of personal respect, which are due, but also to some profiles, few and yet essential, of procedural respect. You see, Mr President, there have already been two mischiefs here. This law, the law that bears this number, has never been discussed in the Commission. Yesterday, President Grasso drew in an exceptional way the perimeter of our debate and of the matter that stirs up the consciences and speeches of the various colleagues. After doing this, after having made an intervention as a referee, he also said who was right and who was wrong, and on this basis he motivated his action. Forgive me one joke: I am famously a Napoli fan, and we hope that the referee of the game who will be held Saturday evening will act with other caution and with other criteria. Now - and I return immediately in the wake of the matter - we are discussing Chapter I of the bill governing civil unions. It is not entirely secondary, because this bill - and this is one of the strongest disputes that even from the point of view of the construction of the measure itself I have raised at this time - somehow holds together and juxtaposed the three approaches that have taken place in this matter, and that also European legislation has in this matter: what we might call the same marriageist, which is precisely that of Chapter I; what takes into account the individual and personal rights, which we find in another part of the measure; finally, that of the contractual type and which mainly concerns the patrimonial aspects (contractual-patrimonialism I would define it). These are three distinct areas of the bill which, as I will try to demonstrate, create many contradictions. But beyond the scorn of the Rules of Procedure and in some way also of the Constitution, if we had presented all the amendments together today, we would have mixed everything in a single cauldron, making this debate simply a waste of time, if not a reason for confusion. Fortunately, it seems to me that another approach has prevailed in practice, and since a little wisdom and some glimmer of light, at least in the material conduct of the House, even if it is protected from any denial, have come, I would like to add one consideration: I hope it is not true what we read in the newspapers, namely the possibility that an amendment (which, among other things, being the most similar to the text of the measure, is not understood in terms of the Rules of Procedure for it to be voted on first) will be reworded in the absence of a rapporteur and a government asking for it and becoming a maxi mous amendment, such as those we are accustomed to seeing when there is a question of trust. I also say this to the friends of the People's Area: be careful that no surreptitious confidence is introduced within this measure in front of which they must then put their heads under the sand. I believe, Senator Russo, that a little caution and a little respect should also be taken into account in this matter. So let us not transcend, to allow a confrontation that is civil to the end as regards both respect for people and respect for institutions. At this point I would like to go into the matter and show how different approaches create insane contradictions. The provisions of this Chapter shall establish civil union between persons of the same sex as specific social training. I would like to mention and stress the words 'between persons of the same sex' and the words'specific social training'. I believe that this is the article on which discrimination is based in the draft law and that it triggers an insane vicious circle so that, on whatever side you want to read it, the draft law clashes frontally with the Constitution. I believe that this article contains discrimination, and that therefore in some way affects Article 3 of our Charter, because if the purpose of the law - as we are told - was really to guarantee rights of solidarity and mutual assistance between people who live together, regardless of the sexual nature of their cohabitation (principles on which I personally have nothing to complain about), then there would be no reason to reserve access to civil unions only to cohabitants of the same sex and to preclude it from heterosexual cohabitants. From here the vicious circle is established. Because if this discrimination, if this exclusion is motivated by the fact that heterosexual couples already have the possibility to contract marriage, implicitly admits that civil unions are nothing more than a surrogate of marriage and this comes in clear contrast, as I have shown in another location, with Article 29 of the Constitution. In this sense, Mrs Puppato is right when she says that she would have done better and first to admit it openly. To say openly that what you want to introduce is marriage for homosexual couples. It would certainly have been clearer and would have created fewer problems. There is, however, another issue. If we really mean civil union as a specific social formation, with the reference to the well-known judgment of the Constitutional Court, the choice to reserve it only to homosexual cohabitants and to preclude it from heterosexual cohabitants violates with extreme clarity the principle of equality referred to in Article 3 which - I recall incidentally - affirms that all citizens have equal social dignity without distinction of sex. Therefore, Article 3 imposes an absolute foreclosure on the legislator to adopt certain parameters such as discriminating for access to legal institutions and among these parameters there is certainly that of sexual identity. Mr President, two more minutes, no more. There is hypocrisy because the definition of civil union as a specific social formation is a hypocritical device, useless and ineffective to mislead from the bill Cirinna the accusations of unconstitutionality because of the substantial equivalence to marriage. A label is not enough, it is not enough to put on the sugar jar the inscription "salt" to change its content. This is even more true in the face of increasingly substantial European jurisprudence, which tells us that it does not matter that a legal institution is called civil union, Donald, Philip, Pippo; if the legal substance is similar to that of marriage, the courts and tribunals will consider approving the two separate institutions also in the parts in which the legislator will try to keep them separate. This is the overall trend. The amendments which we have tabled and which I have signed are based on these assumptions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u137	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u138	GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). I need less than a minute. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're already at 13. GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Excuse me, Mr. President, I'll recover at another time. In particular, we have made proposals based on three very simple principles. The first is that discrimination which excludes heterosexuals from access to civil unions is removed from the text. The second is that the legal difference between the institution of civil union and marriage and, therefore, the subject governed by family law should be clarified with absolute clarity. The third: that the entire bill be replaced with a model that, before us, introduced in his country Tsipras (it does not seem to me a reactionary) and that provides, with a truly respectful approach to the freedom of persons, that there be on the one hand the marriage between man and woman and, on the other, the possibility for any couple of cohabitants, regardless of their sex, to regulate their relationship of cohabitation by notary act of mutual assistance and solidarity, to be deposited with the civil state officer, who then inserts it in a special register. This, Mr President, once and for all denies the fairy tale repeated in this House about those who are in favour of civil unions and those who are against them. We have another way of understanding them, and these amendments make that clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u139	Mr President, I rise on the amendments tabled by my Group, the People's Area, to Article 1. There are few, but clear and clear, as are few of the overall amendments. We had presented a few hundred of them to the whole measure and reduced them to about 80, adhering to the mutual invitation that the Groups have addressed. However, our intention remains, with regard to the whole of the measure, that of a profound modification of the measure. With regard to Article 1, which we are talking about, the understanding is equally clear and, in our opinion, fundamental: to reformulate civil unions, that - although President Grasso has an opinion against (but in this case he is wrong) - in the draft law under consideration, which bears as the first signatory the name of my colleague, Mr Cirinna, are described in the same way as marriage. This is the first, very serious vulnus, which we have unnecessarily stressed and stigmatized and on which we have brought the attention of this House and of the public. Yesterday you, Mr Calderoli, speaking from the benches of the Senate, used an effective image, which I want to repeat: it is useless to call an apple or pear thing, if then the organoleptic characteristics of touch and external taste are identical. In this case we are in the presence of something called "civil union" but which is then described in an entirely identical way to marriage. It has already been mentioned several times in this House that there is no difference between the discipline of marriage between a man and a woman and the discipline of civil unions, as described in this bill. I will briefly retrace it, so that it may remain in the proceedings, once again, the fact that there is an absolute identity between civil unions, as described above, and marriage. The thing itself isn't illegal. If you want to introduce in Italian law the possibility for a homosexual couple to contract a marriage, it would be enough to say it explicitly; Indeed, intellectual honesty, all the more due to a Member of Parliament, would oblige us to say so explicitly, to present a law for homosexual marriage and, of course, to realize that, in that case, a similar amendment of the Constitution would be necessary. Unfortunately, this work of clarity, transparency, political and intellectual honesty has not been done. Escamotage, small deceptions, subterfuges, climbing on glass of a linguistic, lexical, dialectical type have been used; but reality is stronger than the reasoning of men. And the description of civil unions made by the bill Cirinna makes them identical to heterosexual marriage. We recall that nullity and impediments are the same; identical are the forms of celebration, which must also take place for homosexual union in the presence of the civil state officer and even two witnesses; identical is the faculty to assume the same surname in the subjects of civil unions; identical are the effects of marriage and civil union in every respect, so much so that the text expressly recalls all the norms relating to heterosexual spouses. The rules governing the succession regime are identical, because there is no exception to the part of the civil union the regime relating to the spouse (so also the civil union part is, like the spouse, legitimate and necessary heir) and even the discipline of divorce and separation is identical. I repeat, I wanted to address briefly the issues already discussed in this House - I have explained to you myself twice in presenting the proposal for referral back to the Commission and during the general debate - but it tends to slip on these issues by the supporters of this measure. Public opinion is not sufficiently informed, even if it is warned. Therefore, the amendments we are tabling to this first article are aimed at bringing the issues back to their real dimension. The fundamental amendment is that which calls for this first article to be settled and consequently also the subsequent articles up to the tenth. The other amendments want to profoundly transform what is said so that there is a clear and unequivocal distinction between heterosexual marriage - the only one admitted by our Constitution - and coexistence. Once again, I would like to stress that there is absolutely no objection on our part to recognizing and sanctioning by law the rights of homosexual cohabitants, but they are, in fact, the rights of individual cohabitants. Every person must be respected without if and without but, in all his personal identity, in sexual choices, in the possibility of uttering any public and religious opinion. The rights are people, not social formations. This is also another very clear point on which the Constitution is unequivocal. We are for the recognition of rights in a strong and definitive way: the rights of persons within homosexual cohabitations. We therefore want, with our amendments, to remove the deception of Chapter I and the following, stressing once again what Europe is asking of us. There has been a great deal of rhetoric about what Europe would ask for, but the substance of the matter remains what we have repeatedly pointed out: a call from Europe to recognise the rights of people. There is no other European document calling for something different. Therefore, our reflection wants to extend to all colleagues, to whatever group or political party they belong to. Good, legitimate and necessary is the will, at the basis of the statements of many, to proceed to a recognition of the rights of people. Negative, deceptive and, in some cases - forgive me - swindle, the will to distribute cohabitations for what they are not, that is, like marriages. We believe that this attempt should be brought to light, exposed. We know very well, because every day the polls confirm this, that the great majority of Italian citizens think exactly so. We will then discuss the issue of adoptions, which relates to other articles of this measure. There the opposition of Italian citizens is even stronger and reaches impressive figures, with 73 percent opposed to adoption and stepchild adoption and only 20 percent favorable. But even on this chapter, which we are talking about, the opposition is strong. Public opinion is in favour of recognising the right of cohabitants, but it is contrary to the fact that this form of recognition becomes a similar marriage. Mr President, that is why we call on each individual Member to reflect freely on these issues and move in the direction of these changes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u140	Mr President, the amendment to Article 1 deletes the term 'what specific social training'. This definition, already contained in the unified text, which preceded what was then presented directly to the House, came about as a result of a debate centred on this very issue. The request for the deletion of this part is linked to the fact that I believe that it represents an indication that, in the end, it has a discriminatory effect; and this is in relation to a law that recognises equal rights regardless of sexual orientation. Equal rights between those who intend to declare their life as couples and take all the burdens, as well as honors. Actually, that's also what we're talking about. We are talking about mutual responsibility. We are talking about a mutual commitment which does not understand why, where it is described in all its complexity, it should be labelled as a specific social training. At this point in the debate I would like to make a very brief comment on two aspects. One aspect is methodological. I would like to explain my amendments to Article 1, of course that on a bill of this kind we will not want to repeat what has unfortunately already happened and that should not happen: to compress and silence a minority. For me it makes no difference to be in favour or opposed to a provision because compliance with the rules, which is then the reason why I was thrown out of the 5 Star Movement, requires me to respect them for everyone anyway: not only when you are on the side of the powerful but also when you are on the side of the minority. This is because this is a protection for everyone. I cannot table amendments that I have not tabled and, unfortunately, I have not tabled any amendments that would bring into this bill the contents of the law against homophobia. At this point, however, given the level of the debate, I believe that the process of this law should be speeded up as soon as possible in its adoption. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u141	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u144	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask you to answer questions: exactly, the 3-00366 of 17 September 2013 and the 4-03074 of 25 November 2014. As I have said several times, the numbers say little but behind the questions asked in the questions are very important facts. In this particular case, these questions refer to the Sicilian urologist Attilio Missa, who was killed 12 years ago and whose death date is now used. To date, there has been a deafening silence in all respects. Here too, in this House, the lack of answers to these questions is proof of this. I also appealed to President Grasso, seeking in him the right sensitivity, which he certainly does not. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Even in the light of the former role of National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor, it should have and could have urged the Ministers of the Interior and Justice to give an answer to the question and questions asked. This silence is guilty. One cannot continue in Italy not wanting to seek truths that are before everyone's eyes. Mr President, today I retabled the third question, because new facts have emerged and finally the reality of this murder comes out and not suicide: it was a set-up. Perhaps - I repeat - even President Grasso has something on his conscience that he did not say and I hope he will respond to this umpteenth reminder of mine. When things don't touch closely, they go into indifference. Today Attilio Missa would be my age. Mr President, if he were your son, your attention would probably be different, as would everyone else's. Attilio Missa could be my brother and your brother. Remember that, remember it all the time. We wait and expect immediate answers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u147	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from a press agency we learn that yesterday's Council of Ministers established the referendum on drills on 17 April 2016. I recall that on January 19 of this year the Constitutional Court declared admissible the referendum proposed by the Regions against drilling, which concerns the duration of the authorisations for explorations and drillings of the deposits already released and has to do with the repeal of article 6, paragraph 17, of the environmental code, in the part where it provides that drillings can continue as long as the deposit permits. This paragraph basically provides that the drillings for which concessions have already been granted do not - I repeat - have a deadline. The referendum instead wants to limit the duration of the concessions to their natural expiry in order to be able to close the ongoing proceedings and avoid extensions that would lead instead to the duration to have no limits. As you certainly know, by June this year local elections must also be held in many municipalities. As requested by numerous consumer associations and environmentalists such as Greenpeace, Legambiente, WWF and Marevivo, in order to reduce the expenditure of the state budget it would have been appropriate to combine the referendum against the drills in the local elections with a single election day. This government, which on the reduction of the costs of politics has repeatedly presented itself to the Italians with propaganda actions, but without substance (I remember the sale of blue cars on the eBay site in order to make cash and collect a few thousand euros), is now once again complacent towards the oilers in order to weaken democracy, giving up a saving of 300 million euros that the single election day would have allowed. This is a new shame that weakens democratic participation on a relevant issue concerning the environment, health and development of local economies and shows once again that this Government is incapable of saving where it is easy to do so. Honestly, I don't understand the reasons, or maybe they're all too clear. I would also like to say that I am going to put an urgent question to find out what the official reasons for the lack of consolidation are. Finally, I call on my fellow Members to support any action to support the election day in order to avoid a new waste that would cost EUR 300 million, which would be taken once again from the citizens' pockets. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u150	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking for a few minutes just to light a beacon on an affair that is apparently localistic, but in my opinion, in fact, it requires this Parliament to give more thought to the security of our city realities and the serious discomfort that some communities in the big and medium-sized cities are experiencing these days. I am referring to what is happening in the Bolognina district of Bologna, a popular neighborhood that for many years has lived the settlement of many communities that have moved to Italy and come from various countries, European and non-European. Bolognina is a neighborhood that stands in a particularly favorable position for those who want to dedicate themselves to activities not properly legal, because geographically it is very close to the Marconi airport of Bologna, and the entrance of the ring road and the highway and from there pass also the high speed, with the train station. In this last month, since the beginning of January, various titles have appeared in the local press - but it is yesterday a service of "Studio Aperto" (Open Studio), so the story has risen to the national media for its gravity - and many articles have denounced what is happening: an escalation of robberies and thefts; groups of citizens who organize themselves with batons and seek justice on their own. A prefect who, at least according to the press, does not say no to the constitution of rounds of citizens to guard the territory; attacks on women and, finally, also breaking windows and other acts of micro-criminality, which are seriously undermining the peaceful development of the daily lives of the people living in this neighborhood. I would like to draw the attention of this House not only to the facts that are happening in the Bolognina district and that are not isolated from the city of Bologna, but in general to all similar situations, so that we may be asked if the policies pursued by this Government, which have led to a rationalization of resources for internal security at the expense of citizens' security, should not be reviewed. It is necessary for this Parliament to pay attention to these facts, to hold a serious debate on this matter, and for there to be a commitment on the part of the Ministers of the Interior, Defence and Justice to take appropriate measures to bring back not only order but also serenity in the lives of our communities, which deserve it deeply. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u153	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, there are paradoxical situations where the victims are likely to pass on to the executioners and the executioners are also going to get away with it. A few weeks ago a municipal administration fell, that of Castel Giorgio, in the province of Terni, where the mayor was faced with the failure of the majority that had elected him. In the territory a very strong tension has developed, linked to a geothermal plant hindered by the citizens for some risky complications that the same would lead, not escaped by those who have to realize it. In recent days, Mr President, they have appeared in an important newspaper, in national circulation, "Il Sole 24 Ore" (The Sun 24 Hours), the statements of a manager of the company ITW & LKW Geotermia Italy, who wanted to realize that plant, called Diego Righini and who carried out the practices in the Umbria Region. This manager says: If we had passed, from these authorities, with the "bribes" at this time everything would be solved with the probability of tomorrow being accused of corruption us and concussion them. Today a private manager remains in doubt, every day, about how to obtain the authorization that belongs to his project. How do we get out of this state of administrative violence to sustainable development? These words worry me a lot and I think they should worry anyone, especially if they are within the framework of an administration that has suddenly seen a change of opinion among the members of the majority who supported the mayor. To the mayor, Andrea Garbini, we give the maximum solidarity and all the support, because he decided to say no, not bowing to the bullies of those who think that this is probably the way: that of bribes. I believe that there is a need for clarity on this issue and that the judiciary should also I'm interested in it. In fact, I would never wish that those who come here to describe themselves as victims would also be tempted to think that this is the way to go, and that perhaps elsewhere this road produces results. We are sure to have on the territory in Castel Giorgio people who have not bowed and we are certain to have seen Castel Giorgio administrators who changed their opinions by doing, undertaking non-straight paths that need to be clarified. Let it be clear to the public that those who work must do so in compliance with the rules and if these rules require people to take account of their opinion, it is right that if they say no is respected, without "bribes" and without corruption.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-576.ana.u154	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 14.12 a.m.
