ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2271, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 282, 453, 454 and 1236. I would remind you that Articles 2 to 6 were adopted in the afternoon sitting and that the discussion of Rule 6a and the amendments and the agenda submitted to it began.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u7	COCIANCICH, rapporteur. Mr President, in this morning's debate - as you well know, because you yourself raised it - the issue of the limit of emoluments and wages for RAI managers and staff has emerged. I believe that this issue has received great attention and many other Members have spoken on this point. I believe that a common sensitivity has been created in this House with regard to the need for the content of the amendment to limit the remuneration of RAI summits to be included in this measure. In fact, the issue had already been raised a while ago in the Supervisory Committee and, at the initiative of the Democratic Party, the Supervisory Committee unanimously adopted a resolution which committed itself to adopting the EUR 240,000 as a maximum limit for the remuneration of RAI top management. I understand that, on the basis of this initiative of the Supervisory Board, the RAI's Board of Directors was also working and that the Government, in its view, planned to include a similar limit in the Stability Act. That does not mean that I think it is appropriate that this limit should be established right now within the law that we are talking about. That is why I tabled an amendment, signed by the rapporteur, before the beginning of the sitting, which, if you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to read, so that it can be heard by all my colleagues. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] You are right, Senator Airola: Mr President, I would kindly ask you to ensure that the text is distributed to colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u8	Colleagues, I believe that what Mr Cociancich is going to read is crucial, so please be careful.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u9	AIROLA (M5S). We would also like to read it, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The text will soon be distributed, Senator Airola. COCIANCICH, rapporteur. I would merely point out that, compared with other amendments tabled this morning, my amendment extends the pay limit to EUR 240,000, even to directors for whom, on the other hand, it was not foreseen, so it has an even wider and wider scope, if we want, than the wording proposed today. I now read the text of amendment 6-a. ==References====External links== 6-a. In paragraph 1, after paragraph "1-a," insert the following: "1-a. 1. The maximum remuneration limit of 240,000 euros per year, referred to in article 13, paragraph 1, of Decree-Law 24 April 2014, n. 66, converted, with amendments, by law 23 June 2014, n. 89, applies respectively to directors, employees and consultants of the entrusted subject of the concession of the public radio, television and multimedia service. 1. a.2. For the purposes of compliance with the limit referred to in paragraph 1- bis.l, the exclusions provided for in Article 23-a of Decree-Law No 201 of 6 December 2011, converted, with amendments, by Law No 214 of 22 December 2011, shall not apply. I hope, Mr President, that this amendment will be a point of convergence, with respect to all the sensibilities and opinions that have been expressed this morning, and that it will therefore enable us to continue with the spirit that has characterized the whole discussion of the measure, ensuring that, in the end, the result will value everyone's contributions as a whole. That is also why I would like to thank those who have spoken to raise this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u12	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, in the light of the words of the rapporteur, who is presenting this new amendment, although we know that the matter is not new because there are other amendments which concern you, we would like to ask you to set a deadline for the submission of any sub-amendments. Of course, we are asking for a reasonable time both to analyse the text of the amendment and to draw up any sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u13	I believe that the request is legitimate and that it is necessary to have time for the distribution of the text of the amendment and for the submission of sub-amendments. I therefore suspend the sitting until 5.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.43 p.m. and resumed at 5.44 p.m.) I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda, which are to be discussed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u14	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of amendments 6-a.500 and 6 -a.306 (text 2), which are identical, and 6-a.500/100. The opinion was opposed to the other amendments. In particular, on amendment 6-a.500/1, since the positions of chairman and director-general are already covered by the definition of director and employee, therefore they are already included in the wording; on amendment 6-a.500/2, which concerns the activity of the trade union college, since the remuneration of that body is established by statutory fees; on amendment 6-a.500/3, as I believe that the category of consultants is wider than that of self-employed persons, therefore the provision of amendment 6-a.500 covers a wider area. I call on you to withdraw the G6- bis.300 agenda, which seems to me to be largely out of date. As regards the additional amendments to Article 6a, I am against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u15	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. However, in relation to the positions that the Commission has expressed in this House and in the House at other times, I would like to explain the reasons for a favourable opinion on amendments 6-a.500 and 6-a.306 (text 2) in relation to this path which re-introduces a limit on wages. I am also saying this because, before the break this morning, I heard some speeches, including those of President Tremonti and President Gasparri, who, I imagine because of a lack of memory, have made a somewhat selective reconstruction of what happened. I would therefore like to give a clear explanation of the government's position. I am very pleased that today they agree on the choices we have made or give them to acquire also personalities of forces that these choices have opposed or have never assumed. It is not true that the issue of RAI bonds or bonds is the first transaction in this sense that makes the company: the first transaction was the listing on the RAI Way Stock Exchange. In this respect, I would like to take up words that I have also heard in this House, with bad predictions of inauspicious outcomes and collapses, because in reality the privatisation of RAI Way has made a public entity dynamic in a market that until then was left solely to the activity of a well-known private entity and this is the first financial operation that has helped to intervene on the debt and restructure it. I am sorry that a person who I consider competent as President Tremonti does not recognize the merit of a management like that of Luigi Gubitosi, who did a meritorious operation on the finances and management aspect of RAI. Then there are the other choices. We are debating - and President Calderoli even suggested the figures of the largest revenue - the canon, because this Government has decided no longer to tolerate tax evasion of the canon and put it in the bill. Colleagues, it has been so little time that I am sure that each of you remembers what has been said and written, with dramatic predictions, about this operation, which is of simple cleanliness and fairness. If today we are discussing the possible use and the relationship between this resource and the others, it is because this Government has introduced this measure. If we discuss wages, it is because we - the government and the majority - wanted the transparency plan. I remember what authoritative representatives said, including President Brunetta who, unheard, asked for this measure also from his Government. Let us discuss why we wanted this measure, imagining that it could also lead to a more correct and rational setting of wages in RAI. In fact, the RAI Parliamentary Supervisory Committee, which represents Parliament and all the Groups, had already unanimously taken on an indication of this, in a comparison with the RAI Board of Directors, that only instrumentally someone said they had no power, while they had real power of direction. The Board of Directors of the RAI, gathering the indications of the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee, was working in that direction. Personally, I have always felt that the right path was to enhance the work of each of us, for the role he has, in the bodies to which he belongs and if the parliamentary supervisory committee makes sense, he has it exactly in this direction: to give guidance and evaluate the results. I think it's negative that we constantly give the feeling of an eternal new beginning, as if each time, on an emotional push, we erase ourselves the things we do even unanimously. However, while fully aware of the signal that is being given and also aware of the fact that, as President Renzi has already leaked, on this matter, if there had not been a convincing response from the RAI's governing bodies, the Government was ready to intervene in the law of stability, I have no difficulty in joining the rapporteur's amendment, which appreciatively seeks to reconstruct on this that unity which had been established in the bicameral supervisory commission. I confirm the favourable opinion, but I defend the work carried out so far, each for its own competence, by the Government, by Parliament, by the majority and by the different managements of RAI (I refer, in particular, to that of President Tarantola and Director Gubitosi), the results achieved and the choices that have led RAI to this point. However, the amendments do not go in the opposite direction, so if the Groups (starting, of course, from the Democratic Party and the other majority groups) find it useful to send a further strong signal in this direction, the Government has no difficulty in joining this invitation. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u18	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary if the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u21	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I would like to draw your attention to the intervention of the representative of the Government, who has gone far beyond the expression of the opinion and, in my opinion, reopens, as our Rules provide, the possibility for the Groups to speak on what the Undersecretary has said. If you consider that the Rules of Procedure should, as I have suggested, be applied in this direction, of course our Group reserves the right to comment on the Government's statements.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u22	I would say that the intervention of the Undersecretary Giacomelli can be interpreted as a very motivated opinion. Let us move on to Amendment No 6-a.300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Senator De Petris, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u23	Mr President, to be honest, I find it absolutely incredible that an opinion has been given against this amendment in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, but let us say that we have become used to it. We are asking for the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u26	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, excuse me for speaking again on the order of business. I believe that the novelty of the amendments in the text and the sub-amendments requires a passage, even formal, through the opinion of the 5th Commission, even directly in this House, as is usual. If, on the other hand, the Presidency considers that the opinion should be made available to the Commission, we are ready to say so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u27	I would ask President Tonini, since the sub-amendments, at first reading, all appear to me "saving" and not burdensome, if he can express his opinion in this House, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u28	Mr President, I did not have the opportunity to examine the sub-amendments because they were not presented to the Commission. I would therefore ask you for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u29	The texts of the amendments are distributed. I ask the offices to send them to Senator Tonini.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u32	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, it seems strange to me that we are questioning the 5th Commission to save money.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u33	Senator Airola, when I said that the sub-amendments seemed "saving" to me, it was to give a similar reading to what you now gave. Formally, I must at least ask the President of the 5th Commission for nothing. However, I think about it exactly in his own way. AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to express exactly this concern and thank you for allowing me to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u36	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business with a brief summary. There was a discussion yesterday and today about the need to introduce a roof to RAI's economic treatments. There were amendments tabled by myself, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, Senator Calderoli and colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, but there were no amendments by the rapporteur. The rapporteur has tabled an amendment which basically incorporates this approach; the sub-amendments specify it even better, and some have also been welcomed. We are therefore going to vote - I am addressing my fellow Members, because the details are followed by those who are in charge of the measure, a ceiling of expenditure in the RAI area. I think it's an important passageway. The Budget Commission must note that less will be spent, so I imagine that reading the amendments can be easy. I would not like to miss the opportunity to introduce this measure, having read today in a newspaper that RAI intends to proceed alone in this regard: better to intervene by law than to read about it on "The Messenger". The war, we understand it from the Republic of the RAI we know from "The Messenger": we approve a law instead of reading the newspapers! I would be in favour of moving forward, but that is the opinion of those who have read and written the amendments and the sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u37	Colleagues, I would like to remind you that we must now proceed to votes which have nothing to do with the RAI salary ceiling. Then we shall have the vote on the sub-amendments to Amendment No 6 bis. 500 and therefore the vote on the amendments tabled by the rapporteur and Senator Calderoli introducing the expenditure ceiling. At that time, there will be room for explanations of vote and for everyone to take their positions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u40	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I will be telegraphic and I will take up Mr Gasparri's remarks. In order to facilitate the work of the President of the 5th Commission, I would also like to express my support for the speedy assessment of the amendments concerning the powers of the Budget Commission. And I say this knowing that there will be no obstructive attitude on the part of the opposition forces - Gasparri has spoken and I am speaking now - on the content and content of the amendments which were rightly intended to be put to the attention of the Budget Commission, which - as you said, Mr President - are geared to saving and reducing expenditure and not to the contrary.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u43	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I apologise to my fellow Members for waiting, but it is difficult to give an opinion. When situations are of minimal complexity, it would be good to bring the Commission together. However, since this is an issue which has its own evidence and because there is convergence on the part of the whole of this House, I do not think it is necessary to go into more detail. On the whole, the amendment is certainly a saving amendment and even the sub-amendments seem to me to all go in the same direction and, therefore, nothing prevents.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u44	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 6- bis.300, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 6-a.301, 6-a.302, 6-a.303 and 6-a.304 are impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6- bis.305, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6- bis.500/1, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). [[Senator Airola points out that he wants to intervene.]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u47	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, there was a misunderstanding about the previous vote: it remained open, but Mr Airola had asked to speak in an explanation of vote. I would ask you, if you please, to correct the Group's vote, which is positive and not negative. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency certainly takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6-a.500/2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u50	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a statement on the sub-amendments at my first signature, specifying that they were presented precisely for the purpose of having in the minutes the clarification that within the limit are included the President and the Director-General, beyond any kind of interpretation or law in fieri, such as the one on the governance of the RAI that we have voted on. In addition, I withdraw amendment 6-a.500/2. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6-a.500/100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u53	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not want to reopen the debate, but - as Senator D'Alì rightly pointed out earlier - undersecretary Giacomelli gave a strengthened opinion, almost by restarting the debate, and I do not want to do so. Undersecretary Giacomelli, you rightly boasted the listing of Rai Way, which allowed RAI to control the majority of Rai Way and cash the money. You're facing the guy who shut down Rai Way's sale 15 years ago. I was Minister, I was entitled to express my opinion and I did not allow a sale of Rai Way, preserving a heritage that RAI controls today, having a majority, and also cashed money. At the time many of the left criticized us: if we had not preserved the heritage, it would not have cashed out; someone will remember the controversy that was there at the time. Allow me, then, after a few years, to be satisfied. With regard to sub-amendment 6-a.500/100, I would like to thank Mr Giacomelli for his positive opinion. And I want to specify what it is. We are here deciding the limit of EUR 240,000 for the managers, employees and directors of RAI, who do not actually exceed it, except the president. Then there is the topic of consultants and collaborators, which is delicate, because the consultant can also be a lawyer. Let's just say that RAI is suing Murdoch for the Olympic television rights, which are worth a lot of money; a lawyer who assists RAI will therefore have an appropriate fee. The sub-amendment says that the roof also applies to consultants and collaborators, except in cases where tariffs determine different things (as is the case with a large legal case, which can happen in a large television company). In this case that consultant - I am referring to the lawyer - may have a payment that professional fees set. But we want to prevent a consultant from evading the roof of the Sports Sunday; we wouldn't want to be fooled by the norm. In fact, it can also be the case of a consultant who gives his opinion in a transmission of health, sport or other. That, however, applies to the ceiling set for collaborators and consultants, except that the tariffs of the profession - the sub-amendment says - determine the cases which, of course, the evidence of the facts will regulate. I set the example of the lawyer who makes RAI win a very expensive international cause in the field of television rights, and it can happen, because we are talking about facts of some value. So we wanted to clarify this and I would like to thank Mr Giacomelli and the rapporteur for their favourable opinion. I conclude by saying that I am pleased that the rapporteur has tabled an amendment. First, the rapporteur claimed the merit of the PD in the Supervisory Board. We in the Supervisory Committee voted unanimously on 11 November 2015, and I have the opinion with me. It is clear - as I said this morning - that, if there had not been the vote of the many colleagues of the Democratic Party, who are the majority (being a bicameral committee, there are also colleagues in the House), the opinion would not have passed. But this came from an initiative of all and was unanimously approved. I have often criticized the chairman of the Fico Supervisory Committee, but he himself deposited that opinion as President. And I say this for the truth of the facts. Then, if it had not been voted by the majority, it would not have passed, and it is obvious. Senator Cociancich, I said it this morning, honestly. And Senator Cociancich's amendment also stems from the fact that some have tabled amendments. It moralizes itself, we have to moralize ourselves, but we also have to give RAI a signal, which in any case does not prevent it from acting on the market for big stars or other things. But a bit of fairness is needed. The amendment takes note of what we have said: do not use the issuance of bonds as a pretext, as was done in the past, because the bond issueer could exceed the roofs. The rapporteur's amendment, which I believe has been written after reading all of us's amendments, takes account of the fact that it cannot be bypassed. Even in the case of those who have the concession of the public service, this roof is established, even if it issues bonds. The rule is very clear and I wanted to say it, so that it stays in the record. I would not like the news to come out tomorrow that the counselor of one broadcast or the collaborator of another will take 300,000 euros. The will of the legislator is clear in the text of the amendment and sub-amendments and, I see Senator Cociancich confirming this, with his hints of assent. On the RAI a short while ago, an amendment of mine was rejected, which set a 15-year period for granting, instead of ten years. Here there is no one who is for RAI and who is against: we simply want to defend RAI. I would have liked an even longer concession, but the amendment was rejected. We also want to moralise economic treatment a little bit and I believe that we have done a responsible job on a law written by the House and not by the newspapers, for once. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u56	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I will make a telegraphy speech once again, because I think it is right to stop some ideas on what is happening. I have the feeling - and I would like to stress the positive term of the circumstance - that there is a reconciliation, as it were, between what is happening in the RAI Supervisory Committee and what is happening in this House, in the sense that this House is restoring its sense of function with dignity. I have appreciated the effort of the rapporteur and will speak in full in an explanation of vote. However, I think it is right to point out that the will of the opposition forces has been to take up a concept that in previous legislatures the Democratic Party itself had identified and set out. Then, recently, that tenacious will to put the RAI's accounts back in order had been a little diluted up to a homeopathic dimension, I dare say. Moreover, there have been tendingly opposing attitudes also by the competent authorities in the Supervisory Committee when the excessive expectations and the non-compliance with the provisions regarding the respect of the roofs that were already present, although obviously not sufficiently clear, in the current legal provisions have been highlighted. Now, the rapporteur's amendment and the sub-amendment contribute to clarity, and I believe that this convergence, which also finds the House in agreement with the tendency to restore sobriety to public finances and to balance a little bit the difference in treatment between the various civil servants who are working in the context of public administrations and the radio and television system, is a very positive fact. I am also pleased to appreciate this as a sign of an effort that sometimes comes to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u57	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 6-a. 500/100, presented by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 6-a. 500/3, presented by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6-a. 500 (amendment text), identical to amendment 6-a. 306 (text 2 amended).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u60	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make a brief explanation of vote on the rapporteur's amendment because at the same time we are also going to vote on amendment 6a.306 of the same content. I would like to make it clear that Amendment 6a.306, signed by Senator Calderoli, had already been tabled. Senator Calderoli, together with the entire Group of the North League, had already highlighted the issue of the ceiling on wages on several occasions. The RAI Supervisory Committee itself had been submitted several times, but the PD, probably because it was busy on other issues and issues, continued to postpone it. 18.14 (Follow COMAROLI). So let us hope that today, at last, the rapporteur, Mr Cociancich, whom we thank, has taken inspiration from our comments and the documents that we have presented. Therefore, our vote will be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u63	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will be voting in favour of the rapporteur's amendment, which has not only been modified by our own amendment, which has had a favourable opinion, but also originates from amendments tabled by Senator Gasparri and Senator Bernini and an amendment tabled by Senator Calderoli and other colleagues from the League. We believe that what applies to all branches of public administration should also apply to the most visible RAI, and should apply to all. We claim our matrix, the result of a long battle, certainly not begun with the measure under consideration, to standardize and make transparent the incomes of RAI, which for a long time have not been. Therefore, we will vote strongly in favour of this amendment, which is the result of our work and our pressure, and of course we thank the rapporteur for having accepted the strong need that has been expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u66	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I too must say that this is a battle that the 5 Star Movement has been carrying out for a long time. When it was time to reform RAI governance, we put forward a proposal, which was rejected by the current majority. When last year, during the examination of the law of stability, we proposed the roof, to overcome the escamotage by which RAI managers increased their salary, our proposal was rejected by the majority. Today we come to this House, we present the amendments, we have a debate and the rapporteur gets up to table an equal or similar amendment. We are very pleased with this, but the fact that the PD is in the name of this victory is at least unheard of. I would rather have told the House that today, at last, the fruit of the work we have done across the board with our colleagues, such as Verducci - he is looking at me - and Gasparri, has been shared across the board. I would not have referred to this result exclusively, not least because the rapporteur of the opinion you are referring to was precisely the chairman of the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services, Fico. This is shameful: if we had voted on the roof two years ago, we would have saved a lot of money and perhaps this would have pleased those who today, indigent, are forced to pay the rent in their bills. To the Undersecretary Giacomelli, who talks about the work to be valued, not to start all over again, I say that it is you who start all over again. If the work of the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee had been truly valued by this Government and the previous Government, we would have signed a text of the service contract shared across the board. And my fellow Members of this Commission remember that, because these are concepts and principles on which we all agree. Today, in this place, it becomes instead a flag of Renzi. I want to put in the sedan, not my colleagues and the representative of the government here, but a gentleman in charge of everything! He testified to his filth, because the important things in the country are done because there are oppositions that try! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today you are so afraid of the judgment of the citizens that you pulled the amendments out of the drawer and decided that this is PD stuff! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Cardinal and Mirabelli senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u67	Senator Airola...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u68	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, we shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u71	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we will vote with conviction on the amendment tabled by the rapporteur. It is not a question of running for the name of the amendment. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Fucksia]] , but it seems to me that we have fought this battle in the proper locations [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] , since the comparison in the Supervisory Committee, where it was apparent that the company had a reading aimed at using a number of legislative limits and codes: so it was said, not later than a couple of months ago. I believe that on this occasion we have played the role that oppositions must play in cases such as today, in order to overcome misunderstandings that would otherwise have allowed us to continue on the uncertain ground of legislative interpretations, which have led not in a distant past, but also on the last occasion, to create a jungle, as regards recognition and compensation, today no longer sustainable in the face of the deep crisis that goes through our country. We have this function and, therefore, we accept the rapporteur's amendment, so that it can be a way of understanding the substance of the matter and the goodness of the corrections, which can also be done in this House when this is necessary. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u74	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Democratic Party on the amendment by the rapporteur, Senator Cociancich, of particular importance. I would like to say to this House and to my colleagues who have just warmed up that the facts are important in politics. And this parliamentary majority is demonstrating by the facts the possibility of affecting and changing things. Today's amendment will mark a watershed. I would like to address my fellow Members, Mr Calderoli and Mr Gasparri: this is an amendment that comes today after, for too many years, RAI has become a layering of salaries that have grown out of proportion without justification and, very often, assigned to people who no longer have those tasks for which they had been assigned. Today, on a parliamentary initiative, the amendment we are debating is taken up and voted on. Similarly - Mr President, these are also done - the current Government has introduced the rule from which today's debate, the amendment under consideration and the initiative also spring. I am referring to the provision that, in June 2014, it wanted all those working in participating companies to have the ceiling of EUR 240,000. These are the facts. The others are polemics that leave the time they find. President, with regard to the substance of the amendment, I would like to say that the same is important not only for RAI, but for the entire communications system of our country. RAI is by far the most important actor, and its choices will be able to influence the whole communications market and initiate a virtuous process to delete even the black pages I mentioned earlier. To return to giving the public service company credibility, authority, reputation, social legitimacy and to regain trust, we need transparency. The term "transparency" is now an obligation for RAI, because it was introduced by a reform of governance that this parliamentary majority and the Democratic Party strongly wanted. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would like to remind Mr Airola that, even before his amendment, there was transparency in the amendments signed by the Senators of the Democratic Party. Mr President, on the subject of transparency, it has been pointed out that today, in RAI, salaries above EUR 200,000 are about 90. The work of the Supervisory Committee has been mentioned. In that place I felt to ask how many RAI salaries are less than 2,000 euros, because it is necessary to say enough to an RAI that is weak with the strong and strong with the weak, like the many precarious who push it forward. I conclude by saying that I particularly welcome the amendment by the rapporteur, Mr Cociancich, because a political point supports it: it fully incorporates the supervisory committee's arrangements, which the Democratic Party strongly wanted, but which has been voted by all parliamentary forces. In this there is a distinctive feature of parliamentary work that wants to be united, of a political initiative that wants to be strong, but at the same time strongly united. Today the amendment under consideration will urge RAI to a further leap in quality, a code of self-regulation on which we are already working, in order to have transparency and traceability on everything, on all the wonderful (even those of the artists), on all the collaborations (even those of the producers), to break monopoly constraints that very often condition the RAI too much and do not allow access to many who, instead, want to work with the main company of cultural production in the country. For this reason, this step is decisive today and I think that we should all be proud of the work we are doing. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u77	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for allowing me to vote on my amendment as well as that of the rapporteur. On the order of business I made a mistake when I was presiding: I said that the order provided first for amendment 6- bis.500 (amendment text) compared to 6- bis 306 (amendment text 2). Since my amendment was tabled first, the chronological order provides for the signature of Senator Calderoli and then that of the rapporteur, since now everyone tries to put a hat on it. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to remind the Government, which I thank for the willingness shown on this and on other amendments, which had already given rise to the problem in the Commission, and which the Government itself had suggested to me an agenda; then I was able to guarantee that this commitment was made and, therefore, I am grateful for it. But I have to correct it with respect to the regulatory act of reference concerning the ceiling of 240,000 euros per year, because this figure comes from Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, at my first signature. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u79	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u80	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I believe that the 5 Star Movement also wins when it forces the party system to change. And I appreciate this retrofront, I really appreciate it, because we did what we had to do at the time by asking the House for the amendment that avoided the postilla-raggiro, that is, the one that allowed the RAI to distribute huge prebende. So the PD voted against, but today it repairs that damage, and I'm glad. Therefore I will abstain, because I want to leave all the credit to the Democratic Party to pass the palette where the 5 Star Movement indicated to clean. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u81	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6a.500 (amendment text), tabled by the rapporteur, identical to amendment 6a.306 (amendment text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 6-a.307 and 6-a.309 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6-a.308, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.- bis.310, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 6-a.311, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 6- bis.311, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6 -bis.312, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 6 -bis.312, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators, until the words "are deleted." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 6 -bis.313 are therefore excluded. Amendments 6 -bis.314 and 6 -bis.315 are precluded by the adoption of identical amendments 6-bis.500 (amendment text) and 6-bis.306 (amendment text 2). Let us move on to amendment 6 -bis.316, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6 -bis.316, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6 -bis.317, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6 -bis.317, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agenda G6 -bis.300 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6-bis in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 6-a.0.0300 is impervious. Amendment 6 -bis.0.301 is precluded by the adoption of identical amendments 6-bis.500 (amendment text) and 6-bis.306 (amendment text 2). We now come to the examination of Article 7, on which amendment 7.1 (text 2) has been tabled, which, in view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u84	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, information represents - we have seen it in the last part of the debate in this House - a fundamental segment of the social and economic life of each community. It may seem pointless to stress this, but I would also like to remind myself of this because we are experiencing a very delicate moment. Pluralism, objectivity, completeness and impartiality are key principles that have formed and still form today a debate that, unfortunately, in the framework of the RAI Supervisory Committee has been revived beyond that perimeter of civilization which should also belong to Commissions who carry out roles and tasks that - because of the very nature of the principles that are defended there - represent the foundations of a democratic state, especially with reference to the principle of information. What happens during this period around the events affecting the public television service is emblematic of a situation that seems to deteriorate at the expense of plural and correct information. The imbalance, the disparity in time and content, for example, destined to the referendum question that is the subject of a constitutional change of particular importance for the democratic structures of the country, seems not to affect the majority forces and the government. Yet it is precisely a question of influencing those powers of the State which are governed by our Constitution, but which find a debate absolutely asphyxiating and insufficient to bring out the complexity and delicacy of the issues under discussion. As a result, we have soft, non-truthful and insufficient information. It is clear that freedom of the press is one of the primary guarantees of every rule of law, since it guarantees citizens and all their representative bodies the exercise of freedom of expression, the safeguarding of the plurality of ideas and is the cornerstone of the control of the power of the State. I would just like to remind you that unfortunately our country for freedom of the press in the last two years, according to the ranking of "Reporters sans frontières" has fallen from the 73rd to the 73th place in Europe, slipping after countries like Nicaragua, Armenia and Moldova. Beyond this disconcerting observation about the level of protection of such an important right in a country like ours, we all realize that the publishing sector has been going through a crisis that has been going on for at least eight years and has deeply marked the dynamics of the market. The measure that we are preparing to vote today therefore intervenes on one of the most topical issues, but in which there are still numerous critical points. That is why we should have found ourselves here today to examine a text that could give more appropriate answers to the many questions and critical points that we have tried to highlight in the general discussion and to address through amending proposals that have not been taken into account. We abandon the anachronistic dimension of the information system, which seems to us the approach with which this bill is addressed. Of course, I would like to express a note of appreciation for the rapporteur, who, above all on some subjects, has shown a particular sensitivity, and also to the Government itself, who, through the Undersecretary Giacomelli, has recovered a permeable attitude, at least when listening; then, for the truth, we would have expected a response in the concrete most incisive, more available, because listening did not follow the adoption of at least a part of those amendments that probably in a few years, in a few months even, we will have to try again to overcome the remaining unresolved points. We have tried to intervene with an amending activity as usual not obstructing and punctual, with all the difficulties that even the debate has marked. At this point I am pleased to highlight what is happening on the web, a space dotted with a continuous search for news by users who often rely on sources not sufficiently accredited (disputable and unverified sources) and a sea of abuse of the same tool, both by users and by the same sources. In this panorama we continue to reason in reductive and crystallized terms and, at the same time, we do not recover the sense of that responsibility that would have helped to overcome some ideological knot, as has also emerged in some speeches of the majority colleagues. Thus, the great classic is the distinction between RAI and local TV, between small and large publishing. We should be able to consider this landscape in a unique, organic and harmonious way. We should do this by taking responsibility for change through a regulatory and cultural strategy that can be a real turning point for the sector. What do we do instead? We continue to use the instrument of delegation to the Government, which, once again, prevents Parliament from intervening and amending, improving, a text that leaves much to be desired. We therefore reiterate, on the one hand - once again - our firm opposition to the use of the instrument of delegation in a way that is overstated and beyond the actual needs, not only as opposition, but above all as members of a Parliament that must regain its primary function and its role at the service of our community. On the other hand, we believe that this measure does not seem to achieve the objective of rationalising the system, in order to protect the principle of transparency and pluralism of information, as well as the right to inform and be informed. On the reform of the Order of Journalists - this is something I would like to highlight - in the section concerning the number of members of the Council, which is reduced to 60 compared to the current one of 144, and the proper rebalancing of representation in favour of professionals, we are pleased to be able to say that we have been among the proposers and to have given, in a motivated and punctual way, a contribution to the agreement reached. But I do not think that is enough. There's a lot of black holes. We would have wanted much more and unfortunately we cannot be content with less. I come back to appreciate the work that has been done, especially in conclusion, with the adoption of the amendment on roofs, but I believe that this is absolutely insufficient to allow us what we would also like to do and that is to give a favourable opinion on the work that has been done. If we cannot make a positive assessment of this work, I would say that we give the Government and the majority forces a sign of confidence so that we can recover more and better in the debate in this House that element which underpins the very function of this House, which, through discussion and debate, seeks to identify the best legislative product. We will not say no, but we rely on abstention to express our thought of disappointment and hope that we can do more and better for the future. This is the thought I express on behalf of the Conservative and Reformist Group. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u87	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr President, I believe that this measure shows how useful cooperation between the Government and Parliament is to improve a text that has been fired from the other side of Parliament. For this reason, I would like to thank Mr Giacomelli and Mr Cociancich for their fruitful and continuous cooperation. The publishing sector has long been waiting for an organic reform, considered indispensable for the revival and recovery of the publishing market and to reverse the negative trend in the field of journalistic employment. In this sense, the data provided by the president of the National Institute of Social Security for Italian Journalists (INPGI) are dramatic. This reform is undoubtedly a step forward in redefining public support for publishing from a perspective of greater transparency. In this regard, it is central to the planning of the delegation to the Government to identify criteria and guiding principles linking the extent of the contribution to employment policies and to the timely application of national collective labour agreements. In the phase of access to contributions, the law aims to ascertain the operation and permanence on the market of operators in the sector, with particular reference to the investment capacity of publishing companies and the acquisition of sustainable market positions over time. These objectives are all acceptable, but they need particular care in their translation into practice by the Government when adopting legislative decrees, taking into account the new socio-economic dynamics that affect the information sector and the concrete requirements of the protection of fundamental rights of professionals who - let us never forget this - play an essential role for democracy. So, we are facing a good reform, although some expectations of the publishers of the local newspapers will be disappointed. The publisher is an entrepreneur and, as such, must necessarily operate on the basis of reliable forecasting plans, and the contribution to publishing is an essential part of this plan. If so, the grant of the contribution cannot be a discretionary and uncertain event. The publisher should be allowed to know from the outset what amount of contribution he can obtain and, therefore, comply with the conditions laid down by law. A real subjective right was once recognized. Then, the publishing fund was progressively emptied, and the lack of certainties put the publishing companies in serious difficulty, unable even to draw up their own budget estimates. The reform on this point remains, unfortunately, vague, with the provision of contributions taking place in an effective time frame. Clearly ambiguous expression, which does not correspond to the need, which the entrepreneur has, to rely on certain times for the provision of the public contribution. The second consideration is that the paper paper, which has already undergone a complex technological evolution, sees every day restricting sales and market spaces. Although synergy with the web is considered to be an added value, perhaps it would have been better to support the development of the web a little less. Where is the cause of this crisis is in the eyes of all: the negative economic situation has in fact knocked down the advertising market, reducing investments and diverting them, for the most part, towards television, thus inflicting a severe blow on the printed paper, however already weakened by a vertical collapse of sales also as a result of the advent of the Internet. There are also some problems that we have pointed out in the Commission, such as the forecast that the support fund will be fueled, among other things, with a percentage on the profits of operators in the advertising sector. This is, to all intents and purposes, an increase in direct taxation, and thus leads to unequal treatment of operators in the advertising sector, which is likely to be detrimental to the same principle of equality. The text that came out of the Chamber provided that, three years after the entry into force of the law, publishers of newspapers and periodicals whose capital is majority held by cooperatives, foundations or non-profit institutions, would be excluded from public funding. The rapporteur and the government - and I thank them for that - have agreed to extend access to these companies for another two years, and at least this will give them more time to restructure. Unfortunately, scientific journals remain excluded from the contributions, and this will remain a vulnus for the cultural dimension of our country. However, this reform was necessary and, as they say, the dynamics of modernity were married. The changes that have taken place in the information system have made it essential to have an organic intervention which, first and foremost, would put order in a fragmented regulatory body. This is where the premium criteria that increase the refund rates for those investing in digital transformation go. I conclude by saying that, more generally, we welcome the use of greater resources for the information sector and the parallel updating of the criteria for allocating contributions to publishing companies, in the direction of greater transparency. Although the hope is that the Government, by implementing the legislative delegation, will give some more certainty to publishing companies, which have the sacrosanct right to be able to know in good time when and how many contributions they can count on. The text we are about to vote on is therefore a step forward in ensuring pluralism in information. For this reason, our Group will vote in favour. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u90	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, this will be a very profound and complex reform of the publishing sector, which will involve not only the discipline of state contributions but also sensitive issues such as the pension of journalists, the functions of the professional order and that of newsstands. A reform that will not end with the definitive approval of the law, because many of the new rules will be entrusted to implementing decrees issued later by the Government. The most important part of the reform is undoubtedly the establishment of the Information Plurality and Innovation Fund at the MEF. Once the reform has been approved, it will be only the President of the Council, with a decree, who will establish once a year the publications that will benefit from the state contribution and to what extent. The Fund will be fed by more resources: those intended to support daily and periodic publishing, those for local radio and television broadcasting and on the one hand (with a ceiling of 100 million euros) of any higher revenue deriving from the RAI fee for the three-year period 2016-2018. It was then decided to add a solidarity contribution of 0.1 per cent of the total income charged to the advertising dealers, including those operating on the web. On the other hand, the idea of bringing to the Fund the proceeds of the fines imposed by AGCOM for the violation of the obligations relating to programming, advertising and broadcasting content has been abandoned. However, the government's implementing decrees will determine the audience of the beneficiaries of the resources in a more precise way. The necessary condition for the financing of publishing companies will be the sole exercise of an independent and independent information activity, of a general nature, and the establishment as journalistic cooperatives, as non-profit institutions, and, up to three years from the date of entry into force of the law, as publishers of newspapers and periodicals, the majority of whose capital is held by cooperatives, foundations or non-profit-making moral entities. In the delegation, however, it is prescribed that state contributions will no longer be able to access the information bodies of political parties or movements and trade unions, specialist periodicals, publishing companies of newspapers and periodicals that belong to publishing groups listed or participated by companies listed on the stock exchange. On the other hand, there remains funding for newspapers and periodicals, for the expression of linguistic minorities, for those destined for blind people, for consumer associations and for Italian periodicals published abroad. The contribution that can be paid, in any case, can not exceed 50% of the revenues of the magazine. The delegation reduces to two years the requirement of seniority of setting up the publishing company and publishing the magazine to access the Fund, in addition to compliance with the collective agreement of employment. The publications published in dynamic and multimedia digital format will be awarded, even in parallel to the paper edition. Also through a delegation, the Government will rationalise the National Council of the Order of Journalists. The members will be reduced to a maximum of 60 (two thirds professionals and one third publicists); a reversal from the previous situation. In addition, the electoral and pension systems will be modified: for early retirement there will be new requirements and criteria. The law announces a redefinition - in the direction of a progressive alignment with the general legislation - of the requirements of seniority for the use of social shock absorbers and early retirement for journalists. The use of early retirement for journalists will include an increase in requirements and a redefinition of criteria. As regards the exercise of the profession, the law reaffirms the absolute prohibition for those who are not registered on the list of professionals or in that of advertisers, but equalizes the protections for the two different qualifications. The duration of the Committee on the Evaluation of Fair Compensation in Journalism is also extended. The reform of publishing proceeds to a substantial liberalization of the distribution system, with the prohibition of arbitrary suspension of deliveries and with rules that guarantee the pluralism of the newspapers at the points of sale, which will have more flexible schedules and a more diversified supply of goods. Since 2017, the equal treatment of newsstands, i.e. the obligation for newsagents to sell all the publications that are sent to the newsstands by large and small publishers, will be mitigated: it will be valid only on the occasion of the first launch on the magazine market. The delegation also provides for tax incentives for advertising investments in newspapers and periodicals and on local television and radio stations, recognising a particular benefit to advertisers of micro, small or medium-sized or innovative startups. Finally, I would like to point out that the ten-year concession for public radio, television and multimedia services is expected to be reduced to ten years. The concession now in force with RAI is twelve years (as required by Gasparri law), while previously it was twenty years. The draft convention, which will be annexed to the concession, will be the result of a public consultation on the obligations of the service itself. The agreement with the concessionary company will then be concluded by the Ministry of Economic Development. In conclusion, this is an absolutely innovative reform, which balances the publishing system. We in the People's Area are absolutely in favour of this measure, because we have followed it in the Commission. We thank the rapporteur and the whole Commission for the effort they have made and we are announcing our vote in favour. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u91	Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u94	Mr Albano (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will certainly have learned in these days of the situation in which, according to the report by journalist Fabrizio Gatti, published in "L'Espresso" last Sunday, the asylum-seekers' centre in Borgo Mezzanone, in the province of Foggia, is pouring out. From the story of the journalist, who entered also him, like many other migrants and their exploiters, through one of the four openings in the perimeter of the CARA, crosses that would be visible also from the video surveillance cameras installed, we learn how, in addition to the overcrowding of the structure itself, in it operate undisturbed criminal groups that have even arrived to divide the spaces, the houses and the structures, organizing a sort of citadel in which migrants, waiting to know the outcome of their applications for asylum and international protection, are directed towards black work in the countryside of the foggiano and to prostitution, with violent coercive methods. We know that, after the release of the report and after Eugenio Scalfari's appeal from the columns of the daily newspaper "La Repubblica", Minister Alfano decided to go deeper into the matter, preparing an inspection. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how could it have been possible that under the eyes of the Forces of Order which should oversee the structure to protect the same guests, the workers of the cooperatives who work at the CARA and the prefecture of Foggia, we have gone to create, within a short time, such a situation, in which we are far from respecting fundamental human rights. I wonder how it is possible that, while in the institutional fora, with the involvement of trade unions and trade associations, protocols of understanding were signed against the scourge of the caporalate, unscrupulous agricultural entrepreneurs drew with full hands from the slave market, because - excuse me - I have no other term to define how these people would be treated by the CARA of Foggia, which I remember is a place prepared and followed by the State. The journalist uses in his service the frequent comparison with the shantytowns and favelas, where material and spiritual degradation reigns, but, while those are spontaneous groups of people unfortunately desperate, the reception centre for asylum seekers is a place created by the State to welcome and give health, humanitarian and material assistance to those seeking a better future on Italian and European soil. This is, in my opinion, the most terrible aspect. Today I have put a question on this subject, signed by many colleagues, because it is not tolerable that human rights are not respected in Italy, as enshrined in international treaties; it is not tolerable that there are people in a place of the State in situations of slavery and exploitation; it is not tolerable that those who have seen have been silent and have allowed criminal groups to act undisturbed; it is not tolerable that those who have failed to monitor what was becoming the CARA should not respond to it; it is not tolerable that situations like those of the CARA of Foggia throw bad light on the entire system of reception of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u97	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, in recent days there have been very sad, tragic news reports relating in some way to computer-based dissemination activities. I am thinking of the case of the young woman of Naples who took her life following a video shooting on the net or that of the young girl raped in the disco and filmed by the so-called friends (the video then circulated on the net). These episodes prompt us to reflect on the lack of approval to date of the law on cyberbullying and push to carry out some clarification also because the first case, that of the young woman of Naples, is certainly not related to cyberbullying in its real essence. There is a tragic and very serious problem, but these people are of age. Since the House is debating changing the text that the Senate had approved on cyberbullying, trying to put together a little 'too much that they are not together, I would like to remind you that for all studies cyberbullying is a phenomenon that concerns the evolutionary age, which concerns minors and for which the educational dimension is fundamental. As a result, it is inappropriate, because it is not effective, to put together things that are not together. The hope is that the House will conclude as soon as possible the examination of the draft law, which will not upset the initial approach which this Assembly had given it and which refers, precisely, to phenomena limited to minors. Unfortunately, a new school year has begun without this law having yet seen the light. Let us hope that next school year can begin with a law that helps young people to know first and then fight a phenomenon that is becoming - alas - increasingly serious and tragic. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u100	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I would like to stigmatise a situation that I do not think should go through in silence. I would like to know whether the Presidency can ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to come and report to the House on what initiatives the Ministry intends to take with regard to the matter which yesterday practically violated national sovereignty. I am referring to the statements made by the American ambassador. I don't imagine we've returned to colonialism. I believe that ours is a Republic with its own autonomy and that therefore it must be stigmatized what happened precisely in order to establish proper diplomatic relations and to avoid that in the near future there can be such exits that do absolutely no good to our national sovereignty. I believe, above all, that a Chamber like this cannot silence what has happened. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u101	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-678.ana.u102	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 15 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.05 a.m.
