ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on updating the essential levels of vaccination and prophylaxis care and prevention, to which the Minister for Health, Mr Lorenzin, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to the questions on updating the essential levels of assistance. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u6	DIRINDIN (PD). Madam Minister, we would like to put to you a few questions which are not so much about the benefits that need to be updated within the measure, which you have already presented in February last year - and which we know to be in a further definition in the near future - as about certain aspects which relate to the actual condition of providing the essential levels of assistance, which you know to be extremely important. I refer to the monitoring of essential levels of assistance. The heterogeneity is a cause for concern for many of us. Article 10 of the Health Pact provided for an update of the monitoring of essential levels of care; we wonder where we are and what the new criteria are. With regard to the continuity and quality of care guaranteed to people suffering from chronic diseases, there is the problem of ensuring the personalization of the principals and disposable products. European Directive No 24 of 2014 will have to come into force shortly; we are about to adopt a transposition measure, but it could certainly already be useful to include (because it is possible) something that explicitly refers - perhaps more than it is at present - to the quality of the principals and not only to the cost, as provided for in Article 67 of the European Directive. The concern also concerns safety in the presence of so many risks that we have above all on information systems and ICT, also for critical health infrastructures. We would like to know, with regard to health structures that are considered by the European Union as critical infrastructures, what the Health Service is doing to make sure that, in the face of the security risks from cyber attacks, the system is absolutely ready to react.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u9	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in the hope that in the near future there will be no limitation on the subjects for which questions can be asked, I come to the question of the essential levels of assistance. Mrs. Minister, you, in the communications you made to the Health Commission in June 2013 on the policy lines of your Dicastery, announced that the revision of the essential levels of care (LEA) was in progress and noted that it was a priority to define a new health pact as a health regulatory plan. Three years later that revision remains unimplemented, as remains a profound inequality to the detriment of citizens between the essential levels of assistance of the different Italian regions. It is a problem that remains unresolved, and I would add - since I want to be honest - for over a decade, whose failure to resolve cannot be attributed solely to you, which, among other things, announced at the end of February an imminent release of the new LEAs. In addition to the request to provide information on the state of affairs concerning the revision of the essential levels of assistance, I would like to ask you two questions, Mrs Minister. Can it give more guidance on how to monitor pharmacological spending, so that equal access can be given to all citizens in treatment, so as to achieve greater savings and, at the same time, support the national pharmaceutical industry? As a second question, I would like to know what the position of your Dicastery is on the relevant topic of rare diseases, with regard to which neonatal screening is indispensable, with particular reference to dysmetabolic diseases, which could be treated with a more accurate diet.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u12	TAVERNA (M5S). Minister, I am referring to the intervention of Senator Zuffada precisely to remind you that this branch of Parliament has approved, in the deliberating session, the bill Act of the Senate 998 which governs the inclusion in the LEA of neonatal screenings. This measure, which was adopted by a large majority, and indeed unanimously, by all political forces, is now under discussion in the House. The inclusion of screenings within the LEA is the only way to ensure that the early resolving diagnosis of metabolic pathologies can be applied throughout the national territory. Let me tell you that, in contempt of all the basic norms of institutional correctness, this Ministry is today promoting a decree that is in stark contrast to the fundamental principle of the bill approved in the Senate. In particular it is in contrast because it provides a highly deteriorating content: this screening is not included in the LEA, it does not become mandatory and remains in an area of experimentation totally useless, considering that screenings are done in Tuscany since 2004 and that the whole scientific community recognizes its total validity. Why, then, bypass the parliamentary body to legislate just when it has come a step away from the final adoption of the law? Why introduce a partial screening, ineffective and bearer of the same regional differentiations that have gripped health for years?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u15	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, I would like to talk about vaccines, because the data of the Ministry 2013-2014 tell us that the covers are low compared to the famous 95%, the target set by the vaccination plan of your Ministry. Under 95% coverage, the figure is also alarming at European level. We also attack the situation of the Regions because unfortunately we are also faced with inequalities of coverage Region by Region. Personally, I believe that vaccinating is the child's best interest and that immunity of flock against foreseeable diseases with vaccines is a public good that we cannot exclude from our health plans. Minister, I ask you: do you think that parents' decision not to vaccinate over the right of a child to be protected by vaccination should prevail? Does the right-duty of each parent to raise their children justify decisions that put the community at risk? Thirdly, what does your Ministry's vaccination plan provide for good communication, for a change of cultural route, for greater involvement of health workers? Finally, can we definitively and scientifically debunk that autism cannot and should not be regarded as the consequence-effect of vaccination measures? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Bianconi, your question was part of the second group of questions, to which the Minister will reply later.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u18	SIMONI (Mist). Article 32 of our Constitution establishes health protection as the fundamental right of the individual, however, it does not seem that this Ministry, especially in recent years, has been particularly committed to ensuring that this right is respected. The cuts have been systematic: from 2012, when the 2013-2015 Health Pact has taken more than 30 billion euros from health care, one way or another the cuts have followed in all the laws of stability. The last one, too, is no less: it introduces a new health trap that will lead to a further reduction of benefits to citizens, through the three-year return plans for hospital companies; it also tries to save again by reducing unit purchase prices. A few days ago, the Association of Italian Hospital Surgeons (ACOI) denounced the qualitatively low level of scalpels for the use of health care personnel; complaint to which must be added the one presented in recent months by the Italian Society of Surgery, which had reported the use of qualitatively poor latex gloves, or even the complaint related to non-functioning blood glucose meters. But it is not only the cuts in supplies that affect the proper functioning of the health system; lack of staff is also a problem that is manifesting itself in all its scope. In fact, in order to compensate for the serious shortage of staff (60,000 fewer than the estimated need), it has often been necessary to use additional shifts on overtime, so as not to allow psychophysical recovery, thereby affecting the safety levels of both staff and patients, and risking, among other things, the opening of an infringement procedure by the European Union. To the lack of staff one must necessarily add that of the structures. The territorial services are in fact non-existent: there is no intermediate structure between the basic doctor and the nosocomi. Citizens are obliged to turn to hospitals where the systematic rationalization of the departments is generating chaos: the beds are reduced from year to year, creating such a situation that, in case of necessity, patients are in departments other than those of competence, with assistance, obviously different, when they are not placed with an accommodation of fortune in other rooms or corridors, or even in stretchers when there are no more beds available. These indecorous conditions cost the lives of our citizens, as in the cases - I quote only the last week - of the woman of Naples, who died because the operating rooms were occupied, or still that of the 41-year-old, always of Naples, who with a bleeding to the head died because the TAC was broken for days. The question is: what is being done to remedy this situation in which our citizens lose their lives because of the systematic cuts that are reducing the health system to the bone? Let us know if the intent is to privatise him, so we stop teasing ourselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u21	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, multiple chemical sensitivity is a controversial and complex pathology for classification as a well-defined clinical entity. It is a chronic condition with a serious sensitivity reported for several chemicals present in the environment even at very low concentrations, normally well tolerated by the general population; it is an intolerance to the most varied substances and products, also of common and daily use until exposure to electromagnetic fields by mobile phones. They are also stories marked by isolation, predictable, by human contacts. This, also and above all, is the story of Mrs. Adele Iavazzo who lives in conditions of all precarious, in absolute difficulty until the limitation of the same contacts with the family, if not with special precautions and protective materials. For its conditions, and for all patients with multiple chemical sensitivity, a petition was signed with about 15,000 supporters: a collective participation, choral, spontaneous and, above all, solidarity. The scientific evidence, at present, shows a contradictory picture, a condition not well defined and unique. I am also aware of the need not to run into easy hopes. In 2008, the second section of the Higher Health Council considered that the lack of scientific evidence did not allow, at the moment (2008), to consider multiple chemical sensitivity syndrome as an entity to be included in the essential levels of care. Mr Lorenzin, I would ask you to address the issue that I have put to your attention, including by calling on the Higher Health Council to re-evaluate multiple chemical sensitivity syndrome so that we can implement administrative measures that I consider necessary and urgent. I would ask you to be able to give us all a response that will give concrete implementation, in this case, to Article 32 of the Italian Constitution: The Republic protects health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, and guarantees free care to the most deprived.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u24	D'ANNA (AL-A). Minister, the decree on prescriptive appropriateness - I say this very directly - like many decrees concerning health, has an economic origin: the ultimate aim is to alleviate the expenditure of the national health system. It is very often flowered as a deepening of scientific and medical issues, but it is not; it is not because of his fault, but because the Ministry of Health continues to submerge under the empire of the Ministry of Economics and Finance. You have issued this decree on the appropriateness where essentially you have limited yourself, through the technicians, to restrict the number of benefits available to users. It was done without a scientific background, without describing the scientific evidence and only to put more time between the intervals of prescriptions that citizens can benefit from than those that, in fact, they used to prescribe. Let me give you an example to show you how pedestal this decree has been made. It is written that HDL cholesterol - which, as you well know, is the good one - we can do it every year; while LDL cholesterol, which is the bad one - I use this term to be understood by the listener - we can do it every five. Actually, we can repeat the test that we don't need as we lengthen what we need. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You have to finish, Senator D'Anna. D'ANNA (AL-A). I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, do you know the truth? I'm telling you, you're as liberal-inspired as I am. Advertising of the service is not the state of management. You have an unequal system: on the one hand you pay at a fare, at a pre-conditioned price and, on the other hand, you pay at the bottom of the list. If you think you can recover the waste and waste of state management by limiting expenses that affect not more than 3 or 4 percent of the 110 billion you employ, you do as in the fairy tale of Saint Augustine where you claim to drain the sea with a walnut shell. You have to do something else: you have to equate the systems and put them in competition and put the patient at the center of this competition.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u27	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, the essential levels of assistance (LEA), i.e. the services which the National Service is required to provide to all citizens free of charge or upon payment of a share of participation, with the public resources collected through general taxation, have been defined by a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 2001. LEAs are organized in three large areas: health care, district care and hospital care. It is very important to remember that the services and services included in the LEA are the essential level guaranteed to all citizens, but the Regions, as they have done up to now, will be able to use their own resources to ensure services and services beyond those included in the LEA. The new Health Pact 2014-2016 provided for the updating of the essential levels of assistance, in implementation of principles of equity, innovation and appropriateness and in compliance with the balances planned by public finances. Subsequently, the 2015 Stability Act ratified the contents of the Health Pact in a regulatory manner. With the 2016 law of stability the Government has decided to cut the resources destined to the National Health Fund, that in the year should stand out to 111 billion euros, against the 113 billion promised initially to the Regions; of these, 800 million euros are bound for the expected update of the LEA. Minister, we ask you whether, being aware of the situation, you do not intend to intervene by reintegrating what has been removed from the health sector, in order to give full and complete implementation to the updating of the LEAs, whose renewal seems indispensable and urgent, without taking away the necessary resources for the operation of medical care, especially in those regions where the health system is in financial equilibrium. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Lorenzin.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for the questions they have asked, which are all very precise and precise and to which I hope to respond in a comprehensive manner in the short time available. It has already been pointed out - I say this for those who are not in this House - that the updating of the essential levels of care, i.e. the treatments and treatments that our citizens receive from the National Health Service, has not taken place since 2001, i.e. for about sixteen years. The reasons why this update was late are very simple, as you could not find a model to ensure the coverage of new therapies and treatments. In the Health Pact - I have personally committed myself, as one of the honourable Members has stated - we have intended not only to review the criteria for updating and monitoring the LEAs, but also to make the new LEAs updateable each year and to build a new grid and a new identification model that would allow us to include all the aspects that have been kept out in the last sixteen years; so with reference to the appropriateness of the treatments provided, the new therapies, the new treatments, the rehabilitation and everything that concerns our patients' common life in the territories. The grids have been re-arranged according to a method of efficiency and efficiency of the system and taking into account also a mechanism now acclaimed by all, that is a system of continuous monitoring that allows us, also through the new commission LEA, to update every year the system, making it so current compared to the new scientific discoveries, but also to the variations that we can find in the individual territories. To do this, in the Health Pact we decided to tackle the whole range and, therefore, not only the essential levels of assistance, but also the new nomenclator, thus also addressing the issue of prostheses, including audiovisual ones, on which - even here - there had been no update for decades. We have signed the Health Pact and examined the first proposal that, as has been mentioned, was presented in February 2015 right here, at the Senate Health Commission, and then presented to the State-Regions Conference. What was the theme? The uncertainty of financing, i.e. the need to have a guarantee so that the new LEAs could actually be realised. For this reason, in the 2016 Stability Act I have bound 800 million euros, destined them precisely for the revision of the LEA and the nomenclator. Having approved the law of stability, we had to wait for the data of the Regions, because we had to make a further monitoring aimed at verifying what of these LEAs has already been applied in many regions, especially those that guarantee more advanced essential levels as extra LEA, in order therefore to be able to purify the obsolete treatments compared to the new treatments that we have inserted in the LEAs. This long process of updating and comparing, with the data of the Regions, is over; there are still three regions, but we can say we are satisfied and we are ready to send the text for the concert to the Ministry of Economy and Finance. So we can say that the process has actually ended and I believe that this is good news for our citizens. But even more is good news that we have finally made this measure updated year by year, with a new way of drawing the LEA grids - as rightly raised by Senator Dirindin - that allows us to guarantee an effective system. The theme of security is extremely important - I finish answering Senator Dirindin - and it is the theme of our time today. It is the theme of how sensitive data is handled, processed and maintained safely. The data is the true economic strength of the new systems from a global point of view; on this we have protocols, as a Ministry of Health, with the authorities responsible for the control and monitoring of computer systems. This is extremely important to us. It is clear that in the future we will all be committed, as data becomes central to the management of our system, to ensuring that data is secure and, above all, well managed. In the other questions that have been asked by those who preceded me, the theme of chronicity also enters. Chronicity is a very important issue and is part not only of the prevention plan, but also of the various plans that we are preparing with the Ministry of Health on this subject. In the new National Plan for Chronicness, we have put the patient's responsibility at the centre; from this point of view, also with regard to aids and the nomenclator, we work in such a way that the quality of the performance provided to the chronic patient is guaranteed. The most appropriate treatment and treatment of chronic patients is obviously a challenge for modern national health services, in a society with a high presence of third and fourth age people. In the face of an ageing population, the challenge of chronicity is also a challenge of sustainability. In this regard, I have been asked a number of questions to understand whether we want to ensure the sustainability of the National Health Service or whether we want to go towards its privatisation. The answer to this last question is: absolutely not. My main interest and objective, and that of the whole Government, is to maintain our National Health Service as a universal and universalistic model, which is our great difference from what happens in most countries of the world. What we have in Italy, that is, access to care and services of the highest level and maximum excellence in a free way for everyone, regardless of your identity card and your credit card or whether or not you have a private insurance, is a social wealth of our country. Among other things, we do this by spending very little on our other neighbours: we spend 6.5 percent on gross domestic product. Everyone asks us: but how do you do it? Of course, major sacrifices have been made in years of economic crisis to do so. But, unlike others, during the economic crisis we did not privatise the welfare system and in particular the national health system; we made it remain accessible to everyone and we must continue to do so. The next few years will be years when we will return to investing in health care personnel, access to drugs and infrastructure. Next year's fund is 113 billion, so there are two billion more than in 2015. It is obvious that we account for the economic situation, so it becomes a duty of all of us to make sure to eliminate waste, to make the system effective and efficient also by doing innovative actions, that is, by entering into the merit of the productivity of the system (in this case I refer to Senator D'Anna), so much so that in the return plan that we have included in the law of stability we no longer act only on the regions, but we enter hospitals. In other words, we check the essential levels of care of individual hospitals, which in recent years have passed through: there are hospitals that have done so for a hundred or two hundred million and are the same in which the essential levels of care are no longer guaranteed. By making a three-year re-entry plan, a road map to get out of the crisis, we go deeper into the processes, with the aim of making the health system more effective and efficient and of freeing resources, which will thus be saved and re-invested in the system. This is a great novelty of the Health Pact: resources no longer go away, they remain within the sector, with priorities: this year were the LEAs and the medicine for hepatitis C; in the coming years will be the health care staff, innovation and research and access to medicines. On the hospital pharmaceutical (not on the territorial one) we are outside the roofs, which were probably too low. We have very strong monitoring of pharmaceutical expenditure, so much so that it has allowed us to keep the roof at the lowest level in Europe, but that is not enough. Compared to the great innovations that are coming, that is, the fact that we will have new drugs that allow us to heal compared to diseases that until yesterday were considered totally incurable, we must review and alter the models of access, and also of expense and management. We are working on this together with the Regions and the Presidency of the Council of Ministers for the new pharmaceutical governance, and I believe that we will be very active on this. But I would like to answer quickly the question of neonatal screening and the rare diseases that Senator Taverna asked me. With regard to screening we have had and have available 5 million euros for 2014 and 10 million euros for 2015, which is why we continue to apply the ministerial decree that we have planned not to lose these resources. We have expressed our support for Senator Taverna's proposal; when she has finished her journey, we will absorb her into the system, so that she does not lose these resources and can extend screenings, which, among other things, are part of our objectives, not only at the LEA level but at the National Prevention Plan, particularly as regards neonatal ones. On this there is the greatest commitment of me and the government to guarantee, not only the coverage, but also an extension in the coming years.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u29	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u32	DIRINDIN (PD). Mr President, I thank the Minister. For all of us this is new, so I understand that it is a bit difficult: it is for us to ask questions of detail (as we are told to do), and it is for the Minister to be able to answer these questions. I therefore reserve the right to have detailed answers in the future, such as the questions we have tried to ask. One issue that is very close to my heart and to which I have long been waiting for an answer is what the Ministry of Health is doing to ensure the security of computer systems in an anti-terrorism key and how much you are committed to cybersecurity, since there is a specific table that is dealing with it. For a long time I have not been able to receive answers but you will soon have the goodness to give them to me. Secondly, we have the problem of the personalization of garrisons, especially for people who are at home. More than having an answer on the wording of principle, on which we all know we are with the agreement, because twice there have been rejected amendments on the occasion of the draft stability law, I wonder if you think that Article 67 of the European directive can already be incorporated into the decree, which provides that not only the economic element but also the quality element should be considered.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u35	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Madam Minister, aware of the limited time available to you to respond, I take note of the good intentions and good will you have expressed. Also aware of the tortuousness of the measures and proceedings in place, I am partially satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u38	TAVERNA (M5S). Minister, I take your answer as a commitment that the Government makes, not to me, but to those suffering from rare diseases. It will be my carefulness, punctually, to point out within the Ministerial Decree that you issued a small discrepancy between what you say today and my concerns about the fact that this money, which is now being used experimentally for something that we, on the other hand, want both in the LEA and become structural, risk being wasted and not used punctually for what the whole of the Health and Health Commission's objective.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u41	SIMONI (Mist). Minister, I am partially satisfied with what you have said. I hope, however, that, in addition to what you have said, we will be able to intervene in the future where serious situations such as those I have mentioned occur, and not just to carry out investigations from outside, for computer security and so on. I hope that a group of inspectors will actually go to hospitals on the ground to see what is going on. That is what I hope will happen.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u44	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, without any forcing (and I hope that I am not forcing you), I believe that you wanted to include in your speeches the multiple chemical sensitivity syndrome, since you did not mention it, despite my speech, even heartfelt from the anthropological point of view, as well as biomedical. I therefore abstain from making any reflection on the state of satisfaction or not of the answer, in the certainty that you will reply, in the time that will be granted later, even if on the subject of vaccinations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u47	D'ANNA (AL-A). Minister, I realize that in one or two minutes the debate is lunar. I tell you, however, that I appreciate the introduction into the law of stability of the famous clause to sanction deficits of 10% or more of the difference between costs and revenues. This approach needs to be increased, because if you pay for rates and benefits, you will go to finance the hospitals that are most concentrated and where doctors are preferred by users. I want to give you two information, more than expressing my appreciation that, as you know, there is always when we go towards reasonableness and competition (because cum petere also means seeking together and competition is the highest form of collaboration). The advertising of the Health Service should not be confused with the state monopoly of management. The service must remain universal and free, but it must have, within it, elements of competition, so that the patient receives the best of what the public health sector, managed by the State, and the private health sector accredited, managed by private, can give. [[Recalls of the President]] If you do not compete with these two systems and pay for both, you will always have a state health care that will waste resources and a private health care that you will choose niches.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u50	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Minister, I will be happy and satisfied when we see the interruption of all the cuts that are made to health, especially to the regions and especially to the virtuous regions that - alas - for all the others are keeping up the national health system. We know very well what they are: they are the regions that have already done the spending review and that always work to give new services to their citizens. Mr Minister, if we cut off the resources from them too, we will actually go in the direction of promoting private health, which, I understand, you do not wish. I will be satisfied when I see a sign in front of the appropriations. For now, I'm not.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u51	We now come to questions on vaccination and prophylaxis, to which Minister Lorenzin will reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u54	SILVESTRO (PD). Minister, I take back what Senator Bianconi announced. The data we have been able to read on the issue of vaccination prevention are quite worrying. I think there is a widespread criticality regarding the Italians' propensity to adhere not only to the vaccination processes, but also to vaccination campaigns related to emerging pathological situations: see what is happening in Tuscany and that could extend to other regions of the country. I therefore ask you, Minister, at what point is the new national vaccination prevention plan, which I believe is one of the pillars of a universal and supportive national public health service, as you have just said, which represents a heritage that we really do not want to be reduced in our country. I also ask you how you intend to support the sense of responsibility of all health workers, and not just of a particular professional class, to recruit them both culturally and deontologically in an active protagonism on this issue, which I believe can be attacked and therefore well resolved only with the active collaboration of professionals. Finally, I would like to ask you how you intend to promote research and independent scientific information on vaccines.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u57	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Madam Minister, there is a fear that certain contagious diseases will follow third-country nationals affected by migration to Europe. In particular, polio cases that could accompany migrants fleeing from certain African, Asian and Syria countries are concerned. Polio, unfortunately, is an acute viral disease, highly contagious and with serious consequences, especially of irreversible neurological type. Those migrants come from conflicting countries in which, unfortunately, poor hygiene and low vaccination rates allow the spread of contagious diseases. Vaccination is one of the most effective public health measures for the protection of health, both individual and collective (I refer to the intervention of my previous colleague). In this sense, we ask you, Mrs Minister: if the European system of polio prevention and other contagious diseases is adequate to guarantee the immunity of the population, i.e. whether it is not appropriate to strengthen the control and prevention systems; what measures are being implemented and which are being implemented to control non-EU refugees, in particular Syrian refugees entering the European Union; whether children from countries at risk have been vaccinated against polio virus and subjected to full screening excluding any form of long-term virus incubation; what steps will be taken to extend compulsory vaccination to persons not immunised in the advanced age group and if it does not consider it necessary to undertake cognitive actions and information campaigns on the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u60	GAETTI (M5S). Minister, many parents wonder about the effectiveness of vaccines and their side effects. The question "do I have to vaccinate my son?" is born from a problem of trust, indeed, of lack of trust towards doctors and pediatricians, who must return to the center of the health system, towards politics, which has increasingly turned away from defending the interests of citizens to represent those of the great groups of power, towards the pharmaceutical companies, which transform health into profit (and the medicines for hepatitis C are an example), towards the scientific world, which has abandoned the approach of medicine based on evidence and has allowed itself to be contaminated by publications with often discordant results. Citizens are disappointed to see that the schedule reported within the National Vaccination Plan is the faithful copy of the Life Calendar sponsored by the drug industries and the only response that has been given is a threat of prosecution. The preparatory studies for the National Vaccine Plan have seen as sponsor the same companies that produced vaccines and the Plan has been drawn up, among others, by the Higher Institute of Health and by four scientific companies of which we do not even know the accounting documents, the Plan enhances the offer of vaccines, often questionable, compared to the basic vaccination cycles, without solving the node of how to reach the covers necessary to transform this enhancement of supply into health. Citizens are therefore disconcerted by the conflicts of interest that are seen at many levels. To restore trust to them, I ask you what you have done and what the government is doing. I would also remind you that, on the subject, the 5 Star Movement submitted a question, 4-04966,.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u63	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mrs. Minister, the intensive vaccination campaign against meningococcal C, decided following the increase in cases registered in Tuscany compared to previous years, involved the provision of extraordinary measures to promote vaccination. These measures have seen the free offer of vaccination to people aged between twenty and forty-five years in two areas of Tuscan ASL and to people aged twenty years in the area of Central Tuscany ASL (i.e. in the provinces of Florence, Prato and Pistoia). A vaccination offer has also been provided with a contribution to expenditure of over forty-five in Tuscan ASL Northwest and South-East. In the absence of a preliminary epidemiological investigation, this campaign has resulted in a blanket vaccination, certainly fueled also by the media alarm and on whose effectiveness one could reason critically. My questions are very simple. First of all, would it not have been more useful to start an epidemiological investigation which, through the use of pharyngeal swabs, was specifically aimed at the search for healthy carriers? For what reasons has the hypothesis of a targeted investigation not been taken into account? Can you provide reliable and up-to-date data on the number of cases detected and especially the types of bacteria detected? We do not know whether it was meningococci, streptococci or Haemophilus influenzae. Last but not least, can you provide data about the cost incurred? What does the Ministry think about the introduction by the Order of Doctors of incentives for doctors in proportion to vaccinations carried out or, on the contrary, sanctions for those who do not vaccinate? This, as Mr Gaetti has pointed out, is something that greatly undermines the concept of trust on the part of the patient. Finally, I would like to associate myself with Mr Romano's request for multiple chemical sensitivity and I would like to know what the real possibilities are of including this disease, together with fibromyalgia, among chronic crippling diseases, which many citizens are asking of us, despite the difficulty of making correct and precise diagnosis (but it seems that for this reason the means are there).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u66	D'ANNA (AL-A). Minister, I do not repeat what my colleagues have said about vaccination campaigns. I tell you, however, from direct experience, that there is a vulgate that tends to feel useless, if not harmful, vaccines, especially because they would cause the onset of autism. It would therefore be appropriate for the Ministry to make a counter-information in relation to the propalation of these reports which are completely out of place and out of place. I must also point out, however, that people no longer distinguish between compulsory vaccinations and those that rightly, in this case with redundancy, the Ministry of Health promotes, and to which it very often obliges, so much so that, by not distinguishing between the compulsory vaccine and the optional one, we have arrived to immunize seventeen or eighteen types of viral or bacterial antigens, which seem to me a little too much. Two o'clock. We make compulsory vaccines really mandatory, providing for a rule that prevents children who are not vaccinated for polio and for diseases with high circulation from being able to access schools. In fact, those who want it can certainly raise their children by assuming on themselves the obligatoryness, but they cannot send children to a community that can be potential vehicles of those diseases. [[Recalls of the President]] As far as vaccines are concerned - and I come to the question of the former, if President Gasparri gives me a few more seconds - I would like to tell you that 80% of outpatient and laboratory facilities, those run by the State, are without the decree of opening and operating under the decree of the President of the Republic of 14 January 1997. Send inspectors to ASL Naples 2, where diabetics are assisted in dilapidated structures without the decree of opening and functioning, while the accredited private centers that had the requirements were closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u69	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, according to Italian law, there are four compulsory vaccinations, together with nine so-called optional or recommended vaccines. The right to vaccination prevention today is guaranteed, with splendid results, throughout the Western world, without any legal obligation, but with active offering programs by the health services that take charge of the new child arrived. The Veneto Region has currently suspended the vaccination obligation on its territory against an active offer of vaccinations that is among the best in Italy and the first in Europe, provided through a network of public services and a constant understanding with pediatricians of free choice. It should also be stressed that any treatment of a health type is, as a rule, voluntary and that the European Union has issued a recommendation on the subject, precisely in relation to vaccines. This is a novelty that is based on the National Vaccine Plan 2005-2007, in which there is a path to overcoming the vaccination obligation. These thirteen vaccinations in many regions are offered free of charge through LEAs. The problem, however, is that the difference between the Region and the Region produces enormous inequalities of access and economic waste. The four compulsory vaccines have approximately 94.5 percent coverage and in 2012, despite being mandatory, they had 96 percent, so with a sharp decline. There is also a similar situation for those recommended, with a coverage of around 86% of the child population. This, despite the objective of the National Vaccine Prevention Plan, was to exceed 95% coverage. So, we're down. The question we ask the Minister is whether, being aware of the situation, he does not intend to intervene in order to set up a working group formed by the scientific societies of pediatrics and infectivology in order to promote guidelines based on medical evidence to ensure a greater assumption of responsibility of the National Health Service, but sharing it with the parents who are called to be involved in demanding the right of their child not to become ill with preventable diseases with the vaccine and therefore no longer to be passive performers of an obligation imposed, in which case there is a risk of a further decrease of vaccinations in the coming years, such as what we have seen. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Lorenzin.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u70	Mr President, I will try to answer it in ten minutes, although it is not easy, because each of these questions deserves an extremely detailed answer. I am indebted to the previous question of an answer - at least a flash - regarding fibromyalgia: we are waiting for cut-offs, and without this it will be difficult for us to put them in the LEA, despite we must give assistance to the people who have this syndrome. As far as multiple chemical sensitivity syndrome is concerned, among other things an extremely particular syndrome, as the questioner, Senator Romano, knows, has already spoken on several occasions both to the Higher Health Council and to the Higher Health Institute. It is really still difficult to identify the disease in such a way that it can be included within the LEA, but I accept the request and also the request that comes from the associations and therefore I undertake to send a new request for examination, in order to have an update of the current scientific data, to the Higher Health Council. As far as the issue of vaccines is concerned, which, as you know, is one of my most important issues as Minister, because I believe that vaccinations are the ABC of public health, I remind everyone of a well-known cartoon where there are two people from the time of Neanderthal, one close to the other. One says: Something's wrong. Our air is clean, our water is pure, we all do a lot of physical exercise, everything we eat is organic, yet none of us live more than thirty years. Here, compared to that period our life expectancy is eighty-five years, at least with regard to women (men a little less), but we are almost all vaccinated. This is the thing that has made the huge difference over the last hundred years and that is why we have to make active policies for mass vaccinations, to maintain the flock effect in our country. The flock effect is especially useful for those children who cannot be vaccinated, either because they are too young or because they have diseases that do not allow them to receive vaccination, to allow them to stay in school or in a community together with other children without risking, at times, unfortunately, their life. This is the basic philosophy for which we must continue to provide information in favour of vaccines and this is the philosophy that led us to the new National Vaccine Plan, which - I want to point out - is funded for about 220 million euros and is in the State-Regions Conference, to ensure a new model of vaccination promotion. As my fellow senators have said, many vaccinations are not compulsory, they are voluntary. It is difficult for citizens to understand the difference between compulsory vaccination and voluntary or optional vaccination, but this is part of a philosophical approach that has now had almost all Western countries since the early 1990s. The National Vaccine Prevention Plan aims to influence this, that is, education and training, not only of the parents of the children who must be vaccinated, but also of health workers. It is therefore absolutely necessary to involve pediatricians of free choice, neonatologists, doctors of general medicine, i.e. those who are the active subjects. In addition, institutional campaigns will start, provided for by the National Plan for the prevention of vaccination, for the promotion of vaccination, but also for a correct information of families regarding the possible adverse effects, which are few, very rare, but on which however, as for any administration of a drug, we have a case study. Parents should therefore be prepared to deal with vaccination with serenity and doctors and paediatricians should be prepared to follow the child in the vaccination phase. This will certainly make not only vaccination safer (which is already safe), but also more welcoming and reassuring for families access to this very important prevention tool. I come now to an extremely interesting question, which Senator Silvestro asked me, about the need to strengthen independent research: I am absolutely convinced of it, because independent research also allows us to disassemble some situations or to have greater certainty about a process that a great state like ours can do nothing but favor. In this regard, the National Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (CCM) of the Ministry of Health has included this topic in the last call that has been funded on some projects. In addition, we have 12 million euros specifically approved in the AIFA calls, precisely for independent research, which they plan to enter into this context. Finally, funding for independent research was also provided in the call for research by the Ministry of Health. This is to say that there is a particular sensitivity in reserving part of the funding for this issue. Among other things, this is also one of the topics we are dealing with in the G7 area and in the debate on the global health security agenda. In this regard, I remember that for the next five years Italy is leader in this sector, so we are adopting, in addition to the new vaccination prevention plan in our country, also measures of comparison at international level and in the countries of which we have the mentoring, according to the G7. Finally, the issue of meningitis and meningococcus C in Tuscany deserves careful communication. Starting from 2015 in Tuscany there have been forty-three cases of meningococcal meningitis C and, unfortunately, we have had previous cases in recent years. The disease has had a trend of this type over the years and the Tuscany Region has intervened in the area in which in particular they have concentrated - indeed, they have concentrated only in that area - the cases of meningitis with a mass vaccination, according to those that were the criteria, that is first the band of the smallest, then the bands adolecenziali. It was then seen that the possibility of contracting the bacterium grew as a hand-to-hand move, until the decision was made to do a mass vaccination. From the first moment, we have followed the trend of what was happening in Tuscany and have been decided and prepared of the special studies to be carried out, even with the buffer to the pharynx, on the people who came to undergo the vaccination. There is therefore a study that is progressing on this. The Institute has been involved and with the Ministry we have called for this kind of procedure, even in previous years. This is certainly a case and it is absolutely interesting, even from the scientific point of view, to try to understand the trend of the outbreaks in this area. However, to reassure the population, I would like to point out that a very large number of citizens have been vaccinated, and we are following the trend not only of vaccination, but also of the studies that will be carried out and that are being carried out, even on people already vaccinated, as regards this area. I turn to the subject of polio and migrants, who have been subjected to me. We have certainly had a certainty in these years: the enormous experience that Italy has acquired on migratory flows. It is probably one of the strongest health experiences in the world, from Mare nostrum onwards. The first point is that viruses do not run on boats but - alas - they run in first class, and we have seen with ebola that this has happened. The second point is that Italy has done an extraordinary job, which is why we should boast internationally and claim the work we have done: we deserve the Nobel Prize. In addition to saving more than 100,000 people from drowning, we screened them, visited them and vaccinated them. In fact, the protocol provides that when these people are taken or arrived in our country, if they do not have the vaccine booklet, we re-vaccinate them. We have therefore guaranteed coverage not only for Italian citizens, but also for those from all over Europe, i.e. countries in which these people have then flown. It is at this point really important that our citizens are vaccinated and that people are subjected to vaccinations and also to the calls of certain types of vaccinations after many years from the last vaccine, as recommended by their doctor. One last thing in this regard is that we had in November a very important WHO meeting in Rome, wanted by us, which provided for a Charter of the Health of Migrants, which was then brought and approved by the United Nations, obviously also approved at European level, so that we make a migrant file and follow it in its movements, having in this way not only the identification of the person, but also evidence of the pathologies or possible vaccinations that the person has found or had in our country or in other hubs. This is extremely important in order to control the health system and to ensure hygiene standards, from the point of view of virus transmission and other, throughout the European context. This was an Italian initiative, by the Ministry of Health, which has received worldwide feedback.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u71	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u74	SILVESTRO (PD). Minister, I am satisfied. I once again stress the importance of following and continuing to implement the funds that are needed for research, as you have just told us, because this is the key element in achieving all the preventive actions, the protection of the system and therefore of the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u77	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Following the assurances and data provided by the Minister of Health, I am satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u80	GAETTI (M5S). The arguments I have put forward on how to gain the confidence of citizens have not been fully answered for reasons of time. However, I believe that this Government does not have the strength to go and influence the elements that are affecting the conflict of interest, that we have seen to be very strong and that are just as important to change the orientation. If it doesn't affect this, I think there's a lot to do on the road. I hope to be disproved by the work that the Ministry will do in the coming months.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u83	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, thank you for what you have said. Professor Umberto Veronesi loved to remember that the Italian medical disaster occurred when the Medical Encyclopedia entered every home, because we potentially became 60 million doctors. What runs on the Internet is incredible: we shouldn't even take aspirin anymore! We thank you for the determination and work you will do for these generations and the next. I am extremely satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u86	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). I'm partially satisfied. However, I must highlight two points. The first is that even if we put all compulsory vaccinations - apart from that it is a mistake to put non-compulsory vaccinations together with mandatory vaccinations, especially two-month hepatitis, which I believe no child will ever take - 95% coverage is purely ideological. In fact, even if we vaccine the entire population, we know that those who are vaccinated after a while lose their cover, because it is not 100%; they should be revenged, but we do not know how long the cover lasts because we are not soldiers, but we are one different from the other. The other aspect is that it is true that the Neanderthal man lived thirty years and we live many more, but it is also true that when there was Kosovo and we had many people, even vaccinated, in refugee camps, there were again epidemics. This means that it is mainly the sanitary conditions that allow us to avoid taking infectious diseases. Then, without a doubt, the vaccinations made in a logical way are useful, but bear in mind that if we give incentives to doctors to vaccinate, it remains difficult that a patient does not ask: but you vaccinate me because he earns more?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u89	D'ANNA (AL-A). Minister, of course I am always addressing you by telegram (we should change this Rules of Procedure to the Senate, because we either give Morse signals or send telegrams). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There's live TV. D'ANNA (AL-A). I am satisfied with your response or your determination on vaccines. Time has not allowed me to exhaust the arguments related to the previous topic and therefore, in the third line, I tell you that not only the polysurgists where vaccinations are done or the specialist visits do not have the decree of opening and functioning, but much of the public structures do not transmit through SOGEI to the MEF the summary of the activities. You only have the data of accredited public and private health facilities. In view of the fact that you have to deal with the MEF gentlemen, see to it that the data panel that deals with the Ministry also includes those of the public structures, including the vaccination centres.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u92	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Minister, I am pleased with your reply. My hope is that there will be no further cuts in public health, because, given the cuts of these years, we have seen directors of ASLs making cuts on recommended vaccines and, as a result, we have had in various ASLs, scattered across the country, important issues, such as four years ago related to the measles epidemic, when about 25,000 people have been affected in southern Italy and there have been ten deaths. The hope is that at least there will be no cuts in public finance on vaccinations, otherwise it would really be a disaster.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u95	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, I am pleased with the timely answer you have given to my question. That is exactly what I wanted: a rigorous scientific response, in a very thorough assessment of a subject that questions and in which positions are certainly controversial. To re-open the issue to the attention of the Higher Health Council is what I asked for and thank you for the attention you have given me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u96	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Lorenzin for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u97	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-596.ana.u98	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 22 March, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.12 p.m.
