ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u4	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00620, tabled by Senator Vaccari and other senators, 1-00629, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00630, presented by Senator Nugnes and other senators, 1-00631, presented by Senator Marinello and other senators, 1-00632, presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, 1-00633, presented by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, 1-00634, presented by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, and 1-00635, presented by Senator Barani and other senators, on the "Casa Italia" project. I call Senator Vaccari to explain motion 620.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u9	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Conference of Leaders for putting this motion and its subject on the agenda, which is certainly not exhaustive in terms of content but useful in opening a fruitful debate with the Government. A little over thirty days have passed since 24 August 2016, when a earthquake of magnitude 6.0 hit a large portion of the central Apennines between the Provinces of Rieti, Ascoli Piceno and Perugia and involved several dozen municipalities located in the regions Lazio, Marche, Umbria and Abruzzo causing the greatest damage in the municipalities of Amatrice, Accumoli and Arquata del Tronto. The National Civil Protection System has once again responded with efficiency and effectiveness since the very first moments following the earthquake, proving itself to be the flagship of our country and to it goes our most heartfelt thanks. At this moment the work of the Civil Protection and the government commissioner for reconstruction Vasco Errani is proceeding jointly, linking the responses to the emergency to the path of reconstruction to allow a prompt return to normality for citizens and businesses, and the start of the first phase of temporary housing. We believe that the Government has worked and is working well and that today it serves to direct the reconstruction procedure of the affected territories around five key imperatives: maximum quality and efficiency of the interventions, with the greatest possible respect for the identity of the places and buildings; democracy, through a responsibility of the local communities and all the institutional levels present, relying on the responsibility of the elected; transparency, through computer platforms for the management of all the resources and the timely reporting of the interventions; legality, through the creation of mechanisms of selection and control of the companies responsible for the works; fairness, or payment of the due to the citizens and the enterprises of all the affected communities. In this direction we must appreciate the work of listening to the so-called Casa Italia project, as well as the choice of coordination entrusted to Professor Giovanni Azzone, rector of the Politecnico di Milano, with the support of other skills and experiences. We believe that the project must start, however, from a serious verification of past experiences that, despite a thousand difficulties and errors, our country has been able to realize, with the aim of defining not so much models, but those corrections of method and content that allow to launch and realize a plan with important and certain results. The Group of the Democratic Party wanted to bring to the attention of the House and the Government some political points of direction which it considers to be a priority, and which it hopes can also be shared by the other Groups. Firstly, the further improvement of the National Civil Protection System, through support for a rapid conclusion of the parliamentary process of the draft law delegation, currently under consideration by the Commissions and 13th Senate, in order to improve a system that already represents Italian excellence, but which needs important simplifications, completing the definition of the roles and competences of the Regions, local authorities, volunteering and citizenship. Secondly, we need to make the preventive rules aimed at the seismic improvement of buildings more effective, which are already contained in several measures adopted over the past few years, such as the regulations for the safety of school buildings, which this Government has wanted to support in a concrete way. The figure of EUR 963 million, although significant compared to the past, represents a minimum percentage of the need for complete seismic adjustment of public and private buildings and strategic infrastructure. I am also thinking of the opportunities offered by tax rules, such as ecobonus. It was precisely this measure that was discussed in this House a few months ago that it was effective and the Government undertook to give it continuity for three years in order to support the renovations and energy requalifications of the condominiums as well. In our view, existing criteria and mechanisms could be changed and simplified, extending incentives to 65% also to seismic adjustments and consolidations, providing specific rules for the incompetent. Thirdly, we ask the Government to plan the multi-annual need for public and private resources, in order to give follow-up and continuity over time to the proposals included in the Casa Italia project, indicating immediately the withdrawal measures to be foreseen in the financial instruments already under discussion for 2017. There has been talk of earthquake-bonus, but we are not interested in a nominal dispute as much as the substance of the acts. We think that we can consider the extension of the mechanism hypothesized by ENEA for the interventions of energy efficiency of the condominiums also to the safety anti-seismic. Finally, we believe that it is necessary to support the national anti-seismic prevention plan identified in 2009, with other strategic choices concerning the adoption of the building file and the compulsory seismic certification. As a Democratic Party, at the first signature of my colleague, Mr Filippi, we presented on the subject two specific bills: one containing provisions for the reduction of the seismic vulnerability of historic centers; the other for the seismic adaptation of private buildings for residential use and, therefore, the establishment of the building file. These are concrete proposals, the result of the contribution of many competences that we put at the disposal of Parliament and the Government to give solid legs to some of the future choices of the Casa Italia project: a project that stands to become ambitious, forward-looking and strategic for the security of our country. Investing resources in prevention, even non-structural ones, rather than in the repair of damages, means investing in the future of the citizens and businesses of this country. It is a challenge that we can all win together by combining the best Italian skills, intelligences and experiences at the service of a good common cause. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u10	I call Senator De Petris to explain motion No 629.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u11	Mr President, I should like to begin by expressing my solidarity and sympathy for the victims in the debate on the motions before us. Today the time has come, after the first phase of emergency after earthquake and of assistance and assistance to the affected populations, to face the delicate and long phase of reconstruction. The speed and correctness of the reconstruction work must be ensured and the government must give immediate legal certainty. President Renzi was announced here today, but I do not see him. He is obviously not interested in listening to the debate on our motions. As I said, the government must immediately guarantee legal certainty as regards both the modalities and timing of the interventions and the guarantees on the resources that will be made available in the coming years. It is essential to avoid the serious risk of a reconstruction that is not transparent and managed by the Government in an autonomous and overly centralised way. It is necessary, in fact, to guarantee the constant and full participation, as well as the consent of the local authorities and communities in the choices of reconstruction and eventual urban transformation. It still weighs on us and on those populations the experience of the Eagle. Regarding the way of reconstruction, it is necessary to promote the reconstruction of the lost heritage, in the original conditions for types and use of materials, and in any case in coherence with the traditional architecture, safeguarding certainly the buildings of historical and artistic value, but also the complexes and individual buildings and artifacts not only of ancient formation, even if not of particular architectural value, but representative of the history and culture of the agricultural communities. It will therefore be necessary to face a series of nodes - I say it now - including the fact that precisely in the villages, in the historical centers of Amatrice, Accumoli and all the others, we will very often face those defined second houses, that is the houses that belong to the families for generations. It is necessary to give priority to the local economy and to have regard to its recovery. It may be necessary to consider how to favour local businesses and labour because, while ensuring respect for transparency and competition, specific measures must be identified in support of local entrepreneurship and employment, as closely as possible involving them in the reconstruction of the territory. But it is up to us today to finally address the issue of prevention. The frequent calamitous events that affect our country highlight the dramatic fragility of our territory and the need for an improcrastinable total safety of the buildings and the territory itself. This for us is the real, great public work that the country needs. And I say this forcefully at the moment when absurd works such as the bridge over the Strait are relaunched: the absolute priority for this country is the protection of its territory and the safety of buildings to save the lives and beauty of Italy. Italy is one of the countries with the highest seismic risk both in Europe and worldwide, and this depends not only on the frequency and intensity of earthquakes, but also on the high vulnerability of the building heritage. The culture of prevention, which would limit the dramatic effects of natural events, has been lacking and is lacking in our country. In the motion to which I was first a signatory, we made a quick review of the resources that would be needed. Most Italian real estate assets are not adequate to withstand the impact of an earthquake. Securing public buildings would cost EUR 40 billion and this figure could rise to EUR 90 billion, if all buildings are taken into account, including private buildings. Against this expense we must reason that, from 1968 to today, earthquakes have cost the country 150 billion euros and more than 5,000 deaths. These are the data that tell us that we should have no doubts and that we should immediately present a ten-year plan for the security of the territory, which would allow a safe and secure investment. I would like to point out that, only in the three years 2010-2012, more than EUR 3.5 billion has been spent per year on earthquakes. Our territory is so articulated: only the areas with high seismic risk - defined as zone 1 and 2 - make up about 44 percent of the national territory and affect 36% of the municipalities, where 22 million people live. It is only from these figures that the urgency and priority of the works for safety is well understood. Interventions can be articulated in many ways, through - for example - a ten-year investment plan, which would allow us to have serious planning. In addition to the seismic risk, there is also the other urgency that we have faced several times in this House, which is the hydrogeological risk. There is therefore no need for commercial interventions, but there is a need for structured and serious planning, made up of public investments, but also for a different culture of prevention and different training of construction companies. It would also be absolutely necessary to put in place a system of incentives and tax advantages, to be applied already in the reconstruction phase, which could be used above all to articulate the prevention plan and measures to secure the territory. We should intervene immediately on the so-called eco bonus, i.e. the tax deduction of 65% on anti-seismic interventions, eliminating the limit of 96,000 euros and, above all, bringing the installment period from ten years to three or five years. It is therefore necessary to guarantee the full deductibility of 65% of the costs for the seismic adaptation of the condominiums; finally take initiatives to provide for the mandatory establishment of the building file and immediately extend the system of tax reliefs for the buildings located in zones 1 and 2 - those with the highest seismic risk - not only to the main houses, but also to the second houses. There should therefore be a combination of interventions, with a combination of public investment and tax relief, in order to arrive quickly at an anti-seismic adjustment plan. Mr President, we have witnessed many times, after the tragedy, the deaths and the destruction, the good intentions of the State and the governments that have succeeded each other over time, but unfortunately nothing has happened at all. I very much hope that this time we can really change, because I repeat that we have the absolute urgency and the need to safeguard our country. We talk very often about the beauty of our country, but on this beauty we must invest, because it is linked to the security of the territory and human lives. We can no longer afford continuous deaths and tragedies, where it would be absolutely possible - and a serious country can only do this - to articulate a plan. An imaginary project, called Casa Italia, was presented. We really hope - we do not say it by party - that it is not the usual propaganda and that today, finally, not only with the motions that we present but also by the Government, there will be the presentation of a plan of structured prevention. We don't want to die anymore. We no longer want the destruction of our countries and our territory. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u12	I call Senator Nugnes to explain motion No 630.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u13	Mr President, from the reading of the motions before us, it seems that everyone in this House has very clear what is necessary and urgent to do. Yet, after thirty-five years since the 1980 earthquake, we still find ourselves crying dead and destroyed, since - we all know - we are still here today, in 2016, for the earthquake of 24 August that, at 3.36, shaken the Marche, Umbria, Lazio and Abruzzo regions, for a earthquake of magnitude 6. There are ten municipalities involved; 295 dead; 386 injured and 4,450 homeless and otherwise placed. We clearly have very serious problems for companies, especially agro-zootechnics, which only in the area of Amatrice are more than 600. There's damage to corporate buildings, and road damage creates further damage. And since the populations are experiencing hardship, the lower the demand and therefore there is damage also from the point of view of production. What does the government do? He has earmarked for the moment 50 million euros from the Fund for the national emergency; he has again appointed Errani extraordinary commissioner, despite the serious critical issues raised for the management of the earthquake of Emilia-Romagna. He said that he will prolong for three years - his goodness, after the years we are repeating it - the ecobonus also regarding the anti-seismic adaptation of buildings. He then announced a not better specified home project for the future. It is necessary to take clear and urgent measures immediately, on the one hand, for the specific case, and therefore to bring refreshment to those territories; on the other hand, by establishing a single national protocol of intervention so that no action is taken on a case-by-case basis. A rotating fund must be provided for in the next law of stability, in order to support even minor interventions for the repair, restoration and reconstruction of buildings. Steps must be taken to provide compensation for damaged productive activities. Although Europe has assessed them as state aid, we need to find a way to help companies recover and recover from the damage they have suffered. It is necessary to act to create an urban free zone in those areas; to promote tools of participation in the reconstruction, and to be sure that those who will collaborate in the reconstruction - companies who want to participate, also for private contracts - are part of a controlled list that has a collaboration with the clear prefecture (white list, although they also present many problems). All activities must be prepared so that the states of emergency do not directly or indirectly favour the speculative and corruptive phenomena we know well. I would like to focus on prevention. We must understand that if we do not want to be in this House next year or in two years' time - it will not be us, but someone else - who is still talking about emergency and urgent decrees, we must create a clear prevention plan. Since 1980 we have had a map of the seismicity of our territory which must certainly be adapted, because there are areas that are not properly classified. According to this paper, however, at least 24 million people live in areas with high seismic risk. What do we do? Let's put the excise duty on. Over forty-eight years, five different excise duties have been imposed on the cost of petrol, which is also a brake on the use of private cars. In forty-eight years, 145 billion have been obtained from excise duties on petrol for reconstruction, but this amount represents much more than twice the total cost of reconstruction. In fact, the National Council of Engineers estimated the total cost of rebuilding from Belice in November 2014, considering seven calamitous events, excluding that of Umbria, which is the eighth. On the other hand, we have earned 145 billion from excise duties. Despite the money and the urgent decrees, every time we are absolutely unprepared. We come to such events as if it were the first time and we are making new decrees of urgency. Yet, the picture is very clear. We have extremely alarming data. Seismic engineer Alessandro Martelli estimated that 80 percent of buildings in Italy are not suitable. It has been estimated that one in three schools falls into areas with high and medium seismic risk, but that only 8 percent are adequate to withstand a high magnitude seismic shock. Therefore, our children attend inadequate schools every day, taking a high risk, and we absolutely do not take care to secure them. It would suffice to initiate the order of the President of the Council of 2003 which assessed the need to classify structures in our territory, to give clear technical standards for constructions in seismic zones, an anti-seismic classification to buildings and, above all, to quantify the resources necessary for the adaptation of earthquakes. We have not implemented this plan; we have not put our hands on this very important work. We lack the base, because we have to update the seismic map of the whole territory and have a certain mapping of buildings of public and private heritage, to arrive at an anti-seismic classification of buildings. We need the building file, and I want to dwell on that. It is essential to give an assessment, as is the case for the energy class, regarding the class anti-seismic building per building. An engineer, whose name I unfortunately do not remember now, said that it would be necessary that, close to the name plate of the street civic, the anti-seismic classification of each building should also be affixed, in order to have a clear picture of our heritage and also to attribute a commercial value to it. The building file should be like some kind of pedigree in the building. In Italy we already have a territorial computer system and we should only implement it throughout the territory, in order to have clearly, through a simple consultation on the computer, all the information about the building, to know all the legal obligations to put it in safety to know how much it consumes energy and what is the seismic risk to which it incurs if you go in it to live. It is therefore necessary for the Government to put its hands on the funds in order to prepare this project. We can no longer improvise, we can no longer make commercials that have an annual or three-year term. It is necessary to create a national fund for the implementation of the building's obligatory file and a special fund for the anti-seismic adaptation of all the real estate and, in an appropriate period of time, to make the building's file a mandatory document, in real estate transactions and for all requests for building permits. In fact, I need to know where I am putting my hand and which is the anti-seismic classification of that building before making any volumetric increases (which can now also be done with a SCIA or with CILA), which is very serious, because you will not know where you are acting. It is also necessary to prepare the appropriate legislative instruments aimed at inhibiting the sale of buildings without the building file and therefore it is necessary to computerize through the SIT, the territorial information system at national level, the map of buildings located in seismic zones and at hydrogeological risk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Nugnes. NUGNES (M5S). Yes, ma'am. I wanted to finish reading my speech but apparently I don't have the time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If you wish, you can hand over the text of the speech to the House so that it can be appended to today's Minutes. NUGNES (M5S). I would just like to add that it is not the earthquake that kills, but the inadequacy of our real estate and our territory on a hydrogeological level. So it's our fault we still have to cry about the dead. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u14	I call Senator Marinello to explain motion 631.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u15	Mr President, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the Government, today's debate is about a very serious issue that does not require rhetoric, populism or demagogy. It is an issue on which Parliament will have to speak today and, in my view, it will have to do so in the most uniform way possible to make a serious contribution, through an act of direction which constitutes a kind of work programme for the Government. We owe all this, seriousness of approach, not only to the victims of the earthquake of 24 August but to all the victims of natural disasters - especially earthquakes - that have occurred in our country since the earthquake of Belice in 1968. Well, on 24 August, this huge tragedy took place. The country's response was ready. Once again, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have done their utmost: representatives of the institutions, the Army, civil protection, the Red Cross and voluntary associations. But the government's response was also ready: already on 25 August the statement of the state of emergency was issued with a first allocation of 50 million euros for the prompt intervention and the appointment of Vasco Errani as extraordinary commissioner for reconstruction. In addition, the date of 6 September for the Casa Italia programme has been identified, which is not a slogan but represents an overall strategy that includes not only the security of the building heritage, whether public or private, but also the linking of all preventive measures, not only those related to buildings but also to our territory. It is an ambitious programme, the cost of which is estimated at around 100 billion investments and which certainly requires several decades to be completed. Finally, the date of 31 October for the submission of the completed project was identified. But the contribution that we want to make today (of which in our motion we have represented the main points) is of ideas and availability, through a series of commitments that we suggest to the Government that they go towards a simplification of the procedures of reconstruction of the earthquake areas in Amatrice and in the other countries concerned to ensure that they define, in absolute harmony with the local communities, not only - precisely - the procedures but above all the modalities. We are of the idea that we must reconstruct what it was and where it was, certainly respecting the environment, the quality and the architectural identity existing, protecting the landscape, trying, in one word, not to disperse the memory of those populations. Among other things, this earthquake had a fundamental characteristic: the inhabitants of those areas were mainly made up of people who went there periodically: in fact, it is mainly a matter of second houses. This earthquake, in fact, serves to change an approach that politics has always had towards these disasters, overcoming the taboo of differentiation between first and second homes. We have a duty to give an answer in certain times, but we also have a duty to avoid what - alas - happened previously in our country. I am referring to the robberies, corruption, the attention of the mafias who, in cases of this kind, as torms of jackals venture in search of an easy profit and an easy loot. But I, Mr President, am not at all afraid of this, because a serious state must never be afraid of such matters. There are the means and instruments to prevent predation: the means and instruments are there and then, clearly, each of us must do our duty. The duty of politics is to assume responsibility, without if, without but without fear. The duty of the judiciary and law enforcement is to protect the law and, in any case, to enforce it. There will also be the contribution of the Anti-Corruption Authority even if, personally, I belong to those who believe that the Anti-Corruption Authority cannot and should not be evoked at every step, but it must represent a response to emerging situations, a response, perhaps preventive, in identifying ways that encourage transparency and that safeguard legality, but that it cannot and should never replace the primacy of politics. We have a duty, Mr President, to avoid what has happened in vast areas of the country in previous experiences. That is, we have the duty to avoid that the earthquake areas become places of experimentation and, perhaps, a place of free architectures, against which I have absolutely nothing against but which, in areas of the country and in previous experiences, have created real discrasies with the language of the territories and, therefore, the consciences of the citizens earthquaked. Earthquakes who, in some cases, have been earthquakeed twice: disassembled for the natural disaster and disassembled for the intervention of the state in this absolutely disastrous matter. In our motion we identified the technical means. I am convinced that the law of stability is an important opportunity. We must proceed with the security of public buildings, private buildings, our artistic and cultural heritage. And we must proceed quickly. Of course, the country can no longer wait for the delays of politics and, above all, the distraction of the state. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Pelino to explain motion No 632.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u16	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting this morning to talk about an issue that affects the sensitivity of all of us: the tragic earthquake that struck Central Italy during a night that was supposed to be a typical and serene summer night and which instead turned into a nightmare for thousands of people. The consequences were very heavy: entire municipalities and surrounding fractions were razed to the ground: Amatrice, Accumoli, Arquata del Tronto, Acquasanta Terme, Montegallo, Montemonaco, Montefortino and Amandola are the municipalities most affected in terms of loss of human lives and are the ones that have suffered the most serious damage to public, historical and private buildings. We had the opportunity to commemorate, at the beginning of September, here in this House, the loss of almost 300 of our Italians who died that bad night and it is never too late to turn a thought to all the families who mourn the disappearance of their loved ones. In addition to the closeness and solidarity that we can express, we know that we are the representatives of the institutions and this does not exempt us from having to carry out our fundamental task, that is to monitor the plan that the Government intends to put in place for the reconstruction of all the territories that, at one stroke, have turned into sad accumulations of rubble. We at Forza Italia express appreciation for how the Government has managed the emergency phase, thanks also to the extraordinary work of the fire department, the Alpine Rescue, the Civil Protection and many, many volunteers. With their unceasing commitment 238 people have been extracted alive. Similarly, we consider appropriate and timely the assistance that has been offered to the 3,000 displaced citizens who have found refuge in the camps, facilities or hotels. I have followed this sad story closely, but I have often come across comments that lead to error. It is known that when a fact similar to another occurs, there is a tendency to make comparisons. I must admit that I find this operation somewhat simplistic and inappropriate. We hear of the parallelism between this last natural catastrophe and the one that struck my Abruzzo in April 2009, or the one that affected Emilia-Romagna in May 2012. It is a purely theoretical exercise, because the reality, in my humble opinion, is that every fact has particular characteristics that distinguish it from the others. So much so that a simple element well explains the inadequacy of describing the different situations through the rivers of ink and words, using comparative comparisons. The earthquake that struck Abruzzo, and the Eagle in particular, caused about 60,000 displaced people, a figure much higher than the 3,000 of the earthquake this summer. Not only that, but also the different spatial configuration is an element that does not facilitate comparison. Whether it is 60,000 or 3,000, our duty, first of all of the Government, is to prepare a plan for reconstruction, which is extended, in addition to the rebuilding and restoration of housing, to the entrepreneurial fabric, which is the first engine to be rekindled to restart the economy of the affected territories. Therefore, the Government must commit itself to constant monitoring of every phase of reconstruction and to continuous and meticulous control during the execution of the works, especially in order to avoid infiltration by organized crime and, moreover, to prevent public resources being wasted; moreover, what is rebuilt or renovated must be absolutely safe. In our opinion, there is no time to waste. In fact, we ask the Government and President Renzi - whom I welcome at the moment - to allocate, already from the next budgetary session, the appropriate resources to start and ensure reconstruction. There is an estimated EUR 4 billion of damage and it is therefore necessary to start immediately. As for our citizens, we at Forza Italia ask that everything be done to promote, in a short time, the return to the normality of their daily lives. In order to achieve this result it is necessary that the Government, in addition to having decided to suspend tax payments and tax obligations for all taxpayers (natural persons, entrepreneurs, legal persons), undertakes to extend the tax umbrella to several other cases, which have not been taken into account in the decree of the Minister of the Economy. For example, the suspension of VAT payments for all reconstruction interventions and the suspension of the payment of INPS and INAIL contributions. In conclusion, it should be noted to the Government that the emergency phase has been adequately managed. It must be said, however, that the stage of reconstruction is the most delicate, demanding and difficult. The motion tabled by the Forza Italia Group intends to contribute to identifying the priorities to be addressed and how to do so. In this respect, I hope that our motion will be accepted, in all its elements, by the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u17	I call Senator Bruni to explain motion 633 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u18	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the earthquake of 24 August 2016, which hit the territory of the regions of Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria, has had devastating effects, causing the complete destruction of many houses in the municipalities of Amatrice and Accumoli and in their hamlets and creating significant damage to public and private buildings in the municipalities of Arquata del Tronto, Acquasanta Terme, Montegallo and Montemonaco. The numbers of the tragedy, which have been mentioned several times in this House and which I abstain from repeating, describe in their objectivity the dimensions of the drama of 24 August last. In the days following the tragedy, the government announced a series of measures, some of which appear to have already been outlined in the stability bill, such as the extension of tax incentives for restructuring and energy efficiency. Other measures, on the other hand, will be part of the Casa Italia project. These interventions, which at the moment are only announced and which we will be able to assess in their real scope beyond, range from measures for prevention to interventions on schools, from actions to remedy the hydrogeological failure to the recovery of the suburbs and the housing of the people, until the restructuring of the infrastructures and the transports that, as we have seen in the news of the past weeks, have been strongly affected. On April 12, the Senate approved a package of motions, including the one presented by the Conservative and Reformist Group, which committed the Government to give stability, for the three-year period 2017-2019, to the tax relief of 65% planned for the energy redevelopment of buildings. The theme of seismic prevention in Italy is the nerve point on which even the best civil protection and emergency intervention plan must be confronted, since in Italy 70 percent of the buildings were built before 1974 (the year in which the first national anti-seismic norms came into force) and considered the high seismic risk affecting 44 percent of the national surface, with 36 percent of the municipalities and one third of the population involved. Over the past fifty years, the economic damage caused by seismic events has been estimated at around €240 billion and has required public interventions of more than €120 billion. Just this halved figure gives the sense of tragedy in the tragedy that often these seismic events carry. From 1968 to today there are eight great earthquakes that have devastated our country - from the earthquake of the Belice of 1968 to that of Amatrice - with 4,900 victims and about 692,000 displaced. In the light of the literature available on seismic risk and given the many experiences of the past, each long-term prevention plan must be carefully considered in order not to run the risk that, between the occurrence of natural disasters and reconstruction interventions, actions or intervention programmes will be put in place that annihilate the local economy of the affected areas, deserting their social contexts. I think this is a concern of the government, as well as of all political forces. In defining mapping operations of the most endangered areas to intervene before others with complex and articulated plans, it is therefore necessary to proceed with extreme caution, aware of the long time necessary to carry out the announced interventions, which then take place perhaps after a decade, with the inevitable collapse of the value of the buildings and the reduction of industrial investments and tourist and productive activities in general. The first objective to be achieved is therefore not to abandon the territory, i.e. not to favour one type of intervention before another. It is necessary to coordinate in an organic way the phases of the reconstruction of the first houses, of the second houses (which, even in the case of the newly affected municipalities, are important, because they maintain a bond between those who may have come to live in Rome and try to return to their birthplaces), of the productive structures (including the tourist-receptive ones) and of the public infrastructures, so as not to interrupt those ties of which I said before. It should also be stressed that the recent experiences of natural disasters that our country has experienced, with particular reference to the last seismic events in Marche, Umbria and Abruzzo, see the citizens continue to fight with malaburocracy, that is, with a very slow bureaucracy, to access the funds for reconstruction. In the worst cases the resources allocated to reconstruction have ended without the various central and regional governments taking turns allocating new ones. It is obvious - but it is worth remembering and committing the Government to this - that maximum transparency must be ensured in the management of resources and in the implementation of works. For all these reasons, with our motion we call on the Government to make a strong commitment to provide for the stabilization of tax bonuses of 50% for the expenses incurred in the renovation of buildings and 65% for energy efficiency, as we have also tried to do with the motion approved in May by the Senate. We also call for special measures to be taken to redevelopment and anti-seismic adaptation of all public buildings, giving particular priority to health and school structures and, if necessary (of course, it will be) intervening in the European Commission to find other resources. We also call for a commitment from the Government to enable Parliament to know and monitor, with the appropriate instruments (which may be the competent Commissions) on the state of the reconstruction of the earthquake of 24 August 2016, with particular reference to the economic resources committed. We would also like the Government to provide for measures for the prevention and recovery of the hydrogeological failure, which has been announced several times, but never really implemented. We also ask that the Government be able to guarantee special measures for the detection of the actual completion of reconstructions of damage caused by calamitous events of the last fifty years, in order to complete the works undertaken and the reconstructions of public and private buildings still not realized. Finally, Mr President, we call for a commitment to provide for a mapping of national territory, so as to know the location of serious enticements and disabled people who, in the event of an emergency, are unable to walk independently, in order to activate specific forms of emergency assistance and assistance to ensure their safety. In this sense, we presented a text 2 of our motion to the House this morning. [[Applause from the CoR Group and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u19	I call Senator Candiani to explain motion 634 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u20	Mr President, the situation is particularly important, serious and burdensome and we must all be involved in a heartfelt appeal to the Government to consider the earthquake as a whole. What happened on this occasion in Central Italy, as in all previous circumstances, is not an exceptional event for this country, but it is unfortunately an event that repeats itself over time. To consider this repetition over time as the need to give preventive responses, able to avoid, as happened to Amatrice and the municipalities affected within the seismic crater, the loss of human lives, is a duty that lies above all other political choices. We know that the government is preparing to launch a financial manoeuvre; we expect measures, lines, concrete actions to be contained in this financial manoeuvre... Concrete action, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u21	Go ahead, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u22	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I'm talking to the President of the Council. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You speak to the House. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I speak to you and, through you, to the other senators, but having the President of the Council of Ministers drinking coffee while talking about earthquakes is one thing... PRESIDENT. Senator Candiani, if we were to examine all the behaviors of those who are part of this House, we would have much to say. I would ask you to continue with your speech. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I appeal to you because those who hold the highest positions must set an example: the example we expect is not what we have before us. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The example is exactly what I give by listening to her. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Thank you for your kindness and I must acknowledge that it does not correspond to that of another president. Please continue. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, please, I have a right to express my disappointment. I repeat that I thank you and appreciate your attention, which unfortunately I do not find in another important institutional office, the President of the Council of Ministers. We noticed, among other things, that today's day is all oriented towards the press: we also have photographers in a different position than the usual one, because obviously they must also portray some illustrious senator. And I greet Senator Renzo Piano for his presence, who for the second time since the beginning of the legislature has reached us, with the photographers in his favor, who can of course seal this partnership with President Renzi. President Grasso, we expect serious action from the government, because the earthquake has not only affected those families, but has also devastated a territory, it has changed the life of a generation. In the hours following the calamitous events I went with Senator Arrigoni and other senators to visit those areas and talk to the people in whom I found great dignity. I have found people who, even if again affected by the earthquake, have expressed with great firmness the desire to continue living in those lands, not to bend over events of magnetosis that can be avoided, but that we must consider as part of our way of living in areas of high seismic risk. It is therefore necessary to take preventive action, to act consciously on the risk of an earthquake. At the same time, Mr President, there is a need for action to rebuild the social and urban fabric that has been lost with the seismic event. It will not be enough to rebuild houses with money; it will not be enough because the people living in them are the essence of those countries. They are not only beautiful buildings, but they are countries made by beautiful people, who commit themselves heroically to maintaining, in territories far from the big cities that would otherwise be lost and condemned to decline, a history, a tradition, a way of life, of which we are proud when we make propaganda of Made in Italy abroad, but of which we must be equally aware in this circumstance. In fact, giving support to those populations now is a duty for all citizens and general taxation must be committed seriously, not only to reconstruction but also to allow the socio-economic fabric to be reconstituted. There are considerably different conditions, depending on where the effects of the earthquake are examined, even with paradoxes. If you cross the Apennines you will find yourself in Amatrice, Accumoli, Arquata del Tronto, Illica, in those countries that are completely destroyed and crumbled; but if you look at what happened on the other side, behind the Sibillini Mountains (I think of Norcia and Valnerina), you will find houses still standing, although with people equally devastated from the point of view of economic progression or the possibility of guaranteeing the permanence of the activities on those territories, because the reconstruction done in the years ago, in that case, allowed to save the lives. Examples of what needs to be done, therefore, exist: we must consider them. I have been able to see people taking on their own shoulders the responsibility of thinking about reconstruction, without waiting for the State to come to rebuild, but - as I said before - with great dignity, trying only to have easy rules through which to give their children a continuity in those territories. They are territories characterized by a rural economy, humble and simple, as well as by economies that have evolved overcoming these difficulties already in the past. I think of everything related to tourism, as well as history and tradition that lead us to see recognized throughout the world the tradition of Amatrice and the Umbrian valleys. Mr President, with our motion we call for very simple actions; actions that make these areas fiscally neutral and with special economy, actions that make it possible to rebuild not only the houses, but the economic and social fabric of those territories in order to ensure that, starting from the youngest, there can be a new generation of inhabitants who remain there. Let us not hide that there is also a television narration very far from reality. Let us not forget the disabled, the elderly and those who were born there and who want to stay there. There are not only those who have chosen to move, albeit with a painful choice, on the Adriatic coast, but there are also those who want to stay and continue to stay, at a thousand meters of altitude and with the winter at the gates, because they do not want to abandon their farms and do not want to abandon their homes. We need to give these people maximum support. There are many actions envisaged in this motion, Mr President, and we will have the opportunity to develop its content also in the general debate. We have taken care to go and talk to the citizens of these areas, to gather their demands and their expectations that we deliver to the government by means of this motion. Don't betray them just for a photograph or a selfie in the paper. President Renzi, do not betray them just to have a newspaper consensus: it would be a double death for those who have lost their lives. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u23	I call Senator Mazzoni to explain motion 635.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u24	Mr President, I believe that in dealing with this debate we must start with a fact, namely that the Italian one is an epochal delay in anti-seismic prevention and not because it has not been spent on reconstruction. It is estimated that from 1968 to 2012 121 billion euros were spent, but they were spent with an emerging logic, while an anti-seismic plan involving public and private buildings and the same strategic infrastructure works would cost 100 billion euros and thus save public money and above all save lives. Even the Berlusconi government's instrument in 2009 after the terrible earthquake in L'Aquila proved insufficient: the prevention fund from 2010 to 2016 allocated 965 million euros, which according to a civil protection report were completely insufficient, not even covering 1% of the needs that would be necessary for the complete earthquake-proof adjustment of all buildings. The guidelines of the Government after the earthquake of Central Italy in August seem quite outlined: reconstruction respecting the identities of the places, involving the communities, but above all without exceptions to the code of contracts and only with companies enrolled in the lists of merit of the DAC, open data to monitor the interventions and the use of the 15 million euro collected with donations, policies of support to the enterprises and urban planning. These are guidelines that the Government intends to follow for reconstruction and are sincerely acceptable lines to escape from the emerging logic with which previous earthquakes and other natural disasters have been addressed in the past decades. Another criterion we agree with is the transparent mechanism for the recognition of damage. In fact, all the damage that emerged from the technical checks will be recognized wherever they occurred, so we will not only compensate for the damage that occurred in the crater of the earthquake, but also those that the earthquake caused farther from the epicenter. Within the year the guidelines on the seismic classification of buildings should arrive and it is good that we do not go any further in time because, as I have already said, too much has been lost, not after this earthquake, but with the delays accumulated in so many decades in which important sums have been spent without ever launching a great plan of anti-seismic consolidation. The Commissioner for Reconstruction Errani announced the Government's will to create a virtuous mechanism based on strengthened and simplified fiscal incentives to have the maximum adherence to the anti-seismic adjustment program also by banks and public bodies. The second houses and condominiums will also benefit from the earthquake bonus, but also the local authorities that will have to secure public buildings, starting obviously from those of strategic interest, including, in the foreground, schools. One point that needs to be addressed is that of the building file, which for too long has remained a dead letter. It is absolutely necessary to make it compulsory without this bureaucratic shift affecting the budgets of families too much. The solution could be to include expenditure on compiling the building file in the 50% bonus on renovations. With our motion we have tried to make a contribution of proposals in order to arrive in the medium and long term to the complete anti-seismic adaptation of all the public and private buildings, and of course of the infrastructural and strategic works, in order to avoid new catastrophic destructions and above all new victims. I would like to comment on two points in particular, namely the commitments which we asked the Government in our motion for a resolution, which I hope will be accepted. We have asked first of all to consider the possibility of introducing compulsory house insurance, which is totally tax deductible, which also covers, among others, the risks arising from natural disasters. We have also asked to imagine a kind of insurance for civil liability on the house that can be deducted from taxes, providing, alongside the indispensable public intervention, for the entry on stage of third parties such as insurance companies, subject to the coordination of a public authority, which, in order to protect their interests, would obviously be encouraged to push the insured to responsible behaviour, in order to contain the effects of disasters of nature. There are also other points that affect the transparency of contracts and the planning of long-term interventions; in fact, it is not possible for Italy to remain behind countries such as Turkey and Chile, which, while having a much lower quality of housing, have already started thirty-year plans of demolitions and reconstructions. Finally, certainly not for importance, it is necessary to avoid the risk of possible malavitous infiltrations in the event of post-earthquake reconstructions, avoiding also the risk that contracts are awarded to improvised entrepreneurs; in fact, we are talking about strategic works that will have to save lives and that cannot be entrusted to improvised companies. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u25	I call Senator De Petris to explain the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u26	Mr President, I apologise for speaking again, but Senator Bignami, first party to the agenda, cannot be present today. The G1 agenda is very timely and concerns an emergency. As we have seen in the experience of the earthquake of August 24, but also earlier, the presence of many people with disabilities is a further emergency in the general drama. This agenda calls for the possibility to modulate assistance and, therefore, in some way also the training of firemen and civil protection volunteers themselves to ensure that there is a specific competence to treat people with disabilities and, therefore, have more difficulties than others. It therefore calls for the Government to be able to provide for specific forms of emergency assistance and assistance in favour of the disabled, which, as we have seen, in the event of an emergency are not able to ride independently, and for those who cannot provide for their own safety. There are already experiences at international level in this regard, and I believe that this is not a small thing, but a further aid at a time of training and prevention in such dramatic situations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u27	I call Senator Centinario to explain the agenda G2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u28	Mr President, given that and given that there are few funds available in this country, despite the fact that Minister Galletti says otherwise in television broadcasts; given and considering that in this historical moment we need to think more about emergencies than about pre- referendum electoral boutades by a President of the Council who will soon promise the salary to my son who is one year old, we believe that, today as today, there is a work that, as he has said on more than one occasion who is ruling this country, does not fall among the priorities of our country: I speak of the Bridge on the Strait of Messina. The priorities of those territories, of those countries and of those Regions, for those who know them and not for those who go there to get singing songs from school students, are the construction of new roads and railways, or at least their improvement so that they are at the forefront or at least at the level of all other European countries. So the priority is not the bridge over the Strait of Messina. Given all this and the topic we are talking about and considering that the economic estimate for the construction of the Bridge on the Strait (as we said and as is repeated by all) is 8 billion euros and that the estimated costs for the reconstruction of the earthquake areas are estimated in about 4 billion, our proposal is that, instead of the Bridge on the Strait of Messina, the 8 billion euros are spent on the reconstruction in the earthquake areas and the earthquake-proof settlement of the territories classified as seismic areas. This is a constructive and not an electoral proposal, as everything else is being done at the moment. We also think that a lot of money could be saved: instead of sending Minister Boschi on tour in South America, maybe that money could have been used to give a small signal in those areas. But - alas - we are talking about opportunities and choices, and unfortunately those who come to this House to drink tea do not have the sensitivity of those who are experiencing those dramas. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u29	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Piano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u30	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I have a project and I would say that it is a bit strong, because on a subject such as the earthquake we need something else. I have a project, not as an architect, but as a senator for life, and I believe that it is the only thing with which a senator for life can be useful in this House. For three years I have been working (here next to, on the first floor of Palazzo Giustiniani, in room 24) on the outskirts: it is a great theme, which belongs to our times. But there is one issue that is even more urgent and pressing: that of the earthquake. I intend to do this project not as an architect but as a senator for life, using my working group. So let it be clear that I don't need anything; I only need what I already receive as an emolument as a senator for life. That's all I need. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Repetti]] It is important that this project is long-term. Of course I understand: there is a tragedy, a tragedy that happened a few weeks ago. But it is a project that goes further, a generational project, which must last perhaps two generations, fifty years. I am referring to a long-term project: the project to safeguard the country and its residential heritage from the earthquake. This is the real project. The house, therefore: I would like to take care of the house. I do not say that to limit the ground, because of course there are other great themes. I say this not to limit efforts, but to concentrate them. I am a very practical person and I know that we must concentrate our efforts to achieve the result. I would like to concentrate on the house, because it is the refuge of all. The house is a refuge, but it is also the place of silence. After all, we all spent our lives coming home, every week, every month, every day. The house is the refuge, the place of silence, where you find yourself. It is not imaginable that it is not a safe place: it is safe by definition. This is the reason why I believe that this generational project is important and, all in all, it is perhaps a job suitable for a senator for life, because I will be here until field and I would like the spotlight not to be turned off on this topic. One of the problems, in fact, is that after a while the spotlight turns off and these themes are forgotten. On the other hand, this issue must be kept alive, at least for the next fifty years and perhaps even more so. Let's get to the point: what is this project? I've already worked on these issues and everything has to start with diagnostics. I don't want to bore you with practical matters, but medicine has become more precise, more scientific and more careful, as the diagnosis has become more precise. As they became more precise, surgery became less invasive and destructive. Well, it's kind of what has to happen to homes: the first thing to do is to get out of the dark ground of opinion, where everyone claims that you have to do it one way or another. On the other hand, it is necessary to enter the stable and certain terrain of science and introduce the diagnosis. See that scientific diagnostics exist and also applies to the built, mainly to monuments, as well as in medicine. I tried almost forty years ago, together with UNESCO, using the thermography and the instruments that, among other things, we produce in Italy. Ours is an extraordinary country, where we also produce these instruments: I find them around the world, but they are produced in Italy. Building diagnostics are a starting point, because this precise diagnostic immediately allows you to switch to a light shipbuilding. Again, I don't want to be bored, but the only thing I can be useful in is trying to get into detail. Exactly as in medicine, the more precise the diagnosis, the more light the surgery becomes. Well, we need light construction sites, which are made with different instruments, which did not exist 40 years ago, but which exist today. I assure you that you can make keys, that strengthen the buildings, without destroying them and smashing everything. I don't want to be long, but those of you who understand technique, know what I want to talk about. Welcome to the world of contemporary life. On the theme of home, we must move from the slightly medieval world in which we live, to a world that belongs to us. So why is this diagnostic so important and why is it important to do light construction sites? There is a human reason, very important: in this way people must not be removed from their homes. This is the truth and this is where the inventive element comes into play. You see - you know better than I do - there is a very strong connection between the house and those who live in it, between the walls and those who are in it. It is an inseparable unity and it is not imaginable to separate them. Not getting people away from the house immediately means having the opportunity to lower the costs of intervention: physical, economic, but also human costs. I am talking about a project that must last two generations; I hope that it will start immediately, of course, it must start, but someone must think about these long times, because they are the ones we miss. In Italy we are very good in the immediate emergency. Civil Protection is one of the best examples we have in the world; we are slightly less good in the long term. So, this idea of doing something that can be done without turning people away from their homes makes the project much more feasible, even on a practical level, obviously, on a human and economic level. Well, basically, what do I propose? I propose this - I repeat - in the context of my role as it is, with a working group that is next to me and that works in this sense, without need of anything, except to be together and be useful to the country. At this point I propose to make ten prototypes. You see, in my profession - I know very well - prototypes must be made; it is not enough to speak, it is not even necessary to write, it is not enough. You have to give examples, build prototypes. I know very well how prototypes are to be built: they are examples. We must build them along the Apennines, the seismic zone, which comes from the Balkans in reality; it accompanies us to the Balkans. You have to choose carefully between the old patrimony of the house - I am focusing on the house, and I call old the oldest patrimony of seventy years - and the most recent one, which is what was built in the post-war period, seventy years ago. We must start from these two families and then of course we must talk about construction techniques: stone, brick, mixed structure, concrete. Scary concrete things were built in the post-war years. I say scary not at the level of aesthetics but safety. So, making these 10 prototypes is very important. The idea is to build them in the next few years, not in the next fifty years, in a short time. We have the expertise to do that. Some might say - I'm sure someone will - that this is a bit of theory, academy. No, it's not. I assure you, I am a very practical person. I am a builder of cities, places for people: I know how to do it. It can be done, but it takes two or three things. The first, of course, is an organization, but it is possible. Our country is not in ruins. It is a country that can have an annual budget over a long time. I do not want to go into details - it is not my job - but we are talking about a fortune of 10 million houses. That is the order of magnitude. Someone's gonna say it's eight, nine, eleven. We are talking about all the residential assets that are on the plug of the Apennines and not only, of course. A heritage made of villages very often. Well, this heritage of 10 million buildings can be secured - security, certainty does not exist with the earthquake, but safeguard yes - at a cost that is obviously limited thanks to the fact that I explained just before. I don't go into the details of how much money it takes, but it's money that can be easily found in every year's budgets. It's money that comes into circulation immediately: it's like giving oxygen, because it's micro-financing, micro-enterprises, micro-baskets. We also need a macro enterprise, let's say this: we need a large organization, but it's money that comes in immediately. This is a terrain on which I am less comfortable, also because other people will be able to do better than me in this sense, but certainly it takes an intelligent organization. In the past, speaking of peripheries, I have spoken of mending. Here, "rammendo" is a word a little too humble, but this is what it is. It is about starting and not quitting and being ashamed to forget the dramas, which pass, come out of the news and forget. Then there are a couple of cultural revolutions. We must all abandon the dark and medieval terrain of fatality. There's a lot of talk about fatality, but it doesn't exist! Of course, the earthquake is a fatal thing. The earthquake has always been in Italy and there will always be unfortunately, but it is not fatal that it does not react. It is said that nature is bad; nature is not bad, nor good; it is completely indifferent, but it has done a beautiful thing: it has endowed us with intelligence, which is a natural thing. Intelligence has allowed us since we exist to cover ourselves, build dams, embankments and houses to protect ourselves. Let's defend ourselves, then. We must abandon the terrain of fatality. You have to stop talking about fatality. This, I believe, is a very important cultural element. There is what I would call a collective responsibility. We all have to put ourselves in the head that this is a truth. We can't hide. There are people who don't go to medical tests for fear of hearing they're sick. Let's stop playing this game at the massacre. We accept that we have entered a different stage and accept collective responsibility. I would like to conclude with a revolution, which is perhaps even more important. I am an Italian cosmopolitan by my nature and choice, but I am deeply Italian. I am perhaps a privileged observer, but I have almost the impression that in Italy we have become addicted to the beauty of our country. There's some sort of addiction that we don't know about anymore. Perhaps the Italians no longer realize what we have. When I talk about the beauty of Italy I am not referring to cosmetic beauty and not even to the beauty of monuments, but to that of our 100 cities and our 100, 1,000, 10,000 villages. In particular I can think of the Apennines, because it is the most endangered area. It is a widespread beauty of the urban fabric. It is a beauty that does not belong to us, but to the world: it is a patrimony of humanity. I hear this very often: "You don't feel like you're a slightly inattentive guardian of so much patrimony"? This is very important and I'm afraid it comes from addiction. We only notice beauty when it falls on us. We feel guilty only for the time when we mourn the dead. Something's wrong. You can't go on like this. Something has to be changed. We are guardians of an extraordinary beauty that is envied and of which we can be proud. We cannot boast about it because we did not do it, but we inherited it and we must bring it to our children and grandchildren. It is a very great responsibility. If we are not careful, we risk being unworthy heirs. We're not, but we could be if we're not careful. That is why we need a long-term project. I speak of fifty years for provocation, but it is generational because these revolutions take place through schools, young people and today's children who will be men in twenty years' time. That's why it's generational, and that's also why these things aren't done in four and four. There wouldn't be any money. Clearly, it's a long-term thing. Mr President, our country is beautiful. We know that and we also said that it is a country that we are guardians of, perhaps, a little inattentive. But, you see, beauty is fragile. Our country is beautiful but very fragile at the same time, and about the project to defend it and not to forget over time, I feel this responsibility. It's a huge privilege, it's a great honor to be a senator for life. The idea of defending my country, as long as I'm alive, from here, I like it: it seems to me an idea that fits the Senator's institute for life. This is the project I propose. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD, FI-PdL XVII, M5S, AP (NCD-UDC), Mixed, AL-A (MpA), CoR and GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u31	Senator Margiotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u32	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, naturally speaking after a Master with a capital M as the Senator for Life Renzo Piano makes my task more burdensome on the one hand and on the other hand simpler, because he has explained things better than I would have liked to say. I shall therefore be very brief. I know what an earthquake is, because an earthquake marked my adolescence: in 1980, in fact, in Basilicata there was a strong earthquake, known as the Irpinia earthquake, which also struck Potenza, my city. Who knows why even in that case the Basilicata was forgotten while it had been strongly hit. I then took care of it as an engineer in my professional life and also in my life as a university professor. So I know what this is about when it comes to earthquakes. Let's try to put some points in line, one after the other. First, the Civil Protection Department in Italy works, it worked very well this time too. I was pleased, for example, to hear a tribute in this regard also from Senator Pelino, a sign that when we talk about the good of Italy we overcome the barriers of opposition and majority. Here again I want to pay tribute to all those who, in a way absolutely bipartisan, have taken care to make the civil protection machine effective: Bertolaso, Gabrielli, current Chief of Police, and today Curcio. The Government has certainly intervened in the moments of emergency in an absolutely concrete way. It is a point of excellence of the machine of our country. Let us now come to the motion tabled by Senators Vaccari and Zanda: this motion is not an isolated act, but it is a stage in an articulated path that the PD wants to follow in this short term of the legislature. We want to deal with these issues in a systematic and organic way. It is no coincidence that the PD presented in these hours two drafts of law at first signature Filippi and Vaccari, one related to the file of the building and the other to the recovery and the safety of the historical centers. I note that confusion and demagogy often occur on these issues. The typical phrase that you hear saying is that in Japan with much stronger earthquakes nobody dies is a demagogic phrase. I went to Tokyo and there it is difficult to see a building that is more than thirty years old because they do not know where to visit it. Italy is Italy, with its complexity, with its specificity, with a beautiful and complex building heritage, as Master Renzo Piano said, which makes our country, indeed, great and beautiful. So, Casa Italia is a big and complex challenge, President Renzi. And very well he did immediately invest the senator for life Renzo Piano, who, with his presence, illustrates this House. It is an out-of-class, which gives value to the path that the Government intends to undertake. Just as it was right to invest the rector of the Politecnico di Milano. Just as it is a classmate of other nature, on the administrative level, Vasco Errani himself, to whom the President wanted to entrust the difficult task. It is a challenge, not only for politics, but for engineering, art, the genius of Italians. Let us try to make this tragic opportunity an opportunity. Let's get our young people to work. We study well the materials, the construction techniques, the methods of recovery. It is clear that this generation of ours has above all the task of maintaining the building heritage. And this comes first (and I will repeat it in conclusion) of the great works, but without giving up the great works, if we want to be a great country, ambitious and not pauperistic. Renzo Piano said it better than me. It starts with a real and serious analysis of the state of affairs. The file of the building, and here I address the excellent first signatory of the motion, Senator Filippi, makes sense if it is not paper documentation and that is enough: it makes sense if it starts, as Renzo Piano said, from surveys on concrete, materials, especially from surveys on foundations. The law we want to pass must say all this. We'll think about the outskirts, too. I was pleased to hear you quote from Senator Renzo Piano, and in this regard I also make a technical statement, as an engineer. I am convinced that in many of our suburbs the concrete used in the fifties is less secure than the masonry used in the past centuries. In fact, even in the recent event, as you have seen, it was precisely a reinforced concrete building that collapsed first. So, you have to work on the outskirts and also on the quality of the materials that are used there. It is obvious that the recovery and safety programme should start from schools. The issue of transparency, once again in a demagogic way, is also very serious. That is why we have approved a procurement code and we will measure it on these issues, with attention also to private construction. We are not those who do not do the Olympics because they are afraid of not being able to guarantee transparency: we want to do things and we want to make them transparent. I conclude by saying that this is not the time for controversy, as it always happens. With regard to the reasoning of the President-in-Office of the Council, who is here, about the Bridge on the Strait, which I fully agree with, I say that we must do both. I don't think President Renzi means to say that the bridge comes first and then the security. Safety comes first, but we do both. A country that is up to the challenge takes it and I think this government is up to this challenge. We, Senators of the Democratic Party, will be at your side. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u33	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, our words today are already becoming deeds and can change the country. I have a lot of faith in the result. I thank my colleague Vaccari, President Zanda and the Government for this very right initiative. After every earthquake we seem to wake up from the sleep of hypocrisy. But then we quickly return to being like before, immemorial and fatalist. Italy has vast areas with high seismic risk. In the last twenty years the Apennines has suffered numerous earthquakes: Molise, Umbria, Marche, Abruzzo, Emilia-Romagna and now Lazio, again Marche, Umbria and Abruzzo. We're in a bite and we have to do something. Let's stop thinking that it can't happen to us, and then weep the bitter tears of the crocodile. We are caught up in a sort of shameful fatalism whereby we take away from us the danger, because we think that never happens to us, that happens only to others, far from us. And maybe you prefer the croissant in your pocket to the strict awareness. I very much appreciated the President of the Council Renzi and the whole Government who, a few hours after the terrible shock of 3.36, said the need for a new programme: Home Italy, that's right. Never again to be found unprepared by the earthquake that reaches betrayal, perhaps at night at 3,32 as at the Eagle or 3,36 as on August 24. He stabs you in the back and throws down what he finds weak and unable to resist. The earthquake doesn't give a damn about media reassurance. It just comes in. It is not, however, the earthquake that kills; it is our insecure houses that kills: in all recent earthquakes our houses have turned into graves. This happened to the Eagle, to Amatrice, to Accumoli and in other realities where unfortunately the nest for many children has become a grave. From the very first hours after the earthquake we have seen an excellent reaction of civil protection; I myself went to Amatrice and to the Abruzzo Municipalities already damaged in 2009 and now again hit. Extraordinary effort by volunteers and local authorities, exceptional generosity of Italians. However, I wonder why all this beauty and greatness we do not let them act before, rather than after. In these years and with this Government something has finally begun to move: I think of the funds for schools, after years of interruption of transfers, and then the fund for seismic prevention, very important instrument finally available to private individuals. But it's not enough, you have to make a qualitative leap. Renzo Piano's words are clear and emblematic of what could happen positively in our country. More resources are needed for several generations and a plan that has a sense of continuity and stability. We must invest in the safety of the villages of our inner areas, starting with those with high seismic risk, also based on the diagnosis - as was said - on the maps of zoning and seismic microzoning. The Casa Italia plan must become the answer with certain contents and times. The battle for the file of the building I have been doing since 2009 was not then received. Now that even in L'Aquila and Abruzzo we are finally rebuilding the historic centers, thanks to the new rules and resources decided by this majority, we begin to glimpse the new city, but we arrived after years with errors and inaccuracies: let's treasure it. We must have a framework law (I have presented it for Abruzzo); there are excellent legislative instruments proposed by colleagues, many of the forecasts have already been dropped in the laws of stability and in the local government decrees. These experiences must be taken to make the best of them. Let's face it, we worry about the floor, the colour of the walls, the garage or the fixtures, but we don't wonder if our house has solid foundations, if it is placed on a micro seismic zone at high risk, if it has iron, if it is a house of stones and mud. With the idea of ecobonus becoming a sysma- bonus (or as it will be called) we can facilitate the security of the private home with the acquisition of the file. It is a fundamental issue that calls into question political responsibilities and also that of all of us individuals. The points of the motion are therefore right and important: necessary conclusion of the process of the law of reorganization; orientation of the reconstruction on the five key imperatives also using the good practices achieved in other experiences, such as L'Aquila and elsewhere, where we have finally achieved much more appropriate regulations: we think, for example, of the establishment of areas with special economy (ZES) in the areas affected by earthquakes and natural disasters; then there is the need to exit from the logic of contradictory orders to have an organic law: it is not possible that every earthquake changes the rights and duties of earthquakes. Finally, let me give you a concrete example. The 2009 earthquake, in addition to hitting the outskirts, affected dozens of historic centers and villages. To rebuild them quickly, well and with higher safety standards, you cannot distinguish between first and second homes. Now everyone rightly speaks of rebuilding even the second houses: I agree and will do this battle. However, I would like to remind you that in the villages of Abruzzo the second houses were not financed: the amendments that went to that end were rejected. Consequences of that behavior was the blockage of the reconstruction of the historical centers, where they were obliged to form aggregates, but within those sets the different regime between first and second houses in fact blocked the designs. Only with this government did we overcome that handicap. Why go there after five years, inserting, as we did with the amendments, the possibility of rebuilding the common parts of the second houses? This has unlocked the reconstruction in the historic centers of Abruzzo which, for years, had been blocked because of this absurd prejudice. We don't get there after so many years. Now that we are faced with another serious situation, we intervene with energy, taking advantage of all our positive experiences. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u35	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u36	Mr President, we have listened with interest to Mr Piano and - I am sure to interpret the thoughts of my colleagues - what we have heard is certainly fascinating and desirable in a world that we would all like to draw at the moment by one of the contemporary masters. The colleague Piano is in fact a master in building cities and places to live. We also appreciated his approach to this vision and this dream. This approach is certainly acceptable, starting from a diagnosis that, as in medicine, is also made by those who do good planning and architecture to get to design and build something to deliver to society: this is definitely a good approach. I would simply like to remind my colleague, Mr Piano, that we have had illustrious examples of attempts, in part even successful, to make these prototypes. The architect Snozzi at Monte Carasso was one of the promulgators of this ideology, from my winning point of view. Connect Piano, we could also sign them (I understand politically and not economically) a blank bill to say: all right, we are, this is an important challenge and this country must have the will to accept it. We have the knowledge, the structures and the heads to do it. I share with you that, unfortunately, this is a country that has become addicted to beauty. Many times other places in this land should be shown to the Romans to really appreciate the beauty of the city. Similarly, there is also an addiction to security and land planning. We must no longer put the citizen in a position to say: my loved ones sleep in a building in which, trusting in the eternal Father, I hope nothing happens. Architect Piano, these are, unfortunately, a thin consolation and plastic reality. The country must move and get out of this problem, which is atavic and which, unfortunately, politics has fueled and polluted over the years. We have to make a qualitative leap, even if there is one thing that we will certainly come up against. This morning we want first of all to distinguish his thinking from that of the Government. His thinking is acceptable and the government's thinking is probably different from his. Its approach is also fair in the long term and, therefore, is not political (an approach that speaks of two generations is not in fact political). The government's approach is different. The Commission's approach to important works is what we have heard these days about the Bridge on the Strait: from evening to morning it is re-decide to make the Bridge on the Strait. All right, you can do it, in politics everything happens (but so it should not be in spatial planning). I come to the point, architect Piano. Unfortunately, we will also encounter another reality. The diagnosis, which you rightly believe to be fundamental to building these prototypes and giving an answer, has been made in some parts of the country. I want to mention my region - in this case as a prototype, since we want to talk about prototypes - in which the regional territorial plan has been approved together with all the consequent plans of the Provinces, which have identified in a specific way those elements that should constitute the entire planning of the territory and, consequently, also the elements that to complement must safeguard the planning and the construction of the territory itself: the diagnosis, the hydrogeological failure and those who have more put them. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are pleased that there is finally a debate in this House which, although somewhat dreamy, gives us a dream, because life is also made up of dreams, hopes and long-term visions. Unfortunately, we reiterate our scepticism that what was represented to us this morning by the architect Piano is to be married to the will of this Government and in particular to the will of politics in our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u37	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u38	Mr President, a list of the tragic events of the earthquake that struck us on 24 August has been made. I believe that we have a duty to force ourselves to go further and to make that tragedy the fundamental, final and definitive opportunity to be able to change pace and deal without any demagogy with the issues before us. It is necessary to make a pact between us, which we have the responsibility of the institutions of this State, so that all the matter related to the voice of the great tragedies due to telluric or meteorological phenomena may emerge within us the determination, not demagogic, to be up to the situation and to become avant-garde, even in the world, of what must be done and operate from this point of view. So far we have not done so and, beyond thanking all the structures that have done so immediately and have really made the difference starting with Civil Protection and volunteering, there has been no quality of intervention. There's still some old stuff that's part of the old politics. And don't tell me that it is instrumental to criticize and stress the weird proposals that we have heard from the President-in-Office of the Council in recent days. On the contrary, the thread that holds them is strong, because it speaks of an absence of culture in the face of these great phenomena and these great tragedies. To re-launch, in front of an assembly of construction entrepreneurs, the realization of the Bridge on the Strait does not have a negative value in itself, but it is a message that we give, after having brought even in recent months (and not in recent years) all the arguments about the negativity of a work of this type, and not only for the infiltrations of crime, which historically has put its roots in these great works. But I ask a specific question: how can you think of such a thing? I listened carefully to the Senator's words for life Piano, which do not refer us to short thoughts. One night I saw a film about RAI History related to an Italian Navy steamer who, traveling for a scientific mission in the southern hemisphere, passed in front of Messina after the earthquake. He reminded me when, on the eve of the Fukushima tragedy, experts, great scientists, said that the new power stations (and Fukushima was one of them) were earthquakeproof. Too bad the steamer, in those black and white images, shows us something else: the tsunami. What about your bridge in front of something like this, net of new technologies? But how do you think, in the face of a tragedy such as the one that struck in August the Municipalities of Lazio, Abruzzo, Marche, to make a proposal of this nature, blocking resources that instead must be allocated there? A great statesman, Mr Aldo Moro, a few hours after the earthquake in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, made clear choices in this sense, including one at the revolutionary time, adopted for the first time and never repeated: the institutions of those populations took responsibility, capacity, instruments, resources, obviously in harmony with the organs of the State, to put back on their feet that wonderful region distraught by the earthquake in Friuli. If there really is the will to go beyond the deployments and to anticipate also scientific solutions, do not answer me (because I know) that I am bringing out events happened a hundred years ago, relative to the earthquake of Messina. Those scientists, the great professionals remembered by the senator for life, know - and they have answered me in some cases - that a hundred years, when we talk about events of this nature, are like the beating of wings of a butterfly. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u39	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, as an eagle, I experienced firsthand the dramatic earthquake of 2009, the media manipulations and the national and local affairs that it generated; and we are still paying for the consequences. On August 24th the land shook again violently, affecting the Provinces of Rieti, Ascoli Piceno and Perugia and hitting the Municipalities of Accumoli, Arquata del Tronto and Amatrice, located 40 kilometers from the Aquila and 24 kilometers from Campotosto. After the awakening from that tragic nightmare we experienced in 2009, we found ourselves again having to suffer other losses of friends and relatives, unfortunately, and to have to come back to debate in this prevention Assembly, while at the same time we have to discuss reconstruction for other countries razed to the ground, after as many as eight strong seismic events that Italy has had. The shock recorded as magnitude 6 caused the tragic death of 300 people and considerable damage to public and private buildings and infrastructure, quantified in a first estimate of the Government in 4 billion euros, while in the earthquake of 2009 the magnitude was recorded as 5.7, while affecting Municipalities 100 kilometers away from the epicenter. In my general speech, however, I would like to reflect on the fact that today, in addition to the priority of legislative interventions to secure the country from the seismic and hydrogeological risk (interventions that had been required since 2009 with a proposed popular law filed and by many of you well known, especially by my colleague Pezzopane, and however ignored by the Assemblies and ignored also in this legislature), it is necessary to proceed to a correct and serious recognition of areas at seismic risk in order not to frustrate all interventions. I'm sorry, I'd like some attention, possibly even from the government. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] Italy, since 1980, after the earthquake of Irpinia, has equipped itself with a map of seismicity that allows you to know the areas of the country at greater seismic risk, but has not done to regularize - Mr Undersecretary, please listen to me - the downgrades desired by the real estate lobby. If it has finally decided to invest on the project Casa Italia for the safety of the country, it is necessary to guarantee serious criteria for the classification of areas at seismic risk of the national territory. Otherwise, if there are no appropriate technical regulations, everything is frustrated. The territory of the Aquilano, hit by two strong seismic events, to the South and North, remains today classified zone 2. From this point of view it is not enough even the obligatory file of the building in the real estate transactions and its certificate of agibility, but it is necessary to give a correct information on structural safety, because it may not be adapted to the real seismic risk of that territory and therefore need a lot more interventions for seismic adjustment. In conclusion, although similar tragedies have occurred to those of Amatrice it is inexplicable to have neglected another aspect in the last fifty years: the importance of the organization of the rescue activities, help and assistance since the moments immediately following the seismic event. For the salvation of human lives it serves those who assume the responsibility to organize and direct the aid, and this at 3.36 a.m. on August 24 until late afternoon did not happen: it is missing. All human forces deployed for rescue have been partially frustrated, because no one held the role of coordinator of the excavation and research operations among the rubble. There is no structured organisational capacity. It is true that we cannot predict with certainty when the shock will occur, but it is equally true that we can assign well-defined roles and tasks at national level to intervene promptly in the territorial areas where it might occur. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u42	Mr President, it is clear that this morning we were drawn into a small procedural trap: we thought we had to talk about the earthquake, we had to hesitate about the precise guidelines to the government on the future decree-law that will affect the earthquake (and which is late to arrive compared to the customs of the successive governments) giving Parliament the opportunity to discuss it, and instead we talked about something different. This confirms the fact that by now in Parliament, at the initiative of the Government and by the consent of the majority, the titles are titles, while the contents are different from those we imagine to have to face. I therefore refer the specific issue of the earthquake back to when we will actually see this famous decree coming to Parliament and I hope, given the things we have heard, that Mr Piano will also make his contribution to the practical debate that we are going to face, given his many times called sense of practicality. So let's talk about the so-called Casa Italia project. We are talking about this as an initiative of the Government which has so far matured in extra-parliamentary offices and which has now arrived, by chance or by coincidence of dates compared to the presence of my colleague Piano on Italian territory rather than in other parts of the world, in this House of Parliament. We have also heard a number of speeches. His speech, very academic, explained to us what can be done to secure our territory from the point of view of seismic risk. We could talk about the hydrogeological risk, as we could also talk about other important things from the point of view of the safety of the buildings and the territories to be rebuilt. We appreciate that, but five years ago we had already talked about this in a number of speeches here. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]] If you go through Article 11 of the so-called Abruzzo Decree-Law, Mr President, as prepared by the Berlusconi Government and as then came out - I will now say because of who - from the parliamentary classrooms, you will read that in that decree-Law Article 11 proposes the initiative of control throughout the national territory of seismic risk, starting precisely from the territories of the Central Apennines. That proposal, together with the proposal of the next house floor, was irremediably rejected by the State-Regions Conference that asked and got it removed from that text. The Conference was presided over at the time by Vasco Errani, who today the Government is calling to be responsible for the reconstruction. He is therefore responsible for having deferred for five years - and we do not know if for five years because we still have to verify that the proposals of our colleague Piano are accepted - the systematic diagnosis of the Italian territory from the seismic risk, with the result that we have not yet begun. The excuse then was that the resolution of the State-Regions Conference established that it was the Regions that had to be the promoters and the load of that initiative and not the Civil Protection, as indicated by Article 11 of the Abruzzo decree. Nothing was done about it because then the Regions regularly disregarded expectations. We would have expected today - and we expect it thanks to the sure commitment that Senator Piano will also put in the discussion of the decree-law on the earthquake when it will be presented - also a hypothesis, as well as evocative safety through the prototypes, the diagnosis of the buildings, all things that if you flow, if Senator Piano will have the goodness to flow also the drafts of law presented by us at the beginning of this legislature... [[Brusio.]] President, I have listened religiously to the speeches of all my colleagues. It seems to me, and I speak not only for my speech, that since Senator Piano finished speaking there is a procession of more or less illustrious colleagues at his desk, who feed side conversations. I do not know whether this is part of Parliament's listening plans.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u43	I ask colleagues, because Senator D'Alì's intervention is contradictory to that of Senator Piano...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u44	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). No, I'm not... president. Contradiction doesn't mean... D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). I cannot, of course, claim to be contradictory with my colleague, Mr Piano. As he said, as well as a great scientist, he is also a privileged observer; from his study in New York you can see the beginning of the High Line and therefore I think it is truly privileged, in the sense of being able to admire how in the world urban planning evolves and how he profits also of the things that should be abandoned in order to make them instead absolutely important and central compared to the urban planning projects of the cities. As I said, the proposal to diagnose the buildings of our territory from the seismic risk (and not only, but also from the hydrogeological risk) is already contained in other bills. I myself presented one on 15 March five years ago, at the beginning of the legislature, but obviously trauma is needed in this country in order to imagine doing things useful from a generational point of view. So when we discuss the earthquake, we'll also have to discuss the reconstruction models, because I heard here: let's reconstruct everything as it was. But the urban history of our country's landscape is like a chain of generational rings where each link, according to the culture of time, adds something new. I would like to give an example of Sicilian bell towering. If the Prince of Biscari and the Duke of Camastra had not imagined, after the terrible earthquake of 1693, to build the new towns, we would not have the Val di Noto, today a World Heritage Site. Those who go to Noto see that the Old Noto is a few kilometers away (now the ruins of that city are there), and we have Grammichele, built on the hypothesis of the ideal cities of Campanella. We have a cultural panorama of the world to explore before we say: let's rebuild everything as it was, let's not change an inch. We really have a heritage and this work must be done with a great international competition of ideas because, as well as the great Italian architects have gone to the world, other great architects of the world have come to Italy (Vanvitelli, to remember one). We have a duty to create an international competition of ideas, also taking advantage of the fact that the areas affected by the earthquake last August are also areas limited burdened from the demographic point of view (as opposed to that of five years ago, where there was a population load of people affected ten times higher), because this can also give us the opportunity to explore absolutely new models, but compatible with the landscape and Italian culture. Therefore the diagnosis of the buildings is fine but the file of the building is very bad if it is paid to the owners who have already seen in the last four years quintuplicare the taxes on the real estate. We wouldn't want this building file for the property owners to become a further covert fee. While it would be absolutely important for the Government to take charge of the models, as my colleague Piano told us, of the prototypes of intervention on the Italian real estate. This work must certainly be done with a perspective dimension, but also with a concrete dimension from the point of view of budgetary policies. I repeat, if five years ago we missed the opportunity to start doing so, it was the fault of those gentlemen who sit on the benches of the left who were then in charge of the State-Regions Conference. Some things I could tell you in the time I was allowed to intervene. I hope that Mr Piano will honor us with his presence when we discuss the decree-law on the earthquake, because with the sense of the concreteness that he has reminded us we will also have to deal shortly with the arid argument of the numbers and proposals; we will have to face the debate with the local authorities, which even five years ago claimed to have the exclusive design of the reconstruction. Therefore, these are a whole series of issues that from the experiences of the past can certainly derive positive elements, but that need to be urgently defined, and not yet put on hold after more than a month from that event, with a decree of serious intervention by the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u45	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u46	Mr President, Mr De Vincenti, fellow Senators, Senator Piano, we strongly wanted this working session and the willingness to schedule it as soon as possible was born in the hours immediately after 24 August. Of that terrible morning I have impressed in my memory, like you, the urgency to do quickly, to intervene and to know, as well as the generosity and courage that have been stronger than fear and despair, and that have saved thousands of people. It was still dark that morning when the civil protection volunteers, the fire department, the forces of order, many simple citizens, the mayors, the municipal administrators were around their territories to verify the safety of their fellow citizens and the material damage suffered, thinking of those who were more in danger before their own risk and at the risk of their families. Here, I think that to all of them the Assembly of the Senate owes a great thank you, for the civil ethics, the altruism and the determination demonstrated, which once again has aroused the admiration of the whole world, for the demonstration that we have given of being a great country, first of all for the sense of community and solidarity that unites us. They have been and are engaged in aid, in these days and in those hours, also many voluntary associations and, with them, many young asylum seekers, escaped the war, because solidarity generates other solidarity: this is a very important lesson. I remember how you the first night after the earthquake, the distressing pain for broken lives, for those who were no longer there, swallowed up by shocks and rubble. In thousands that evening, as we know, they could not return to their homes and since then it has been so for every evening: there are still 4.454 people assisted and hosted in the fields and structures set up, in the Marches, Lazio and Umbria, thanks to the timeliness of the Government, the commitment of President Renzi, Minister Delrio, Undersecretary De Vincenti, Commissioner Errani, Presidents of the Region, thanks to their constant presence close to the people. This is also why the emergency phase is, gradually, leaving room for the reorganization and accommodation of families in hospitable facilities, outside the tents, as soon as possible. The cold in fact imposes to make soon, so much so that already some fields, such as that of Pescara del Tronto, fraction of Arquata, one of the most affected places, have been dismantled, with the people transferred to temporary homes and hotels. The earthquake hit the hinterland hard, the Apennine villages, which are magnificent, but in which it is already normally difficult to live, because there are fewer services and even fewer opportunities and where it happens to have to face more than once seismic events even during the same life. If we can take care of us and our homes, as Senator Renzo Piano said with great strength and foresight this morning, of the constructive and urban quality, then it will not be the earthquake that will take us away from the cities that we have built and that are a fundamental piece of the identity and culture of each of us and our country. The first thing to do is to set up local communities and allow them to live. We must reactivate essential services, hospitals and schools first of all and give support to businesses and workers: I think of extraordinary measures for those who have lost their jobs and a free zone of no tax area for the revival of productive activities and for the reactivation of tourist and cultural activities. I am thinking of support for existing commercial activities, whose owners do not, at the moment, have the opportunity to work having lost their warehouses and many earnings. I am thinking of extending the exemption of health tickets to all those who have an inexhaustible home. These are extraordinary, temporary measures, but essential to make it possible, to rebuild and not to throw in the towel. Mr President, in this sense the Casa Italia project can and must link the emergency and reconstruction, in a project that thinks of the places affected as alive and vital and that sees the mayors, with them the populations, in the choices to be made. Transparency, traceability of each operation, legality, fairness in choices and compliance with criteria will be required. We will need certain resources from the state budget and the European budget. We won't cut our roots and rebuild everything as it was and where it was. We will then have to invest in the prevention of seismic and hydrogeological risk and in the security of our public heritage, from schools, hospitals, housing, to the redevelopment of the suburbs. The Casa Italia project can be a test bed, Mr President, precisely in the reconstruction of a vast seismic zone today hit, that of the Central Apennines, supporting small municipalities, allowing them to invest the money provided, allowing individual citizens to have access to credit in order to use the tax relief for the safety and restructuring, putting people at the center of this great structural project that can give more strength to the country. The challenge is to bring our villages back to life; we owe it to the many, too many victims buried in their homes, and it will depend on the commitment of each of us, first of all, to keep the spotlight off and to face together an autumn and a winter that will be very difficult. The earthquake of August 24 is a huge wound and it is also up to us to know how to suture it. The project Casa Italia wants to prevent other wounds from happening, and today we vote this motion with the thought of Amatrice, Arquata, Accumuli, Monti Sibillini, via Salaria: places loved by us Marches, us Lazio, us Umbrians, us Abruzzo, linked by this piece of Appennino. Places that are a piece of ourselves, today broken and torn, and that we again have to rebuild and bind together. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u47	The debate is closed. I note that Senators Vaccari, Marinello, Romano and Mazzoni have presented the agenda G3. As a result, motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 4, 5, 9, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions and agendas that have been presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u48	Mr President, I would like to thank all the senators who have spoken in this debate, an important debate which focuses on reasoning and giving indications and proposals to deal with a dramatic event, such as the earthquake of 24 August, drawing up the lines of the reconstruction of the countries affected by that earthquake and outlining a prospect of securing, both seismic and in general, our country and its housing, artistic and cultural heritage. That night of August 24 we all remember her and remember the sense of anguish in warning the two shocks (the first, but also the second, which was also very strong), the sense of anguish for what could have meant for the populations near the epicenter of the earthquake. That night the civil protection system, civil protection and, around it, all the forces that the system involves - fire brigades, police forces, armed forces, the many civil protection volunteers and also the volunteers tout court who have already offered themselves in the first hours to help in the rescue action - have given an extraordinary proof of efficiency, effectiveness and true solidarity. Yes, because solidarity with the Italian citizens affected by that earthquake is measured by the ability to intervene to their rescue and support, and that night, the hours and days following witnessed this in an unequivocal way. I have heard, unfortunately, some inaccuracies in the debate. I would like to point out that the National Operational Committee met - and was therefore operational - twenty minutes after the first shock, that the aid has already started in the night, and the mayors and peoples of the affected countries know well that what I am saying is true. There was, therefore, a very important immediate rescue phase, because the first goal was to save lives. Then, there was assistance to the population in naturally emergency conditions; the immediate establishment of tents to accommodate those who could not return to their homes, health care. There has been an overall mobilization that has allowed to limit the even heavy damage caused above all, unfortunately, to people. Action to deal with the emergency has continued in recent weeks. We were able, as we undertook to do, to reactivate the school activity in the planned times and we have brought support and support to the entrepreneurs and workers of those territories. I am thinking, for example, of farmers who have lived and are experiencing a particularly difficult situation, with whom we share the action to enable them to manage the situation, to carry on and to protect the farms involved, but not only the whole of economic activity. Today we are engaged in overcoming the phase of the Tendopolis in order to start the phase in which we will allow the populations, as they ask us, to be able to stay on the places, even if in temporary dwellings. We therefore propose, from here until next spring, to have in the areas affected by the earthquake the housing conditions so that everyone can return to their places of residence and so that the activities of daily life can resume. Many motions point to this as a key objective and the Government is moving in this direction. This is the phase of the emergency, which we will manage until we allow the full recovery of daily life in the territories affected by the earthquake, and at the same time we have started the reconstruction phase by appointing the extraordinary Commissioner for reconstruction who, in a very strong relationship with the Presidents of the Regions, with the mayors and with the local communities, is outlining its interventions and the main lines. We intend to fully collect the demand that comes from the citizens of the affected areas: reconstruction must take place in the same places; the villages will be rebuilt as they were, maintaining their cultural and historical identity, of course with an anti-seismic security that meets the standards that current technologies finally allow to realize. The contribution that has come from this House's debate this morning will be valuable in drawing up, which is already under way, the rules that we intend to put in place with a forthcoming measure, which will serve as a regulatory framework for all the reconstruction work in the earthquake areas. We will give full support to the reconstruction of the first houses, but also the second houses, because in those territories the second houses mean important economic activities and are part of the economic fabric of the place. And, of course, full support for the recovery of economic activities in the affected areas. The decree-law will deal with the reconstruction of the earthquake areas. And then there is a more general strategy that we have called Casa Italia: a strategy that wants to put our country on a new path of full protection and anti-seismic security of our housing, cultural and artistic heritage and wants, however, to face other risks, and not only the seismic one. I am thinking, for example, of hydrogeological risk. In this respect, we have already allocated important resources and we will continue to move forward with the speeches on hydrogeological failure, which will be linked to the more general strategy. Then there is a problem of overall environmental safety of our territory, which includes the issue of reclamation, waste management and water safety, and also a more general issue. I am referring to Casa Italia, who wants to make our country the home of Italians to the end. The word house, in fact, not only indicates the walls but means services, electricity, gas, water and waste management; it means the possibility to move around the territory (mobility and transport); it means Internet connection, ultra-wide band and so on. I am referring, therefore, to an overall project for Italy, to which the budget law will devote important resources that will be alongside those that we have already dedicated - for example - for the ultra-wide band, for the hydrogeological failure, for the school building or for those planned in the masterplan for the Mezzogiorno. Those resources are already there. The law of stability will set them up and add others. I want to thank all those who have begun to work on the Casa Italia project and first of all Senator Renzo Piano, who in his speech today confirmed us a precious availability for the elaboration of the main lines of mapping and securing our country, that reminder of which he spoke of that is fundamental because - as the Senator told us before - we must be aware of what beauties our country contains and of what heritage Italy is for the whole of humanity. I would also like to thank Professor Giovanni Azzone, rector of the Politecnico di Milano, who has agreed to lead the mission unit Casa Italia and who is collecting the contributions that, starting from that of Senator Piano, are coming from research institutes, economic and social forces and all institutions. A shared choral work is in place, which is what it takes to finally start the new strategy for our country. I now come to the motions and agendas. The Government considers that the agenda G3, presented by Senators Vaccari, Marinello, Romano and Mazzoni, fully absorbs the three motions (which were not by chance withdrawn, because they are fully found in it) and also summarizes all the points shared by the other motions. Therefore, the Government invites the presenters to withdraw all the motions submitted, otherwise it will give an opinion against them; it will give a full favourable opinion on the G3 agenda. As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G1 gives a favourable opinion, provided that there is little rewording. The Government shares in the provisional part the Government undertakes to define a regulatory framework of reference that includes a specific form of assistance and assistance in favour of disabled people and only asks to remove the word "normative" because many of the interventions indicated by Senator De Petris in his illustration have an administrative and organizational character and do not require any norm: honestly I do not think there is a need to pass a norm. We need to do what is good, that Senator De Petris has correctly indicated and that the agenda G1 reports. The Government takes the opposite view on the G2 agenda, with Senator Calderoli first signatory. There's no need for propaganda, Senator Calderoli. The resources for the earthquake are there, regardless of the issue of the bridge over the Strait of Messina. We're real people. [[Comments of the LN-Aut Group.]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). What are you talking about? Mr De Vincenti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I see that Senator Calderoli is not here, and I am sorry. I turn then to the other senators who are signatories to the agenda in question. We are concrete people and the financial resources for the earthquake will all be there. There's no problem. AIROLA (M5S). You said it here and you'll come here and deny it! (Senator Pezzopane turns to Senator Airola mimicking the crow's verse.) Yeah, that's good. You're such a crow. You nested up there!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u49	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motions and agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u52	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are disappointed to learn that the government is rejecting motions which do not exactly correspond to the enlarged majority border, which today sees the Democratic Party together with the NCD and also AL-A. The Government, which at this moment is represented only by the Undersecretary De Vincenti (being the President of the Council of Ministers just departed the intervention of Senator Renzo Piano or better - as I am rightly pointed out - Renzi Piano), is declared - it is obvious - contrary to what inserted in the motions that will be rejected. In other words, it is opposed to the establishment of a special economic zone, as the League requires, so that in those areas it can rebuild an economic fabric that ensures that people can live and rebuild their productive activities. Obviously, the Government is opposed to our proposal to postpone the payment of social security charges, to ask not to be left in the hands of those who are currently subject to the burden that also increases interest on loans and other charges that are not able to pay. That's what we're asking in here today. I would have preferred - and it would have been much more consistent on the part of the Government - that the request had been made to all the opposition groups to participate in the drafting of a unitary document: a proposal that we have not heard submitted. And that shows that your goal here today, once again, was not to find the country's unity to give a strong and serious response to the earthquake and future prevention. Your goal - as you well declined with the photographers - was only to create a pre-election spot to be able to convince maybe someone, scammedly, about the government's capabilities. Otherwise, we cannot understand Renzi's instant presence, apart from taking the cappuccino, in order to listen only to Senator Piano's intervention, as if all the others in here were fools and did not deserve the attention of the Government. The photographers are gone, the ones you had moved out of the gallery so you could take the close-up. [[Applause from Senator Montevecchi.]] CARDINALI (PD). That's enough! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, I invite you to return to the subject of the explanation of vote. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, this is not serious. We're talking about serious things here. There are proposals in our text and we have not heard an argument from the Government to say that they are not worthy of being voted by the majority in this House. We didn't hear that. I say to Senator Piano that he should come to the Senate sometime: it is not a pleasure, but a duty, if he has agreed to be a senator for life. Let us remember that in this House we are dealing with important issues, which concern the lives of citizens, every day. [[Protests from the PD Group]] I say it and how, because I am a senator elected by the people and not nominated by Napolitano. Remember that! [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u53	Senator, I invited you to stick to the subject of the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u54	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would stick to the subject of the explanation of vote if it had been discussed, but we only saw one spot. I repeat that with our motion we are asking for tax relief and help, we are asking for a reconstruction. Using Senator Piano's words, we ask that a socio-economic "rammendo" be made, allowing those who are still in tents today to be given a fixed structure to stay next to their farms and their homes. We ask for a trivial, simple thing: the penalties provided for the jackal and for the other infamous crimes that are carried out in the areas affected by the earthquake must be high. This is an additional sign of incivilization. And you can say no to that? The government does not say anything, because it has not even read the motions, and we are truly sorry about that. We will continue with our proposal and continue to tell the citizens that we are able to defend them, while they only make commercials, as for the bridge over the Strait. What is the bridge over the Strait if not a pre-election spot? Use that money to secure all the other municipalities in the Apennines that are in the same condition as Amatrice. Then you'll do something serious, otherwise it's just an election ad. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u57	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I would not have liked to have made an explanation of vote, because I thought that on an issue such as that of the earthquake there would have been, in the debate in this House and by the government first of all, a willingness to share some of the good ideas that all the motions propose. I think I say something very trivial in remembering that all the Groups have proposed motions with the intention and with the objective of bringing relief to those populations and also of addressing the wider theme of the breakdown of our territory, its fragility, its delicacy in the specific case of Amatrice, bearing in mind that every earthquake is different from the others and determines problems and effects that in the future may be different from those that we have seen for other earthquakes. What I would like to ask the government is a question rather than an explanation of vote: what is not acceptable in the motions presented by the other groups? Is the government against ecobonus and tax incentives? No. Yet, in all the motions there is this and much more. I think that Mr Candiani's words have only highlighted a part of the problem, which is a little wider. Is it possible that even the earthquake should be seen as the occasion for a division and a commercial in this House? Now, for the President-in-Office of the Council, the House is only the place of the electoral ads or of the great communication that, even through the use of the poor Senator Renzo Piano, is exploited by the Government in order to be able to delude that this is the good time and that a different solution can be found than those of the past. On the other hand, I have a fear, given the script that is repeating itself and given the very strange lack of availability by a government that does not want to gather around itself all the political forces to be able to have the support and make a further and perhaps better effort than that of previous governments to give answers. And I think, then, that Mr Candiani's words are a little strong, but they give the exact sense of what happened in this House this morning. I am sorry that undersecretary De Vincenti does not take the opportunity to have the support of a large, very large part of this branch of Parliament to carry out an action that will be complicated and difficult, as is always the case in such cases the actions of governments. The words he has spoken in this House will probably be disappointed. And he will be the first disappointed by the effects of a government action that I do not know if it will take place, but of course alone, isolated in its narrow or large majority, depending on the sessions and the days. It is a majority which, at the end of the examination of the Stability Act, will have to declare its failure. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u60	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I think it is a very positive fact that, as soon as the dust of the houses collapsed in the last earthquake, the problem of anti-seismic safety and the fight against hydrogeological failure has not been quickly debilitated on the subject of ordinary administration, as has been the case several times in the past. A tool from which to start already exists and is the Fund for Prevention, approved in the aftermath of the terrible earthquake of the Eagle of 2009. However, the amount allocated has proved insufficient, as the Civil Protection Department itself has said. The Italian one is an epochal delay, which puts us behind us even countries such as Turkey and Chile, who have been able to act more far-sightedly on the front of anti-seismic prevention. In Italy, interventions for the safety of private homes are an absolute rarity: there is, in fact, an obligation only for new buildings or important renovations. However, when one looks at what the Italian State has spent over the last fifty years on reconstructions after earthquakes, it turns out that a great anti-seismic consolidation plan would have saved. So, the state has spent a lot, but badly, always acting on the wave of emergencies and never in a structural way for adequate prevention. Now is therefore really the time to change the register, and not only with the Casa Italia project, which will inevitably have a long-term horizon, but with the same law of stability that we will approve in December. From 2010 to 2016 successive governments have allocated in the Fund for the prevention of seismic risk a total amount less than billion euros, while in the same period the value of the deductible amounts for the single energy redevelopment - that is the ecobonus - has abundantly exceeded the 12 billion euros, which are added to the more than 60 billion amounts deductible for the building recovery. I believe that providing for at least a partial rebalancing that favours substantial detaxation of private investment in the anti-seismic consolidation would probably go in the right direction. Similarly, compulsory house insurance, which is totally deductible from taxes, should also cover, among others, the risks arising from natural disasters. And this is a point in the motion to which the representative of the Government gave a positive opinion. In conclusion, I recommend to read the important focus of the Bruno Leoni Institute of 2009, which proposes a house RC that can be deducted from taxes, providing alongside the indispensable public intervention the entry on stage of third parties such as insurance companies - perhaps coordinated by a public authority - who, in order to protect their interests, would push the insured to be responsible in order to contain the effects of disasters of nature. The experience of these years should encourage everyone - state and private - to finally cultivate the culture of prevention. As we have seen, the state of the art is in fact absolutely dramatic. [[Applause from Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u63	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the earthquake of 24 August, which was tragic for intensity, tragic and painful for hundreds of people, marked a predictable continuity with the recognized seismicity of a vast area of the national territory. However, it also marked the manifest solidarity of so many who, in various ways, participated and intervened immediately. The commitment to reconstruction will obviously take some time. The expectation and confidence placed, on the basis of the commitments made at the highest institutional levels, will certainly not be disregarded. But the reconstruction of the urban fabric cannot be considered congruent if it is not based on a renewed social cohesion and on a robust vision of community, where the social capital is the first protagonist and interpreter, recipient immediately. I believe that this is the challenge that the earthquake poses to us. Casa Italia is a broad project for objectives and measures that allow reconstruction, anti-seismic adaptation, investments in hydrogeological failure and, above all, reasonable prevention from public buildings. For some this project is utopian, unrealizable, imbued and connotationd with disenchanted darkness. However, I firmly believe that it is feasible, even in times that cannot be short. But I think even more that Casa Italia is such if it knows how to be a supportive house, that is community participation, precisely shared, in responsibility. A reconstruction that is not only functional from an engineering and architectural point of view can and must be based on the substantial reconstruction of a social fabric made up of stories, humanity, memories and hopes, expectations and investments. It is history of people, who together and not alone can build a future worthy of those lands, of our Italy. Casa Italia, therefore, is a symbol, it can represent a symbol and it is the representation of a trust, precisely community, where everyone is involved, facetor and therefore actor in subsidiarity and responsibility. As was recalled in the discussion, it is a generational project as well as solidarity. It is based on some paradigms that we have included on our agenda, to which will be expressed by the Group for the Autonomies, consensus and favour. I am referring to the paradigms of quality, democracy, transparency, legality and fairness: the paradigm of the highest quality and efficiency of interventions, with the greatest possible respect for the identity of the places and buildings; democracy through a responsibility of the local communities and of all the institutional levels present; transparency by means of computer platforms for the management of all the resources and the timely and continuous reporting of the interventions; legality through the creation of mechanisms of selection and continuous punctual control of the companies responsible for the works; finally, not least, fairness, or payment of due to the citizens, the enterprises and the bodies of the affected communities, in a principle therefore that is respectful of all and gives us the possibility of a reconstruction that, starting from Casa Italia, finds us all united and not divided on ideological or part positions, that in itself, for the same expression of the word, are divisive. And Casa Italia is not divisive. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u66	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I have finished my previous speech, during which I explained the motion, making a sort of appeal: let us prove that we are a serious country and therefore an appeal to seriousness. My colleague, Senator Cervellini, has gone further, urging us to go beyond demagogy, because only issues that concern people's lives and the future of our country. And we thought - and we were once again illusory - that today could be an opportunity for serious confrontation and on the substance. We appreciated the intervention of Senator Piano, who reminded us how important it would be in our country to invest not only generically in the safety, but also in the custody of its landscape and cultural beauties. However, unfortunately, Mr President, I must note that I have once again been disillusioned. You'll tell me I'm very naive. I'm not so naive, but I always try to have some sort of optimism of the will. I could not escape that today an attempt would be made to air a scene, with the appearance of the President of the Council and the great architect, all set for an external communication of propaganda. But since - I repeat - I always try to be willingly optimistic, I thought we could overcome the anxiety of propaganda. Unfortunately, this was not the case, and I am very sorry that Mr De Vincenti, in the end, lent himself to this mechanism. Indeed, in giving its opinions, it only gave a favourable opinion on the motion by the enlarged majority, without taking into account the many proposals contained not only in our motion but also in the motions tabled by other groups, as is the case when opinions are given on the various points, entering into the substance of the same proposals. This means that undersecretary De Vincenti also lent himself to a propaganda operation. And I would also like to address my colleague, Mr Vaccari, who tabled the other non-Democratic motion: in this case we obviously did not want to take a step forward, and I am sorry about that. We are talking, among other things, about people who have suffered. We're talking about an earthquake that happened on August 24th, so it's still alive in memory. It must not be allowed to anyone - and for this reason I am not only very angry, but also dismayed, to say the least - to use the issue of the earthquake to do other operations and not to give precise answers to the people who are suffering and to the future of our country. He must make it clear that many of the commitments that the Government makes in the majority motion are also acceptable, because they were also present in other motions. But frankly it leaves me very perplexed the smokyness of the Casa Italia project. Undersecretary De Vincenti continues to say that it refers not only to the house, but also to infrastructure, broadband, waste. Certainly there is a general problem in our territory, but we wouldn't want to find some motorway or maybe a bridge included in the Casa Italia project, because then we didn't understand each other. We continue to make choices like those taken over the last two years, and I am thinking of unlocking Italy. Someone really wants to convince me that, by running a project like that, one thinks of making a cultural revolution, how did he invite us to make Plan? That we finally realized that we have to be guardians of our territory? That we have finally realised that we need to intervene with prevention? That we finally realized that we have to make a real, ten-year plan for safety? If we had understood that, the government should come to this House and withdraw many of the choices made by that decree and make it clear that there is a real change in direction. And the demonstration that it has not been understood is the question of the bridge over the Strait, and not only because it is a symbolic fact and for years it has proved the usefulness of the work (among other things it is in seismic zone and I do not know if we intend to pass also that as an intervention in seismic zone 1): it means that we do not yet want to understand that we must change completely, make a chronoprogram, a serious planning of everything we need to do. I am very sorry - I repeat - that they did not wish to articulate the proposals put forward. And we are leaving today with a debate that risks being, once again, without conclusions. It lasted all morning, Senator Piano also spoke, it was very interesting, but in the end what have we concluded today? The government comes here, does not give answers in terms of resources (we will also see it in the budget) and carefully avoids going into the matter and saying yes or no about the precise proposals we have made with our motions. The debate on the motion for a resolution on cinema did not end yesterday and we have taken this debate forward. I ask very clearly: do we have to go on like this until December 4th? Do we have to go ahead with operations in this House where everything is aimed exclusively at propaganda? This is absolutely not possible. But be careful, because citizens will start to get really bored at this point. Even today we held a debate that was not for the earthquake victims and was aimed not at intervening and solving the problems, but once again only at shameful propaganda operations. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u68	You have the right to do so. And I would ask you all to stick to the five minutes we have planned to be able to vote by the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u69	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I shall use even less than five minutes. First of all, undersecretary De Vincenti, I would like to state the support and appreciation of the People's Area Group, which I represent here for the G3 unitary agenda presented by the majority. The key words and concepts of our motion are well represented in it: the involvement of the populations of the areas affected by reconstruction as real protagonists; a reconstruction that we have requested must be respectful of the environment, of the architectural language and, in a certain way, avoid the free interpretations on the subject that many times have characterized other areas and have led to the construction of the so-called cathedrals in the desert; light yards - as Professor Piano said in his speech - but which must also correspond to light architectures. Undersecretary De Vincenti, on the agenda there is a coordination of Palazzo Chigi, and therefore of the Government, in the reconstruction and also in the great idea of Casa Italia, which is not only the safety - as I said earlier - of public and private buildings, but also a sort of systemic approach to all the problems of the territory. Coordination must be mainly political rather than operational, precisely in order to avoid duplication of a number of bodies that very often have not given or do not give good proof of themselves. I am also thinking of the mission structure against hydrogeological failure, on which I personally have a number of doubts. Finally, there is the involvement, Undersecretary, of professional bodies, which are certainly auxiliary bodies of the State which - in my opinion - must therefore be fully involved. Finally, with regard to prevention, the system of controls and checks must be activated. A few decades ago, when a reinforced concrete work, both public and private, was to be tested, there was a register of testers managed directly by the prefectures and with criteria of absolute thirdness. Returning to such a hypothesis could be a good idea precisely in order to avoid that, at a delicate stage, such as that of control and verification of the work, conflicts of interest can be triggered that are often the cause or are at the basis of some disasters that we have recorded even in the last misfortune. Having said that, I confirm the favorable vote of the People's Area. It will then be up to politics to find strong reasons which, in my opinion, cannot be divisive, demagogic or populistic on such issues. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u72	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I preannounce my Group's abstention vote on the G3 agenda. instead the vote favorable on the motions presented respectively by Senator De Petris, that we liked, and Bonfrisco. Of course, we will also vote in favour of our own. Let us see the reasons why we will abstain and just for the sake of our country, not for anything else. With regard to the first observation, you are referring to something that still does not exist, the Casa Italia project (which resembles so much the "home project" of someone else), and entrusted the finding of resources to what will be written in it. I do not agree very much with this, and I believe that many of us will not be. This is the time to ask for financial commitments and also immediately. If I hear the dear President of the Council say that we are going to make the fantastic bridge over the Strait, for which Salini Impregilo has already been paid half a billion penalty (a beautiful recapitalisation), in six years 100,000 people will be working (yes, obviously by moving the rods by hand) spending 10 billion; I wonder: but how? For such stuff 10 billion and for the project I have not seen a spending commitment! I feel frankly taken for a part of the body and I'm not the only one who feels taken like this. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Council Senator]] The money's for this, then, and that's all. I also hear about a whole series of commitments concerning prevention, white lists, democracy in the choice of reconstructions. But it has been since 1980 and since the Irpinia earthquake that I hear exactly the same things. Some of you have been in positions of government, you have been in Parliament and you still say the same things. Why didn't you do it? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We're still at the point where we have to commit the government to do something that was supposed to come to on its own. But what commitment would this be? What are we talking about? Just for the question of resources, to those who think it's a good idea to make the bridge over the Strait of Messina, I want to remind you of the Channel Tunnel and its economic return, which has never been. Do we want to make a 10-billion-dollar bridge just to get Salini to support the constitutional revision in exchange for a perpetual debt to the state? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do we really want to do this? Congratulations! And then you put the seismic redevelopment together with the energy redevelopment, but what? First the seismic redevelopment. Attention: you continue to refer to seismicity maps that are probabilistic instruments, measure the probability that an earthquake will exceed a certain intensity over a period of fifty years and do not see the peak. That's why in Fukushima, built with all the chrisms, what happened happened. Milan is located in zone 3, a zone of low seismicity. Too bad that in Brescia there was an earthquake of magnitude 5.5, a long time ago, but there was. What is the time horizon for these interventions? Then Delrio is right when he says that earthquakes make GDP and, therefore, why do houses or infrastructure well? Much better to do so, so they collapse and we continue to make GDP. To those who say that the bridge over the Strait will be anti-seismic, I say that you can make it resistant to the 9th degree of the Richter scale, to 9.3. So? Everything else around it isn't. If the road opens three meters or the embankments below the entrance of the bridge collapse, I made an anti-seismic bridge that can no longer be used because you can't get there. Then what are we talking about? These reasonings are elementary school stuff. Let's move on. As for flexibility in the European Union, are we still going to ask the European Union for money? But a nice "fudge" to the European Union, isn't it? I say it's time to say it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You asked for flexibility for the 80 euros, for the safeguard clauses and also for the jobs act, to seek consensus. For this stuff, I don't ask for flexibility, but I take what I have to take. If he doesn't like it, I don't care. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I owe extra and who cares? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You're gonna give me an infringement procedure? I'm not paying. If I don't pay, what do you do? Will you come and ask me for the money? Italy is a net contributor to the European Union: it gives more than it takes. You give me a $300 million fine, I give you $300 million less, what are you gonna do to me? Are you invading me? You're doing a trade war and me being your importing partner buying from you? We keep them by the balls, not them. And do we do the opposite? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u73	Senator Martelli, please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u74	MARTELLI (M5S). I'll finish. We asked and asked for something very simple: money on the table already clear from the law of stability, a perpetual revolving fund. The real estate we had is completely to be refurbished, including infrastructure. Someone said, and did not entirely, that this type of investment generates a positive flywheel for the economy; there are all the multipliers that say so, but let's see them, this money. Why do we have to refer to a fantastic Casa Italia project that is an empty container? This is the time to ask them to put the money on the table, and not to wait another time and plan. I'm tired of seeing this flat thing, I want to see the money, piles of money. Instead of the bridge, I want to see the money here. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u77	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, we are here to discuss the umpteenth tragedy that has already been experienced and that has cost almost 300 lives. I believe it is necessary to thank the Civil Protection, the Fire Departments, the Forces of Order and the volunteers who, through their timely commitment, have saved the lives of many other people. As President Berlusconi said, I wish him a happy birthday from this point of view. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Since today he celebrates his 80th birthday: we do not intend to exploit in any way tragedies like these. We recall the shameful action carried out by the opposition forces in relation to the fourth Berlusconi Government, which was the only one to have allocated funds to the territories affected by the earthquake in Abruzzo, and the reconstruction phase managed by the successive Governments was long, troubled and still not completely completed. Faced with situations like these, the first thing to do is to quickly and effectively rebuild damaged territories. At the same time, solutions must be found to reduce the natural disasters occurring too frequently in this country. Unfortunately, I believe, Mr Undersecretary, that in the future they will happen even more often, because the cuts made by the Government to the local authorities now prevent the minimum maintenance needed in the territories, because the canals are no longer cleaned, the rivers are not put into order and in the end, at every shower a little more violent than normal, we are faced with human tragedies. I was saying that the first thing the government should do is quantify the damage, because I have heard figures of 3 or 4 billion, while I can say, since I live in the territory of the Marches, that the damage this time is greater than the earthquake that hit Umbria and the Marches in 1997. As mayor, I didn't receive any requests to quantify the damage, I don't know where these predictions came from. I believe that it will take many more billion than planned; and this is important to establish it immediately, because we need to make multiannual planning of the resources needed to repair the damage that has occurred. Secondly, we would have expected to see the decree-law already, because it serves to understand how to operate: it is necessary to understand what are the urgent measures to promote the immediate reconstruction and the resumption of the normal activity of the economic and social fabric of the areas affected by the earthquake. The other thing that I believe is necessary - I have seen that the decree has not come out and I think it is going out - is to simplify procedures, all procedures, because it is also a problem to remove the debris derived from the earthquake: citizens who want to intervene in their home do not know where to bring the debris, because this is already a problem. Moreover, those who built a lucky accommodation because they had a wooden house, today they find to have realized a building abuse, which has already been contested. Then I think that a reflection should be made on school building. We continue to whiten the school buildings built with the use of poor materials in the 1950s and 1960s, but even if we whiten them they are not able to resist the fury of seismic events. We will have to think about rebuilding these buildings, which must not be adapted to the anti-seismic rules, but rebuilt again. Finally, I believe that we need continuous and transparent monitoring of the work of the Commissioner of Government. I did not understand why in the past the Presidents of the Region had recourse and this time we had to appoint a commissioner to act... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Ceroni. CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I conclude by asking the Government to reflect on the problem of the capacity of the tax relief measure of 65%. Undersecretary De Vincenti, this is a measure that favours only the rich, because this benefit can be enjoyed by those who have a high income and pay a high IRPEF. A pensioner who does not pay the IRPEF will never enjoy this benefit and therefore will not be able to reduce the cost of the intervention through tax deductions. It is therefore necessary to find alternative measures for people who have a lower income, otherwise this measure ends up favouring only the wealthiest classes. Mr President, I should like to leave out the other proposals, which are contained in the motion that we have tabled, and to which we shall vote in favour, just as we will do for the text that Senator Bonfrisco has as her first signatory. [[Call the president back.]] Finally, we are surprised that the Government did not want to accept any of our measures, but the Government is now always moving in this direction and we cannot do otherwise. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u80	SUSTA (PD). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today the Senate, a little more than a month after the earthquake that struck a large area of the Central Apennines, is called to carry out one of its primary functions, often sacrificed to the daily legislative work, which is that of the political direction, that the representatives of the people have the right and the duty to give to the Government. We cannot fail to reiterate, alongside thanksgiving to the rescuers, the dismay, the pain and the mourning for this last tragedy, which is added to those that have accompanied the evolution of our national history, entering - as they say - our DNA, that of a people who knows how to smile, who knows how to make smile, but who brings within a pain that is not sleepy, a latent melancholy, the result of a long history of pain, fatigue, struggle for conquests and liberation from need, injustice and natural calamities. We have all remembered, in this month, the tragedies of the last fifty years, from the flood of Polesine to the earthquake of 24 August, but we cannot forget the 30,000 deaths of the earthquake of Marsica immortalized by Ignazio Silone, and the 100,000 that seven years before that tragic 1915, which marked the start of the useless massacre of the First World War, hit Messina and Calabria in what is perhaps the greatest earthquake in the history of humanity. This memory must not serve us to cry and to pity us, but to understand what to do and decide what to do. That is the spirit and purpose of the G3 agenda, which we are about to approve and which my colleagues Mr Vaccari, Mr Marinello, Mr Lucio Romano and Mr Mazzoni have tabled. The PD Group will vote with conviction, together with the commitments contained in it, because forty years after the earthquake of Friuli, which made understand the need to have an adequate system of civil protection to deal with emergencies, from the municipal level, today we need to have a broader perspective, summarized with the words Casa Italia project whose objectives were also illustrated by Senator Piano. As President Zanda recalled in his speech of 13 September, no government that has alternated in these seventy years of Republic had the foresight to start a long-term program to secure the most fragile parts of our country, which in a few decades has seen its population increase by 20 million, in a territory of only 300,000 square kilometers, largely represented by mountains, and that in only twenty years, between 1950 and 1970, has gone from being a substantially agricultural economy, with some industrialized area, to becoming the seventh industrial power of the world. This development, which has also generated the well-being of which we have all enjoyed, has produced distortions that must be corrected with the strengthening of the emerging instruments, but above all with interventions that heal the wounds of a disordered urbanization and of poor quality, of a hydrogeological failure also due to the depopulation of the mountain, of constructions that do not meet safety criteria. We need a breakthrough, and alongside a uniform framework legislation throughout Italy, such as that contained in the draft law to the House of Mr Chiara Braga and others, which aims to strengthen a homogeneous framework and a civil protection system, alongside the strengthening of the fund for the prevention of seismic risk, alongside the delegation to the Government for the reorganization of the national civil protection system, a Casa Italia project, which calls everyone, majority and opposition, to look to the future, to put in place the will and resources not to capture consensus today - as someone has feared - but to return to our communities, in a not short, intergenerational period, a building heritage and urban planning of the cities that is able to withstand the challenge that mother nature occasionally throws to man and those of the development that we democratically give ourselves. A great project that concerns urban planning, construction, energy saving, which includes strong local tools for managing interventions and strong powers of central control; that should create a country that does not want to remain behind and that wants to enhance the local autonomy, being united, and that also sets itself the aim of directing towards goods, which, even private, have an intrinsic public value: the consumption of the people. Politics must be able to answer the question of the future that the people affected by these tragedies are asking us. We need to make it clear that we understand. This agenda can open up a new phase, and we hope - precisely because of the long-term prospects - that the whole of Parliament, the majority and the opposition, will compete. For this reason, the PD Group strongly votes for these objectives, and hopes that there will be a broad consensus of all the forces represented here. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u81	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. Following the vote on motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the agendas for G1, G2 and G3 will be put to the vote, also for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. I would remind you that motion 620 has been withdrawn and its content on the G3 agenda. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 629. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 629 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 630. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 630 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). I would remind you that motion No 631 has been withdrawn and its content on the G3 agenda. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 632. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 632, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 633 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 633 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 634 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u84	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I come back to the initial speech, and I am sorry that it was not proposed for the previous motions as well. I would ask the Government to consider the individual points of this motion separately. Reasonably, there are parts that match this motion, other motions and agendas. How can we fail to accept the proposals in the motion? Others can be discriminated against. I would ask that at least one split vote be taken. Let the government reflect: we do not find a logical reason to do otherwise. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked the government representative to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u85	Mr President, the acceptable proposals on which we are committed are those on the G3 agenda, tabled by Senator Vaccari and other senators. On what is not included in the agenda we express the opposite opinion. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). What about the parts that are the same?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u86	A separate vote may be taken on the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u89	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to give you a thought. By the same admission as the government, there are coincident parts. The vote in full of this motion precludes parts of the G3 agenda, tabled by a majority. If the motion of the League is rejected, as was the case for the 5 Star Movement or for others, the parts included in the agenda G3 of the following majority will necessarily be excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u90	On the motion there is the possibility of voting for separate parts if there is a request and if the House agrees on the split vote. Otherwise we can only move forward with the vote. I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on motion 634 (text 2), tabled by Senator Candiani. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u93	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, you have already put four motions to the vote, which have been rejected. Much of these contained items which were absolutely identical to the G3 agenda of the majority, which at this point were to be considered foreclosed by the fact that these motions had been rejected. There's a foreclosure problem. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u94	Motions must be voted on as a whole.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u95	MARTELLI (M5S). It's got nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u98	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, from a procedural point of view, you put the motions to the vote a moment ago, stating that they would be voted on in the order of presentation, except for those parts which were not included in the previous votes. You said so and we can check it soon on the shorthand report. Now you take back what you said. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to stress what Mr Candiani and Mr De Petris have just said. Admitting the government's position, which provided for the vote on "full package," now we cannot go and vote on the motions again, as you said, which are already understood. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I agree, but this game of rejecting the sensible proposals of the 5 Star Movement to present them in a surreptitious way must end! You must take responsibility for what you do by denying common sense. You must be fair people in front of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u99	We shall therefore proceed with the vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 634 (text 2), tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that motion No 635 has been withdrawn and its content on the G3 agenda. We shall now proceed to the G1 agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u102	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the North-League Group calls for the G1 agenda to be signed (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u103	I take note of that, Senator Candiani. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we are asking for the vote on the G1 agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u106	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for the vote to be taken simultaneously by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u107	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), presented by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G2 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote on the G3 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for the vote to be taken simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator D'Alì, electronic voting has already been requested, so with this survey it will be possible to see also the presence of the quorum. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3, presented by Senators Vaccari, Marinello, Romano and Mazzoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u110	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I wanted to point out that I wanted to abstain on the G2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u113	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I wanted to make it clear that my Group's vote on motion 632 was abstention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of the two reports.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u116	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am unfortunately taking the floor to give some unfortunate news that I received this morning with Senator Ranucci and other colleagues. Our friend Senator Michele Forte, who was a senator for two legislatures and worked with us in this House, has disappeared. He was a great friend, a person deeply connected to his land. He was not only a senator, but also president of the Provincial Council of Latina and mayor of Formia: a man who devoted his entire existence to politics. At a time when politics is in crisis because there is no longer any relationship between the ruling class and ordinary people, I think Michele Forte gives us an extraordinary testimony. I wanted to remind him in this spirit, knowing that there are colleagues in this House from all the parties who have admired his strong vocation to politics, which also came before party membership. He was with me in all the political and party experiences I had, from Christian Democracy to today, but above all he was a friend of many of us who shared his passion. For this reason I believe that remembering Michele Forte represents an act of great institutional awareness and also a personal and moral duty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u119	RANUCCI (PD). Mr President, I would also like to mention Michele Forte, who was Mayor of Formia, as President Casini reminded us, from 1985 to 1992 and from 2008 to 2013. Formia is my homeland. He was in the Senate in the XIV and XV legislatures. He was Vice President of the Budget Commission and a member of the 8th Commission. As President Casini did, I would also like to remind you that she was a race politician, who was a politician on the ground. Beyond the different political affiliations, with Michele Forte we have always faced each other, sometimes clashed, but he has always linked me with a very long friendship. He was a politician who knew what people wanted and tried to solve the problems of his citizens and territories. I would therefore like to express, on behalf of the Group, the most affectionate closeness to the wife and children at this sad and painful moment for them but, I believe, also for the territory to which he belongs.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u120	I call on the House to observe a minute's recollection in memory of Michele Forte. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u123	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask for an answer to the question 2-00406, which we presented no less than last August 3. This is an urgent questioning, therefore signed by a tenth of the members of the Senate, which concerns the Ministry of Agricultural Policy and the rice sector. We have presented it in important times; it has now been more than a month. The sitting of the House this afternoon provides for questions and questions; there is a revolt to the Ministry of Agricultural Policy, but this urgent questioning is not yet on the agenda. I am sorry, but I have to ask through you, Mr President, for the presence of the Minister or a representative of yours, because the Rules of Procedure provide for a period of fifteen days for urgent questions to take place. The real risk here is that there will be a compromise in the economic levels mentioned in the motion, with a very serious and important risk for the sector. We are very concerned about this lack of answers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u124	We'll take care of it and try to push for the answer, Senator Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u127	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in February last year I tabled Question No 4-05369, addressed to the Minister for Labour and the Minister for Economic Development, in order to know the feasibility and practicality of the industrial policies of the Almaviva Group and, consequently, the employment prospects of workers on the Almaviva sites. The Almaviva headquarters in Palermo, which has seen two operational sites since 2001, manages the telephone service services for customers such as TIM, Vodafone, Wind and many others, such as Alitalia, Trenitalia and ENI, employing about 5,000 employees. First of all, therefore, the serious concerns about the future of the workers involved concerned precisely the safeguarding of jobs. The so-called Almaviva dispute was clearly a social emergency, also seen as the lack of an industrial policy condemns the region of Sicily to precariousness and social welfare. The crisis experienced by the Palermo offices of Almaviva, to be considered national, had to lead to intervention on the relocation, on the downward races below the cost of labor and on all those distortions or anomalies that stifle the companies of the sector which, in turn, make fall the consequences on the workers, at the same time altering the conditions for proper competition. The press learns that, to date, those answers so long awaited by the agreement dating back to August 2013, have not yet been received, so much so as to bring the national secretariats of all the unions, with a note sent jointly to the Ministry of Economic Development, to ask urgently for a meeting on the state of the order ENEL in Palermo today abandoned. From rumors of corridor, this meeting would seem to be fixed, by rumors of corridor, on October 20, then in about twenty days. The point is that Almaviva has already sent the recommendations to its employees, for a transfer that will take place on October 24, that is four days later. We urge the meeting to take place a little sooner, so that we can find a solution. This request stems from the decision of Almaviva, communicated to the above-mentioned trade unions, to proceed with the first unilateral transfers of workers employed in the ENEL order from the headquarters of Palermo. As I have already said, the letters arrived and on 24 October some of them will have to head to the new headquarters that is in Rende, in the province of Cosenza, that is in Calabria, however far from the Palermo headquarters and certainly for the workers it is not an easy place. The collective transfer of the 396 employees of Almaviva Contact of Palermo engaged in the order ENEL risks being a disguised dismissal, which denies the agreement of 30 May for the maintenance of the occupational levels of the company. The transfer desired by the company is not in fact compatible with the positions of the workers involved: working in Palermo or Calabria for the company is the same thing, but for a worker who receives 800 euros per month changes very much. I therefore address an invitation to the Deputy Minister of Economic Development Teresa Bellanova (who was also State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy, as well as trade unionist), who is certainly a competent person who cares about workers, so that he can find an agreement and an appointment before 20 October, as it was established, precisely to prevent these transfers. It seems that the owner of the company Almaviva, Mr. Marco Tripi, is allowed to relocate from Palermo to Rende in Calabria and that if he acquires local staff he has reductions from the point of view of the cost of the job. Also consider that, rather than going to work from Palermo to Rende for a small salary, these workers will likely quit, because they will not be able to endure this path. In this way the entrepreneur is given the opportunity to hire people from the place by sensing reductions, so the profit is everything for the enterprise and suffers the consequences who currently works in Palermo and will be relocated. So I really urge you to find a good synthesis to maintain both positions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u130	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, as everyone knows about the policy of welcoming migrants, there are very different positions in this House: certainly those of the Northern League are different from those of the Government, which has decided to welcome a river of people who seek luck in our country, imposing the inclusion of reception centres throughout the national territory with fairly strong methods, without involving the mayors and without giving information to the communities. There are, therefore, substantial differences, but we ask the Government to use at least common sense in the management of this phenomenon, which we do not share across the board. It is unacceptable that, in the face of the influxes now unstoppable from North Africa, the Government does not prevent excessive concentrations of reception centres and refugees in a given territory. This is now happening throughout Italy, but in particular with this intervention I would like to point out what is happening in the province of Padua and in particular in Abano Terme, a laughing spa resort of our Venetian territory that lives on tourism, where the prefect, with full powers assigned to him by Minister Alfano, without consulting local administrators, is planning the installation of a hub that could accommodate hundreds if not thousands of refugees. This should take place in a disused barracks that the previous administration intended to acquire from the state property (with an agreement already signed) for a useful development to the municipal territory and that the prefectial commissioner who currently governs the fate of the community of Abano, in agreement with the prefect of Padua, has canceled instead, intending to realize in this abandoned barracks the said hub. I remember that in the neighbouring territory, that is to say Cona and Bagnoli di Sopra, two small municipalities of the provinces of Venice and Padua, there are hubs that host up to 2,000 refugees. It is therefore clear to everyone that, in the face of an unholy policy, there is no limit to the worst on the part of the prefects and Minister Alfano, who at least do not grasp the need not to create these settlements so crowded and so close, so much as to arouse the anger of the people. It's not a protest anymore, it's a real rage. There have been demonstrations by thousands of citizens in those territories and there is an appeal against the action of the prefectial commissioner. There is now an insuffering that is now in danger of becoming explosive. Since we do not want this situation to be reached, we ask for a formal commitment - and not generic words, like those expressed yesterday during the question time in the Chamber by Minister Alfano - to that the hub in Abano Terme will not be used, that the concentration of refugees in the territory of the Padua Municipalities that I mentioned will be reduced and that there will be more intelligence and attention on the part of the Ministry of the Interior in dealing with this real emergency. We are not there, we are no longer content with the words, in addition to general ones, of Minister Alfano. We want concrete facts. Let's say no to Abano Terme's hub. [[Applause from Senator Comaroli and the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u133	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, last Tuesday, the Ministry of Economic Development held yet another working table on the manufacturing pole of the former British American Tobacco. These are 154 workers who are the victims of a scam conversion. The actors in this affair were the Municipality, the MISE and the unions. The town that wakes up today to say that these workers must be relocated, where they were in all the years gone by? This story eventually became a farce, due to all the work tables, meetings, promises and various sellers of pots holes that have happened over time. The work tables that took place at MISE then turned into nothing. These workers have been waiting for answers for four years, during which there have also been very, very special events. I remember that there was a suicide and protests, the last of which occurred when Renzi went to Lecce to attend a meeting and the workers tried to approach him. The workers thought well to send a letter to Renzi to solicit it. For this reason, the MISE considered it appropriate to meet the parties involved just last Tuesday. However, the meeting has turned into yet another hole in the ocean. The municipality wakes up now and tries to be the paladin of France, saying that it is necessary to find a solution, while the MISE declares that it wants to support every path that can lead to a solution. The unions continue to say: we can do, we must do. Yet, the 5 Star Movement has provided solutions and has also addressed the former British American Tobacco, which a few months ago even stated that it has invested a billion euros in projects intended to re-evaluate the Made in Italy. The MISE has also been proposed to involve other multinationals in the sector. The speech is as follows: is there or is there no political will to save these workers? I remember that on 7 May these workers went on mobility. What are they gonna do after that? Do we want to give these people another chance, which is not to get closer and closer to the edge of the abyss? Do we want to find feasible solutions? I should like to conclude by recalling that I have asked for a hearing of workers in the Commission to be held on 13 May 2015. Do we want to give these workers a voice? Do we want to find solutions? What does this government want to do? Do you want to make sure that Puglia, Salento and above all Lecce and the manufacturing center of the former British American Tobacco return to their splendour by bringing back the excellences in the best investment plans?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-689.ana.u134	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.26 a.m.
