ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 19 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2195, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Fabbri and Laniece, have requested authorization to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. [[Brusio.]] I therefore call on the rapporteur, Senator Fabbri, if her colleagues allow her to present the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 191 of 4 December 2015 aims to speed up and implement the procedure for the transfer to third parties of Ilva's business complexes, currently in extraordinary administration through a financial, industrial and management stabilisation of the steel group, aiming at maintaining employment levels and increasing environmental protection. The ratio of the emergency measure... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u10	Senator Malan, give me a hand as a Quaestor to silence those who prevent the conduct of the relationship.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u11	FABBRI, rapporteur. The ratio of the emergency measure is based on the improrogability of a decisive environmental recovery, inseparable from the industrial revival of the major industrial complex for the processing of steel in Europe. To combine the implementation of an efficient industrial plan with the right to work, the right to health and the right to the environment (not only for workers, but for all citizens of Taranto) was the objective that has animated all the legislative measures taken in recent years (especially in the course of 2015) and that now needs a further and decisive impulse towards the environmental recovery and the cession of the business assets of the ILVA. It is well known that the exceptional nature of the situation of the ILVA Group requires interventions of environmental, economic and labour policy that does not adversely affect the market mechanisms and do not affect the rules of competition, bearing in mind that the resources necessary for the reclamation and restoration of the environment, safety, health and salaries of employees (14,000 workers only in the plant in Taranto, with particular attention to workers in solidarity of the plant in Genoa Cornigliano), as well as the interests of the creditors of the induced, through the guarantee fund for the small and medium enterprises supplying ILVA, according to more extensive criteria. In addition, Decree No 191 moves from the necessity and urgency to intervene as a result of the failure of the Swiss judicial authority to return the resources seized from the Riva family, destined to a special fund of the Ministry of the Environment for the Bonifications. The 800 million euros will therefore be allocated to the State, in return for the joint investment established by the same ILVA decree, in favour of the subsidies. The first rule of the decree-law amends Article 4 of Decree-Law No. 347 of 2003, establishing that by the commissioner the identification and the choice of the tenant and/or the buyer of the company under private negotiation take place through the criteria of the productive continuity of the industrial plant, with the guarantee of adequate levels of employment, as well as the speed and efficiency of the reorganization intervention, which now must also be referred to the environmental protection profiles. This is an important index for the choice of the tenant or buyer, which links the timing and effectiveness of the restoration to the value of environmental protection as a real priority criterion. It is expected that the study of the rent or the price of the sale of the goods, not less than those of the market, will be carried out, as well as by the primary financial institution, as an alternative by a company consultancy company, also designated by the Ministry of Economic Development. In the field of the successful tenderer's choice, it is also necessary that offers of the renter or buyer's potential be accompanied, at the same time as the tender is submitted, by an industrial and financial plan, in which the investments must be indicated, with the necessary financial resources and the relevant means of coverage, which are intended to be carried out in order to ensure the aforementioned aims, as well as the strategic objectives of the industrial production of the plants of the group. The forecast allows the award of the rent or property of the company only to those who can provide a plan suitable from the industrial and financial point of view, also with regard to the purpose of environmental restoration, which thus assumes the function of a real precondition for accessing the procedure of choice. Paragraph 2 sets at 30 June 2016 the deadline within which ILVA Group commissioners must carry out the procedures for the transfer of business complexes, thus pursuing speed, efficiency and consistency with respect to the emergency of environmental issues. And do not neglect that this must be done by ensuring the discontinuity, even economic, of the management by the contracting party (s). (This standard is to be read in conjunction with Article 1 of the Stability Act for 2016). It should be noted that in paragraph 3 this discontinuity, with a view to a rapid transfer, is aimed at ensuring at the same time the continuation of the activity, in order to meet the requirements of protection of the environment, health and employment. But a discontinuity with respect to the past harmful to the environment and the continuation of industrial activity with the protection of the living and working environment, the health of workers and employment levels, exceptionally requires an economic availability through the provision in favour of the extraordinary administration of the ILVA Group of the sum of 300 million euros. The provisional nature, urgency, indefectibility and improrogability of such a supply shall be demonstrated by the sole purpose of speeding up the process of transfer from the rules referred to in paragraphs 3-5 of Article 1 under which the successful tenderer of the company's assets shall return to the State the amount paid, plus interest, within 60 days of the decree of termination of the business. This is a availability which in fact creates an obligation in respect of the future successful tenderer against which the State already automatically places itself as a non-subjector of public aid, but which has a well-defined right of credit in the amount, interest (Euribor at 6 months) and in the execution time (sixty days from the decree of termination of the business). The primary aim of this availability is to support in a decisive way the process of transfer of the company, guaranteeing at the same time the continuation of the activity, the requirements of protection of the environment, health and work. This is all the more true if we consider the rule of paragraph 6 that for the payment of the prededucible debts contracted during the extraordinary administration, it provides that the ILVA Group's commissioner body provides, also by way of derogation from article 111- bis of the bankruptcy law (where it provides, if the asset is insufficient, the distribution according to the criteria of graduation and proportionality, in accordance with the order assigned by law). Consistent corollary of this last provision is constituted by the extension of the exemption of criminal and administrative liability provided for in article 2, paragraph 6, of Decree-Law No 1 of 2015 also to civil liability. The norm previewed from the paragraph 6-a introduced during the examination to the Chamber of Deputies authorizes the extraordinary commissioners to contract state financings for 800 million euros (600 million in 2016 and 200 million in 2017); it is an exceptional authorization previewed from the paragraph 6-a to the exclusive purpose of the implementation and the realization of the Plan of the measures and activities of environmental and health nature... in compliance with the norms of the European Union in matter... There can therefore be no doubt about the regulatory objective aimed at the non-priority but exclusive protection of the environment, health and public safety (goods that in an emergency situation and extraordinary administration can only be protected by the state in a dominant way compared to market protection). As certainly there is an express respect for the European legislation set out in paragraph 6-a as regards the financing contract and in paragraph 10 as regards all the procedures provided for in Article 1. It should be noted that also in this case interest is expected (Euribor at 6 months plus a spread of 3 percent). In this way, one intervenes in partial overlap with the provisions of Article 1, paragraph 837 of the Stability Act for 2016, which is therefore partially repealed. In that provision, the reference is to safety and health protection, now to health protection. We must not overlook the requirement to take action for the recovery, liability and compensation of damage to those who have caused environmental and health damage, as well as to the ILVA Group and its assets. The deadline for the implementation of the Environmental and Health Protection Measures and Activities Plan (approved by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers 14 March 2014) is reasonably set at 30 June 2017, as a result of an amendment introduced by the Chamber extending by six months the deadline of 31 December 2016 provided for in the original text of the Decree-Law. The article 1, paragraph 6 -opties, introduced by the Chamber, modifies the parameters for access to credit for small and medium-sized enterprises that are suppliers of goods and services related to the activity of environmental recovery or necessary for the continuation of the activity of the ILVA with an amount of 35 million euros in the guarantee fund. It should be noted that on the protection of these small and medium-sized enterprises the law of stability for 2016 has also recently intervened, referring to a decree of the Ministry of Economic Development the definition of specific criteria of economic and financial assessment - that take into account the characteristics of the particular needs of the aforementioned enterprises - for access to the guarantee fund. Paragraph 6 -octies confirms these criteria and adds that the same must take into account in particular the requirements of access to the credit of undertakings if, for at least two years, even if not consecutive, from 2011, they have had a turnover constituted at least 50% of the amount in services, works and supplies rendered to ILVA. The paragraphs 6 -novies and 6 -decies inserted by the Chamber concern the workers of the ILVA plant of Genoa Cornigliano, of which it is guaranteed the maintenance of the occupational continuity assured also through the recourse to the institute of the socially useful work, for which the workers beneficiaries of instruments of support of the income in constancy of the job relationship can be called to carry out an activity of public utility for the territorial community of belonging. Moreover, for the same workers of the ILVA plant in Genoa Cornigliano, inserted in defensive solidarity contracts before the entry into force of the jobs act, the increase of the wage integration of 10% of the lost salary continues to apply. It is of these hours, colleagues, the news of the mobilization of the workers of this plant, of which we understand the concerns, but to which we also say that this decree-law has as its objective to guarantee the continuity of employment, the contribution of solidarity until 30 September 2016 and, as already said, the possibility of resorting to the work socially useful to rely on a fund for the Bonifications already covered until 2019, part of the program agreement. Paragraph 6 -undecies regulates the use of any amounts confiscated to the outcome of criminal proceedings, also other than those for environmental offences or related to the implementation of the AIA in respect of the owners of the enterprise, members, directors and those who have exercised roles of management and coordination on the enterprise before the commissioning. These sums must be paid - as a result of the transfer of the ILVA Group - to the State in return for the state loan of 800 million euros, referred to in paragraph 6. The limits to which guarantees will be granted to companies are also indicated and the procedures for amending the Plan of Environmental and Health Protection Measures and Activities. During the first reading, an obligation was introduced for the successful tenderer to submit to Parliament, for at least five years, a six-monthly report on the state of industrial conversion and the environmental and health protection activities of the Ilva SpA plant in Taranto. It is also expected that the commissioners of the ILVA Group will send Parliament a report on the activity carried out with regard to the material present in the ILVA plant in Taranto that may contain asbestos or radioactive material within six months of the entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree-law (comma 10 - bis). Finally, paragraph 10 contains a safeguard clause for European legislation in line with the guidelines on State aid for rescuing and restructuring non-financial firms in difficulty, since the regulatory intervention of the Decree-Law can be framed as temporary support for restructuring, which can be granted in the form of liquidity support with limited amount and duration, in the form of loan or loan guarantees, as in the case of ILVA. After a long historical-economic phase, which saw the country bent for almost ten years by an unprecedented crisis and just as we begin to witness a change of pace in economic-productive and occupational rhythms, we have the duty to seize in this affair of the ILVA an opportunity and a possibility, also to prevent yet another productive impoverishment and to restore a balance of environmental and health justice, especially in the Taranto territory, rightly risen to a national issue. This is a subject that directly attaches to the sense of political and institutional responsibility, given the importance of this productive reality and, therefore, given its impact on the social fabric. Some parliamentary forces, who have also feared with a certain falconry and irresponsibility - let me tell you - the hypothesis of abandoning the ILVA to their own destiny, perhaps do not appear well to themselves and do not appear well especially to the country what this abandonment would entail in terms of jobs, therefore of human existences and also of possible and sustainable development. The word crisis - also in this specific case, linked to the main industrial complex for the processing of steel in Europe - must therefore be interpreted according to its etymology, which dates back to the Greek verb Krino, which has the meaning of separating, but also of judging and choosing. "Crisi," therefore, as a moment that introduces a separation, a fracture between a before and after and which, for this reason, presents a positive characterization, as an opportunity to introduce a change and an improvement, taking a position, judging and, precisely, choosing. And that is what the Government has done and is doing, with a great sense of responsibility, having well in mind the history and proportions of this steel industry, which counts - it is worth remembering - at the national level about 20,000 employees, with the plant in Taranto that sees it engaged 11,000, plus 3,000 in the induced. Without underestimating the sector represented by small and medium-sized enterprises supplying ILVA, which is an economic and employment fabric which is not negligible. A reality - that of the Ilva - which we have had the opportunity to verify in its importance, also on the occasion of the institutional mission which, as the Committee of Inquiry into accidents at work and occupational diseases, of which I am President, we carried out last September. During the hearings carried out in the prefecture, in Taranto, among which, of course, those of the trade union organizations, clear and profound was the concern given us by the same, if we exclude minimum distinction, towards the hypothesis of a company failure, precisely because of the social function covered by this productive activity that, only in Taranto, we remember, counts 14,000 workers. ILVA is therefore an indispensable occupational garrison for our country and in particular for that Mezzogiorno whose development, as has been said several times, depends on the development of Italy as a whole. If I may add, even as I am President of the above-mentioned Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, it was also essential for us, on that occasion of a direct visit to the plant, to see how to guarantee safety at work, including as a strategic factor in competitiveness and recovery. The decree-law in question therefore reflects the need to respond to a necessity, such as the overcoming of the extraordinary administration, in order to create the conditions to guarantee a productive and occupational future, which, as a process of industrial revival for the future, can only be marked by environmental recovery and environmental sustainability, especially in a territory that, like Taranto, paid a very salty price. This approach, which sees a synthesis between the right to work and the right to health (i.e. overcoming the long season in which these rights were opposed), is not only a reference lighthouse for the industrial policy designed by this Government for the future of ILVA, but also guides the immediate management and management that, as stated in the Decree-Law in question, aim to speed up the procedure for the transfer to third parties of the industrial complexes of the company, currently in extraordinary administration, through a financial, industrial and management stabilization of the steel group, aiming to maintain employment levels and increase environmental protection. The continuity of production, with a view to a sale, and environmental protection are never mutually exclusive, but rather appear, in the established measures, two inseparable elements. Environmental protection is a guiding criterion set by the Government for the choice of the third party to which ILVA is to be transferred, in line with the commitments made by the European Union on the decarbonisation of production processes with a high environmental impact during the recent institutional appointment of COP21 in Paris, therefore as an obligation towards an industrial modernization in a sustainable sense. In fact, the objective of implementing the Environmental and Health Protection Measures and Activities Plan (the so-called AIA requirements), deferred only in June 2017, i.e. allowing a reasonable time for a reasonable implementation, remains firm. Environmental protection is, as urgent and necessary, also at the center of the immediate intervention of the State provided for by the decree-law in question with a financing of 800 million euros in favor of the Bonifiche. The recovery of these sums is foreseen through the mechanism for returning the resources seized to the Riva family (about 1.2 billion euros) following the seizure by the Swiss judicial authority, whose news we hope can arrive quickly. It should not be forgotten, in fact, that on the environmental issue depends a procedure of infringement in the matter of environmental legislation, which makes the interventions of rehabilitation at the ILVA sites more urgent, as recognized by the same Government. Such action must, of course, be respectful and consistent with European State aid rules. Mr President, I should like to conclude by mentioning the terms of the European Commission's investigation into the possible state aid provided to ILVA in the form of financing and measures taken as a result of the crisis of production overcapacity in the world sector and the scale which, in this critical context, the Taranto site assumes in Europe as the largest steel plant, capable of decisively impacting and, therefore, also significantly distorting the Community competition mechanism. This is an investigation - and not an infringement procedure - which the EU Competition Commissioner himself, Margrethe Vestager, described in the following terms: We will work with Italy to overcome our current concerns. The best guarantee of a sustainable future for steel production in Tarantino is the transfer of ILVA's activities to a buyer who complies with environmental standards and exploits them for production purposes. Italy can support the restoration of the serious environmental situation on the site of Taranto provided that the expenditure is then reimbursed by the polluter. The European Commission therefore recognises the need for government regulatory action to deal with an environmental emergency that we can call historic for its ancient origin and its proportion over time. We are talking about government regulatory measures and public investment, which, as the EU Commissioner for Competition points out, must be subject to the "polluter pays" principle, provided for in the decree-law under consideration when the state is required to take action against those responsible for the environmental condition with interest. We are therefore faced with a government operation within the boundaries of the Community principle of competition, which does not confer an undue advantage on competitors in the sector. Moreover, just last week the extraordinary administration of Ilva asked for 2 billion euros, as compensation damages, to the Riva family and the related companies. The application was filed at the civil court in Milan by the three commissioners of the Taranto steel group. We listen from several parts, with delegitimatory intent, as if it were a fault of this Government, that we are in the presence of the ninth decree-law dedicated to the ILVA. To this objection, instrumental because in many cases only to inflame an exquisitely political conflict, I answer asking what the alternative was. Perhaps its failure and, with it, the end of thousands of jobs, the closure of the major industrial complex for the processing of steel in Europe with particular consequence for the South, the procrastination of the reclamation and environmental rehabilitation of the Taranto area? Because this would have happened if the Government had not assumed the responsibility and the burden of putting in place a strategy of response to a critical situation that, it is well remembered, has its roots in the past, in the years and has been inherited in the maximum of its virulence. It is a critical situation, in the balance of collective responsibilities, also of those political and parliamentary forces which, even today in this House, oppose the measure for political opportunism, pretending not to see, therefore, how the wound ILVA is not a recent and new phenomenon. Those in this House, on the other hand, think that it is appropriate and preferable to lower the curtain on the Taranto plant - depriving the South of this precious occupational reservoir, perhaps proposing to engage their employees in socially useful work or in the Bonifici - seem to be victims of a rather worrying dreamlike experience and that, of course, does not fit, as an attitude, a political-parliamentary class called to solve the problems of citizens with realistic and forward-looking prospects, that is, able to look to the future, especially when the issue in question concerns the fate of a company of 20,000 employees that has its main centre in the Mezzogiorno of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u12	I call the rapporteur, Senator Laniece.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u13	Mr President, in addition to Mr Fabbri's comprehensive and comprehensive report, I will focus on the specific aspects of the Environment Commission, the environmental and health aspects of the converted Decree-Law, which focus, above all, on the provisions of Article 1, paragraphs 6-a, 6-undecies, 7, 8 and 9. In particular, paragraph 6 -bis, introduced during the conversion process of the decree-law at the Chamber of Deputies, authorizes the commissioners of the ILVA Group, for the sole purpose of the implementation and implementation of the Plan of measures and activities of environmental and health protection (one of the main objectives of this and of all the previous measures) of the enterprise in extraordinary administration, to contract state financing, in compliance with the legislation of the European Union in this matter, for an amount - it has already been remembered before - up to 800 million euros, of which up to 600 million euros in 2016 and up to 200 million euros in 2017. Such financing is provided in accordance with procedures established by decree of the Minister of Economic Development, in agreement with the Minister of Economy and Finance and with the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, and the relative amounts are entered in the appropriate chapter of the state of forecast of the Ministry of Economic Development. In addition, interest shall be accrued on the amounts paid at the six-month percentage rate of Euribor published on the working day preceding the date of payment, plus a spread of 3%, while the reimbursement shall take place in the same financial year in which the amounts were paid, or in another financial year where appropriate legislative provision is taken into account. The commissioners of the ILVA Group will have to take into account the commitments made by the tenderers and the impact on them of the necessity to resort to the aforementioned financing within the procedure of awarding the transfer of the business complexes described in article 1, paragraph 2 of the measure. It is also expected that the criteria for choosing the contractor used by the Commissioners of the ILVA Group will be contained in a report sent to the Chambers by 30 July 2016. The debts accrued by the State for capital and interest are satisfied in prededuction - it has already been remembered - but subject to those prededucible of the other creditors of the extraordinary administration procedure and those of the employees of the society (privileged creditors pursuant to article 2751-a, number 1 of the civil code). However, there is an obligation to activate the actions of revenge, liability and compensation against persons who have caused, even indirectly, environmental and health damage, as well as damage to the ILVA Group and its assets. Paragraph 6-undecies, also introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, provides that, following the transfer of the corporate complexes of the ILVA Group, the amounts possibly confiscated or otherwise received to the State definitively at the outcome of criminal proceedings, also different from those for environmental offences or related to the implementation of the integrated environmental authorisation, at the expense of the owner of the company, or, in the case of a company exercised in company form, at the expense of the majority members or of the institutions, or of the respective members or directors, who, before the commissioning, have carried out management and coordination activities on the company, except for what is due for expenses of justice, are paid, up to the amount of 800 million euros, at the entry of the State budget by way of repayment of the State loan referred to in paragraph 6-a and, for the excess part, on the special accounts referred to in Article 3, paragraph 2, of Decree-Law No 1 of 5 January 2015, converted, with amendments, by law 4 March 2015, n. 20, to be allocated to the financing of interventions for the rehabilitation and environmental reclamation and, and, subordinately, to the redevelopment and conversion and production of the contaminated sites, in the municipalities of the Tarnto and in the municipalities. Paragraph 7 of the draft law under consideration sets at 30 June 2017 the deadline for the implementation of the Plan of measures and activities of environmental and health protection - hopefully it is really the last - approved by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers 14 March 2014, including the prescriptions of the decree of the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea of 3 February 2014, n. 53. The deadline to 30 June 2017 is due to an amendment approved by the Chamber of Deputies, which extends for six months the original deadline of 31 December 2016 provided for in the original text of the decree-law. Paragraph 8 introduces a new procedure for the modification or integration of the Plan of measures and activities of environmental and health protection or of other authorization necessary for the operation of the steel plant Ilva SpA of Taranto, if it becomes necessary in relation to the realization of the industrial and financial plan proposed by the successful tenderer pursuant to article 4, paragraph 4-c, of Decree-Law No 347 of 2003. In fact, it is expected that changes or additions to the plan will be authorised, on a specific request, by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and the Minister of Health, after resolution of the Council of Ministers, which takes place, where necessary, of the environmental impact assessment (EIA). It is also specified that the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers must be adopted on a proposal from the Minister of the Environment, after consulting the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA), and that this decree guarantees the full and constant respect of the emissive limits established at European level. Paragraph 8 provides, moreover, that the relative investigation and that for the implementation of the modifications of the plan are carried out pursuant to paragraphs 5 and 9 of Article 1 of Decree-Law No 61 of 2013, where compatible (these rules govern respectively the procedures for the approval of the plan and for the conduct of the conference of services in the realization of the works and works previewed from the AIA and from the same plan). Finally, paragraph 9 has been completely replaced during the examination of the decree at the Chamber of Deputies and provides that, for the modifications and additions of the Plan of measures and activities of environmental and health protection and other authorization titles, other than those necessary for the implementation of the industrial plan and authorized according to the provisions of paragraph 8, are applied Title III- bis of the second part of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006, which regulates the procedures concerning the integrated environmental authorisation, as well as the other ordinary disciplines of the sector. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u14	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with yet another speech on Ilva. In more than three and a half years, successive governments have not even identified the start of a strategy for relaunching the steel group. All the attempts put in place so far have resolved in negative performances, and not only in terms of production or, at best, in a matter of fact. Of course, the responsibilities must be assigned not only to the Commission, but to the complex system that manages and influences the industrial life of Ilva: from the extraordinary commissioners, whose strongest competences are certainly not related to the steel industry, to the judiciary. And I say this not in order to make a criticism, but in order to report a fact: the investigations of the judiciary have sometimes represented yet another brake for the production cycle of the plants. On the merits, the Government, with this last decree-law, has taken note of the wrong strategy and goes backwards. At the end of 2014, a newco was planned for the following spring, which would have taken over ownership and management, within the framework of a plan of 2 billion, which also considered the return of the 1.2 billion of the Riva family. Now, instead, the group is put on sale, according to a procedure that is expected to be completed by June 2016. Meanwhile, by February 10th, the companies concerned, which may be individual or in concert, Italian or foreign, will have to present their own manifestation of interest. In addition to Ilva SpA, ILVA is part of seven other companies in total, whose activities are functional to the production of steel, and are ILVA maritime services, Ilvaform, INNSE Cilindri, Sanac, Taranto Energia, Socova and Tillet. Scenarios of separate sales of assets, i.e. a partial sale or even rental of one or more establishments or of a branch of a holding, could occur. Scenarios of divisions of the assets of the group cannot but arouse ulterior worry for the effective maintenance of the current levels of employment, moreover already reduced in recent years, of the Italian productive poles and of the company guide in our Country. It is clear that Forza Italia does not want to participate in the game of "so much worse, so much better" on the skin of thousands of workers and an important piece of a history that belongs to us and of the industrial future of Italy. But the criticisms concern the ways in which the whole affair has been handled so far, until it has to sell a good that has inevitably become, unfortunately, unappetizing for the market. The extraordinary administration since 21 January 2015 has failed to raise the fate of ILVA, which has continued to produce at ever lower levels and inevitably lose value. ILVA currently works with 3 out of 5 blast furnaces (numbers 1, 2 and 4) and daily production (17,000 tons of steel) amounts to just over half of industrial capacity (30,000 tons). 2015 closed with an average daily of 13,000 tons, reaching a total annual of 4.8 million tons: this meant a worrying decline of 1.5 million tons compared to 2014, which had also made a timid step forward compared to the disastrous performance of 2013. To this scenario we must add the constant decline in steel production in our country (from 26 million tons in 2010 to 20 million in last year), but also the factor of legal volatility inherent in our system, where the rules are changed in a repeated and hasty way (see precisely the ILVA decrees), where the level of conflict in industrial relations is high and where we have even arrived to witness a clash between the judiciary and the Government for the operation of a blast furnace. As if all this were not enough, the government will have to engage on two further fronts. The first concerns Europe: the Commission has opened an infringement procedure against our country to determine whether the approximately 2 billion public resources, of which ILVA has benefited, can be regarded as state aid, prohibited by European law. The second front, with no positive prospects at least in the short term, concerns the resources of the Riva family blocked in Switzerland: this is 1.2 billion which, in the Government's intentions, should have contributed to environmental recovery, but which were held by the Swiss judges because in the state there is no sentence against the Riva family that would legitimize the confiscation of resources. We are all aware, therefore, that ILVA is not, unfortunately, an attractive investment at present. And this leads us to another reflection: even admitting that the transfer procedure does not end with anything in fact, the buyer subject, for all the reasons listed so far, will have every interest in changing the status quo of the group, implementing - for example - a company restructuring that would inevitably affect the interests of the workers, the cities that host the plants and our industrial system, and not only in the steel industry. Starting towards the conclusion, in the absence of a specific program agreement such as that of 2005, signed thanks to the Berlusconi Government, all the ex ante guarantees that the Government could put as conditions to the future buyer will inevitably be of a more political than legal character, valorizing above every other the freedom of the entrepreneur to manage own business. That is why the conditions should be created not only to make it interesting to buy ILVA, but also to make it unnecessary and even desirable for a drastic change of course that would be painful for everyone. So let us try to propose solutions that can reconcile the interests of the workers, the citizens, the justice that must take its course, the environment and the health of all. For example, specific limits could be laid down to blockage and seizure of the facilities that the judiciary today has the power to dispose of (and which has often been in place in recent years) or to provide for a gradual equivalence of environmental parameters at the levels of the large European competing groups, currently higher because of the recovery plan to which the ILVA is subject, but objectively too heavy to allow full re-launching of production. At stake is the future of a founding part of our industrial system, which gives work to thousands of people and constitutes the reference for important territorial realities of our country. We must, therefore, really restart the machine, involving all the parties involved in various ways, because that is the only way to find the resources to finance environmental rehabilitation, to pay the debts to the companies who believe in the pipeline and to guarantee employment in particular. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u16	Senator Rossi Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u17	Mr President, first of all, I think it is important for this House to know what is happening in Genoa, where the tension is very strong these days. The city has been totally blocked for two days by the workers who requested the presence of the Minister at the meeting on 4 February. The meeting had been communicated verbally and yesterday the convocation arrived. The workers ask, however, for the presence of the Government, and I think it is right. The government must find a solution to the legitimate demands of the workers. Renzi put his face on Taranto. There must not be, of course, a battle between Taranto and Genoa. Of course. It is a problem that concerns both factories, but the government's presence at the table is crucial. As far as the decree-law is concerned, I think a great mess has been made. It is not clear what the project is and who the privatisation ban expires on 10 February. It is not clear which guarantees and social clauses will have to be respected by the private individual concerned and, above all, it is not clear what will happen to the programme agreement and whether the buyer will be required to comply with it. Not only that: it is not clear if there is money for the Environmental Plan and if the money blocked by the Swiss magistrates affects this investment. I repeat again that, in the face of all this, it is legitimate for the trade unions to see a member of the Government sitting at the supervisory committee table, who must respond to political choices and draw up a credible framework for the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u18	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u19	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, Ilva is not only the largest steel mill in Europe, but is a strategic activity for our country's industrial structure. Italy is, in fact, the second European manufacturing country of transformation with high process and product technology and quality steel is the fundamental material both in the consumer sectors (cars and appliances) and in automation. Many competitors and lobbyists wish and work, starting with the Germans and the Indians, for the ILVA to close or enter a long agony. The national interest, on the other hand, is to realize the Bonifiche previewed from the AIA and the interventions demanded from the judiciary, utilizing this opportunity to invest, renew the systems and increase the quality of the product. Health of the citizens of Taranto, safety at work for the employees of the ILVA and guarantees for the jobs can be together if you open the investment chapter, investments that the Riva family, former owner of the ILVA, has not made, indeed has diverted resources from the company and has escaped the Italian tax. Well they have done the current commissioners appointed by the Government to ask the Riva family for two billion damages caused to the ILVA with behavior considered illegal for our legislation. In this action they will have to be strongly supported by our Government. In the same way, the judiciary of Taranto and Milan worked well to enforce the law to those who believed themselves omnipotent until causing enormous damage to the Apulian population and the environment. Italy of Values has always supported the right action of the judiciary and the consistent action of the Government to prevent the ILVA from being buried, first by the Riva family and then, finally, by competing lobbyists. It takes at least two years to clean up and restructure and, consequently, the social instruments most suitable for achieving the objective of industrial recovery and recovery must be used. These brief considerations give rise to our two amendments (1.48 and 1.73). The first corrects a serious error of the Minister of Labour, which has upset the legislation on solidarity contracts in terms of both the costs to companies and the economic treatment of workers. The Italy of Values proposes that the treatment of solidarity contracts in force on the date of agreements between the company and trade unions and, in any case, before the entry into force of the jobs act be restored - today in this measure for the ILVA and tomorrow for the entire production system. It is true that the paragraph 6- decies of this decree-law previews that, for the workers of the plant ILVA of Genoa-Cornigliano, the increment of the treatment of wage integration, to the extent of 10 percent of the salary lost as a result of the reduction of the working time, previewed from the norm in force until 2015, is continued to apply until 30 September 2016 with a limit of expenditure of 1,7 million euros. But it's not exhaustive. And that is why we believe it is necessary to return to the treatment of the solidarity contracts in force on the date of the agreements between the company and the unions and, in any case, before the entry into force - as already said - of the jobs act. The defensive solidarity contracts applied for Genova Cornigliano before the entry into force of Legislative Decree no. 148 of 14 September 2015, extended to date for this reality until September 2016, will probably be insufficient. Therefore, an ante-reform solution is desirable, which restores the so-called solidarity contracts at least until a more effective and concrete economic recovery, conceivable in 2018. The cost of solidarity contracts is quietly covered by the massive reduction in the extraordinary integration fund recorded in 2015 (less than 35 percent), which will continue in 2016. The second amendment provides that the population of Taranto and the workers are involved in the monitoring and verification of environmental data, in order to control the effectiveness of the Bonifications. Our proposal on solidarity contracts will allow to respond both to the 500 Ligurian workers and to the 4,500 Apulian involved in the agreements for the above-mentioned contracts, thus guaranteeing the Company the necessary serenity to face the restructuring of the ILVA and the inhabitants of Taranto to get out of the nightmare that contrasts for years the sacrosanct defense of health and the environment with the work. [[Applause from Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u20	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I open this speech by asking the classic question: what comes first, health or work? With frankness, bearing in mind also the objective difficulties of the workers of the Ilva, who cannot of course be abandoned, the answer, in a martyred territory like that of Taranto, should be the closure of all the polluting sources, an extensive and effective reclamation to preserve the health of men, women and children who, for sixty years, have been subjected to a slow and gradual poisoning, and the start of a great plan of conversion, trying to preserve both the needs. What's stopping us from doing that? The protection of jobs in an area where we are no longer competitive? The risk of a business crisis that would result? There are not many reasons, except the awareness of not being able to recognize steel as a strategic sector for Italy. On the economic side, ILVA represents at full capacity, with its 8 million tons of steel, less than 30 percent of Italian production and 0.5 percent of world production (now equals about 1,600 million tons annually). At present, however, ILVA loses EUR 50 million per month and has 3 billion debts. So, it's absolutely a failure. Moreover, the steel market suffers from an estimated production overcapacity of around 300 million tonnes, of which 150 in China alone. We produce, that is, more than what we need and the countries that have larger stocks and produce at much lower costs, such as China or India, are competitively unattainable. In this context, do you really think that you will continue to produce steel without a market, continuing to poison the population of a territory? From a legal point of view, ILVA has many problems. The expropriation to the Riva will be claimed in the courts and we run the risk of paying the damages to the family that has poisoned Taranto for twenty years. The Aggregation Group (Ilva minority shareholders), for example, decided to sue the Government for compensation of 300 million, after the expropriation immediately on the steel company. Claudio Riva and the other children of the late patron Emilio are following other ways to ask the government for damages. On the environmental and health side, even if the AIA were completed, the health impact assessment of ARPA indicates that the health risk of contracting carcinogenic diseases would increase from 24,000 to 12,000 people per year. This is unacceptable: 12,000 people at risk of cancer to produce a steel without a market. No matter where it is observed, ILVA has only one possible port: the closure of the plant in Taranto, the relocation of the direct employees, the support to the induced in order to allow the diversification; a wide industrial conversion that puts to the center the man and the local development of the territory in an ecological and innovative key. It is not a utopia, and it is less expensive than any plan to revive the production of uncompetitive, polluting and produced steel in old and out-of-standard plants. Only last week - as you will recall - there were two accidents with five injured, fortunately not serious, inside the plant. Conversely, the closure of the ILVA means the reopening of a concrete perspective for Taranto, its seas and the hinterland. I will now read you some statements not mine: The urgent challenge of protecting our common home includes the concern to unite the whole human family in the search for sustainable and integral development. Special thanks are due to those who struggle vigorously to solve the dramatic consequences of environmental degradation. Young people demand a change from us. They wonder how it is possible to expect to build a better future without thinking about the environmental crisis. These statements are by Pope Francis, contained in his encyclical "Laudato si'". They are an appeal and a call to the consciences of all of us who do not need further comments. The real challenge of the ILVA in Taranto is to relocate 20,000 workers as well as to clean up and convert the entire area; a huge challenge that, however, in Europe has already been won by a region of France, the Nord Pas de Calais. In this region of 4 million inhabitants with seven steel mills and two coal mines, politics has chosen the rich and clean future, created thanks to a new industrial revolution embraced and strongly wanted by the local authorities, real protagonists of the territory. Today, thanks to careful planning, the economy of that territory has taken off. Over two years more than 150 start-ups and small and medium-sized companies have been established in innovative sectors (renewable energy production, hydrogen, construction, 3D printer districts, recovery and innovative waste transformation and much more). It is an explosion of creativity, ingenuity and pragmatism that will lead the entire region to complete decarbonisation in 2050 and that has already created more than 20,000 new jobs. Taranto has the opportunity to become the Italian and South pilot center to participate in this revolution that the Tarantos have already begun to build with the landscapes, history and beauty of their land. Just a small example, by mentioning a local development project called " green road " (and its stepson " blue road "), carried out by a LAG is therefore, partly public and partly private - that combines the defense and promotion of the territory ensuring economic development and relapses, which I have visited personally and where we see the difference between the polluting industry, on the one hand, and the revaluation of the farms, restaurants, tourism and small-medium enterprises, on the other. We should talk about this today: long-term visions and projects for a different future for young people. A gigantic manifesto appeared in the city, signed by the committee "Genitori di Taranto," in which there was a cubit writing on the gloomy background of the megaindustry: The children of Taranto want to live. Today that manifesto is camping, as well as in Taranto, also in front of the headquarters of the Puglia Region, in Bari, and it is a cry for help towards the deaf institutions of this country. With this umpteenth decree saves ILVA and kills Taranto confirmed to those parents who, for this Government, in the scale of values in the first place there is no future of that place. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u22	Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u23	Mr President, I will not go into technical matters, because I fully agree - and I will not repeat - with what my colleague Mr Amidei and other senators have already said. Instead, I take the floor to draw the attention of the Senate, but above all of the Government, to the issues of industrial policy that - in my opinion - are missing in this country. As a milk producer and so on, I have experienced the systematic transfer of the agro-food processing industry to foreign multinationals, with complications that have occurred over time also at the level of our economy. Then the problem arises - I heard it first from the colleague of the 5 Star Movement - regarding the relationship between environment and health and between environment and economy, and how one can have a correct relationship that safeguards some specific characteristics of our country's production. In this sense, I would not want, apart from the criticisms made - in some cases more than just - that, even as far as steel production is concerned, we should leave the market completely, becoming once again, even in this sector, succubis of external productions, which certainly cannot do the good of our country. In fact, I often and willingly hear about the opportunity and need to defend the workers of this or that sector. However, I would like those who say this to act accordingly. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] On the contrary, when companies are in crisis, there is a demand for investment of a certain type that rightly seeks to safeguard the economy of the families involved, but often and willingly interventions of this type do not solve the problem; on the contrary, they put everything on the carriage of so-called subsidiarity - which subsidiarity is not, but simply a substantial waste of public money - without solving the problem. I wouldn't want that to happen to Taranto. The rapporteur also highlighted the delays - rightly, she justified all this, because it is her role - but nine are the decrees-laws, and we would like this to be the last and lead to the solution of the problem. As other governments of our competing countries do, the Government should make a speech of persuasion because, as far as possible and the economicity of the intervention, the Italian intervention must be at least persuasive - if we can say so - in compliance with the rules of free competition that are at the basis of everything. However, I have noticed the behaviour of our friends and competitors in the European countries: when some strategic sectors took risks, they intervened, of course, in compliance with the laws. And I would like this to be done also with regard to the ILVA affair. I would like to make a final mention of the report which the vice-president of the Supreme Council of the Legnini judiciary has very well highlighted in his speech on some of the behavior of the judiciary in relation to the economic sector: combining efficiency, respect for health and the environment should also have a particular attention from the judiciary and a gradual intervention because, when the train stops, often and gladly does not start again. That is why I call on everyone to discuss these issues and not others, who often and willingly take the scene of this Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and AL-A Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u24	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u25	Mr President, I believe that the rapporteurs have made clear, with a great deal of detail, why we are going to vote in favour of this ninth ILVA decree-law. At the very beginning of my speech, I would like to take note of what my colleague, Gianni Girotto, said a moment ago about the 5 Star Movement. We are, however, exactly the opposite in terms of the vision of European and Italian industrial reality, as well as the assessment of what it means not only to make a global economy, but to proceed with the attention we know - also following the COP21 in Paris - to the environmental issue, whether the fact is that it respects China, Europe and Italy. I think it is honest to say first of all that Italy is not only the second European manufacture not only in terms of importance and volumes, but also in relation to steel and steel, in particular with the beauty of 33 billion annual production quantified in 2015. It is not a sector that we can afford to cancel from evening to morning, with very random hypotheses, such as those listed. Not only that, but with respect to the entire European sector, which amounts to 166 billion euros, we have 40 production sites and the most important, despite the strong crisis that has experienced in recent years, is precisely that of Taranto. And we arrive at lupus in fabula, as the Latins would have said, that is to say, the issue of the factories in Taranto. In this case, too, I think it must be said that, contrary to what we have heard here, the production of the Taranto plant, despite the fact that only three blast furnaces are active - one of which, blast furnace 1, has been completely refurbished - is close to 5 million tonnes, with 13,000 tonnes per day. We are not the initial hypothesis of 17,000 tons a day, but we all remember the fatal accident in 2015, which resulted in an important stop of the plants and, overall, the decrease of generalized production in Europe. In the light of all this, honestly, although I consider myself a convinced environmentalist, I have some difficulty in understanding how it can be stated that this site - an industrial structure of such value, of such national strategic level, even before European - can be quietly closed and transformed into another. And I find it difficult to understand how this can happen with the declared ease of intervention. I believe instead, in a deeply convinced way, in the challenge that we wanted to undertake, from the political point of view, for the first time in the history of our country, well aware of what we were doing, in 2012 and, above all, in 2013, through interventions that, due to their gravity and relevance, were a watershed within the framework of the relationship between enterprise and state. And we did this in a convincing way because - as was said - we had to heal the ILVA and Taranto, and it is certainly not a little thing. We wanted to start a job and we are at the ninth decree-law, as my colleagues Laniece and Fabbri have said very well. It should therefore be pointed out that, in reality, we are working so that the history of tarantino, which is made up of work and of strategic and industrial importance, may not die because of the neglect and the unheard-of exploitation of men and means, without respect for the most elementary safeguards for the health of workers and citizens of Taranto and surroundings, which lasted too long, for decades, not only - and we know - but above all, in the last period, with Riva. Well, Taranto could have risked, without these interventions, to close his production history in the worst possible way. What has been accomplished was, therefore, an unprecedented challenge - as has been said - a battle that we do not hide from being very hard, that has not been won and has not yet ended and has seen us proceed on several fronts, one of which - for us fundamental - is the complete recovery of the sums seized, for damage, to the Riva family. Therefore, we are not only convinced that the 300 to which we add EUR 800 million will have to return completely to the state's coffers, but we are sure that this will happen quickly enough to allow us to communicate it within this Senate. This ninth decree-law is ironic and Europe's investigations are referred to for hypothetical state aid. Let us read Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I think we should stop, in here, even if we have different political views, assuming masochistic attitudes of this nature. I do not see what hidden joy there can be in considering these funds in this way, which are being invested today. Moreover, for the first EUR 300 million, a 3% spread is foreseen in addition to the Euribor rate. We cannot say that it will be an advantage on behalf of the State, but not even an advantage for the company, because it is a market rate. Therefore, in that case the Government has been well protected to avoid that under no circumstances can these be considered state aid, even more so with reference to the 800 million euros to be invested in two years (of which 600 million to be committed all in 2016) in the environmental and safety of the plants. Therefore, I really do not think I understand the objective reasons (and not even those subjective ones that can be motivated by a political opposition) of hoping that an initiative of this kind, which sees such a significant commitment of the country, can fail. I believe that the EUR 600 million that we are going to spend this year is the best, the most convinced and the most determined of the answers for those who have no hope of shipwreck and suspicion of possible European sanctions. Indeed, these 600 million euros fully respond, not only to the Diktat who pollutes pays, but precisely to the risk of a further sanction for the indecent way in which that territory was mistreated. The decree-law in question also concerns the protection of jobs, which are not few. The economic protection covers a total of almost 14,000 direct workers in the Tarantino, around 6,000 indirect workers and thousands of suppliers. I would like to focus on a rule contained in the Decree-Law, which underlines the importance of the work done by small and medium-sized enterprises in favour of the ILVA client, thereby wanting the State - I believe that this too is an element to be considered - to maintain the commitment to respond to the suppliers who depend on this work. I am also thinking of the 700 workers (of the 1,635 total) in Cornigliano, Genoa, and the 70 workers in Patrica, in the province of Pordenone, who also await with interest the conversion of the decree-law under consideration. No one, using an expression that is dear to us, must remain behind and no one must be harmed by the existence of the ILVA mark, which has been submitted to the extraordinary Commissariat and which we are now quick to begin a possible transfer to third parties with constraints and priority principles in the interventions that deserve to be synthetically known and remembered. First of all, we have already said that Commissioners are allowed to borrow funds to convert contaminated sites in Taranto and Statte. Just with reference to the site of Statte, last year we approved in the Senate the allocation of 10 million euros for the reclamation, the removal and the management of radioactive waste of great danger. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, is my time already over? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, Senator Puppato, I invite you to conclude. I'm gonna finish. I would just like to point out that this decree-law contains two rules which I consider to be particularly important for environmental aspects. First of all, there is the desire to feed gas plants (therefore, with clean energy, much less polluting and fully in line with the Paris agreements) rather than using coal as the main source of energy. Moreover, thanks to the intervention of the Health Commission, the setting of emissive limits and the guarantees offered by the appropriate monitoring ensure that the emissions of chimneys will be reduced until they are cancelled. All this can be achieved through an industrial conversion that sees the adoption of best practices, through a renewed relationship of trust between citizens and the State, which is the first of our duties here. [[Applause from Senator Tomaselli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u26	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u27	Mr President, ILVA, Italy's most important industrial group, is in danger of collapse due to the weight and number of workers (direct workers and employers). After promising a productive revival in great style at the beginning of 2015, the Government had to deal with reality: on the horizon you can't see possible buyers; the hypothesis of an Italian cordata, ready to go on the field, on the model of what has been done with Alitalia, remains for now matter from behind the scenes, and the clash with Europe with German leadership risks to complicate the game even more, putting on its knees a fundamental piece of Italian industry. It is on Wednesday 20 January that the European Commissioner for Competition, Margrethe Vestager, opened a formal investigation into ILVA for State aid. The Undersecretary has already explained to us that the Italian Government will be able to demonstrate that it is not founded the suspicion that it has subsidized the steel group with public money (about 2 billion euros) instead of investing in the organization of the factory with the best technologies available to reduce polluting emissions. The Commission's decision, however, could serve as a warning to the Italian Executive against further public funding of the largest full-cycle steel plant in Europe, unless money is invested solely and exclusively in environmental rehabilitation, which is unlikely given the suffering situation. The closure of the plant in Taranto, which has halved production and has already actually fallen from the Olympus of the large steel groups, would be the joy of its European competitors. The profit margins of the main continental players are reduced by structural overcapacity in steel production. Among other things, the threat of flooding low-cost Chinese products is underway. The proximity of European competitors is all the more insidious if one thinks that government attempts to find a new owner have so far given disappointing results. In the last month the President of the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, Claudio Costamagna, has probed some potentially interested companies. Press indiscretions indicate in Arcelor Mittal, the Indian steel giant, the most accredited buyer, but it is difficult to understand what interest today among competitors a company that in the past no one had wanted. Then there is the property knot. There has not yet been explained how the Government, which is not the owner, can sell it by removing the Riva which, despite the police station, remains the owners of the shares. Without a landlord, no logical investments can be made, no serious sales negotiations. Among other things, the court in Bellinzona - unfortunately for the Government - rejected the request for lack of legal premises, i.e. a final conviction or the minimum safeguard of the right to property of the suspect. In order to save the production and the more than 15,000 jobs of the group and its induced, the idea of converting part of the plants to the use of the iron preduct is becoming widespread, as speculation and exhortation. With the pre-reduced, the process is certainly less polluting. It is used in the Middle East, where natural gas abounds, and in some American and European siderurgies, however it is complementary to other heavier types of production and alone would not be able to replace the entire tarantino plant, to which it should reach gas in quantity. In September last year, moreover, the Italian imports have exceeded for the first time the domestic production (9.5 million tons versus 7.7). At what price? The cost of Chinese products is sometimes even lower than the cost of scrap, according to some operators. But what is most surprising in this story is the high number of accidents, often fatal, that have occurred lately. What was most astonishing was the silence of the new workers. I heard from a new employee in coking plants who preferred a job to a tumor: So much for the tumor, if it comes to you, it comes later, and anyway, if you live here, you take it even if you don't work. This, therefore, requires a reflection also on the health issue; in all these months it seems to remain in a corner, no matter how mercilessly it was photographed by the inquiry "Sentieri". We record an increase in mortality of 14% for men, and 8% for women. For men in particular, there is an increase of 14 percent for all cancers and 419 percent for pleural mesotheliomas. For women, we are at 211 percent for pleural mesotheliomas and for children there is an increase of 20 percent of mortality in the first year of life compared to the Apulian average, which becomes 30-50 percent for the contraction of diseases of perinatal origin that occur beyond the first year of life. I believe that the commonplace of marriage to health and work has now proved to be a largely ineffective and harmful approach. However, one thing is clear for at least a couple of years now: that the factory remains in its place, that it is sold to an Italian cordata or to some Asian multinational on the rise, Taranto still has to get out of the "steel monoculture" that in the last half century has done nothing but feed itself from its own bowels. But how does it really come out, beyond the easy slogans? That is the answer we should give the country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u28	Mr President, I do not know whether some of my colleagues who peek at figures on tonnes of steel really believe in the future of Ilva even today. What I know is that every tonne of steel corresponds to the same tons of waste; waste which, thanks to Decree-Law No. 1 of 2015, can travel throughout Italy without the disposal tests and, therefore, with very serious safety problems in view of the radioactivity of the same. We are talking about jobs, when we know that they have been halved in recent years. We are still talking about the fanciful billions of Riva, when we are still talking, in 2016, about ILVA decree, precisely because the Swiss court denied the green light to those Riva capitals that last year all gave us as already pocketed. I believe that the ILVA is absolutely the emblem of the failure of this legislature, because it sums up in the process of these nine, almost ten, decree-laws (because something has been put into some other measure) a series of fundamental data. First of all, we start with a denial of the division of powers, because we enter with tense leg in the decisions of the judiciary with the first decree-law n. 207 of 2012. There is a rejection of the European provisions, because we have the ruling of the European Court of Justice on the head, with a conviction of 2011, for not having issued environmental permits for emissions. Again, in 2013, new infringement procedures, with a reasoned opinion, for non-compliance with Directives 2008/1 and 2010/75, also for emissions. No matter what the Undersecretary or colleagues in this House say, there is also a real risk of opening up a new infringement procedure for State aid, because it would appear that we are keeping a company alive that has no chance of moving on with its legs. Among other things, there is a lack of an industrial plan, and we do not know whether and how we will be competitive in the production of this steel, compared to Korea for example. There was an obligation of the commissioners, but this industrial plan has never been done. There is also a rejection of certain articles of the Constitution, because health is not safeguarded, the environment is not safeguarded and not even Article 24 of the Constitution, as Mr Moronese pointed out, which gives the right to all citizens to resort by civil means to those who wrong them. There is no respect for safety at work, because accidents, serious and less serious, are now on the agenda and there is certainly no respect for authorization procedures. Against all this, we, from 2012 to 2016, record a complete failure, a result equal to zero, because, if anything, emissions have dropped, they have dropped in relation to the decrease of production. Therefore, we are in the situation of selling, with a contract that is published before the debate in Parliament of the decree-law, not only of the ILVA complex, but of all the complexes that are in Italy. That's why we have the disorders in Genoa-Cornigliano, because there is no certainty of this sale; it is a sale in the dark and we do not know if who will buy will proceed to a break between bad and good companies to sell then our best companies to our competitors. Then there are some more punctual reflections. In article 1, paragraph 7, extending the deadline of the Plan and therefore the measures of the AIA, in practice the forecasts of the measures of 80% are eliminated, those on which we spent so much last year talking about the weight and the measure. But what we do not realize is that the achievement of this 80%, which was to be verified for July of this year, is subject to a verification obligation that comes from the review decree, the one that comes from the European Court, No. 547 of 2012, which provides quarterly audits and reports of the control bodies. These checks took place, because ISPRA and ARPA Puglia checked this summer and their checks led to several complaints of violation to the competent authorities, reports of crime and also proposals for warnings, which have been transposed by the authorities. But this measure renders this action null and void, thereby frustrating the control of these bodies. Moreover, there is clearly a time mismatch between the expiry of the authorisation (end of 2015) and the fulfilment of the conditions that gave value to the authorisation itself, creating a procedural absurdity. Let's see then how the procedure for the integrated environmental authorization has been completely distorted: the authorization of the Plan also applies as a modification to the AIA and, moving over time the authorization, we find ourselves in another absurd, that is to say that on 8 March 2016 we should have realized, always for a European obligation, the famous BAT (best available technique), and certainly, given that the AIA authorization will be realized - perhaps, if it will be - in June 2017, the date of 8 March 2016 will not be respected. Mr President, the Plan can also be amended by decree, and the Committee on Inquiry into Environmental Authorisation and the support of the territorially competent bodies will also be jumping. Another fundamental point is the extension to the Commissioners of exemption from civil liability, what I said at the beginning of my speech, giving a towel on Article 24 of the Constitution and making very uncertain the obligations and doubts the applications of the future sanctioning regime. What may be the future of Taranto we have not even been able to assess, because it has given itself, as a blackmail, the only possibility of the development of this industry, which has taken away the opportunity to develop other activities and other types of economies. We therefore want a Taranto for tarantinos, which is no longer with the ILVA plant! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u29	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with yet another decree-law of the Government, but above all with the infinite decree-law on Ilva: nothing has been resolved with the precedents, and nothing urgent will be resolved with this decree. The central element is the sale of ILVA Group companies, which have been in extraordinary administration for a year. With this decree we are witnessing a complete change of strategy by the Government. At the end of 2014, in fact, it was expected to set up a new company that should have acquired ownership and management. We note that this has proved to be a failure strategy and that, just over a year after that measure, the only solution that has been found is that of the sale, modulated according to the offers that will come: rent of branches of industry, partial sale, total sale. This is a unclear, smoky plan, which adds uncertainty to an industrial situation that a year of extraordinary administration has certainly not managed to improve, since between 2014 and 2015 production collapsed from 6.2 to 4.9 tons of steel. In order to facilitate the sale, the Government, in addition to providing that the sale takes place by the end of June, allocates 300 million euros to the company in the form of a loan to facilitate the transition phase (money that will then have to return with the interests who will take over the company). The purpose of the operation is evidently to preserve the operational continuity of the company complexes of the companies in extraordinary administration with appropriate guarantees of maintenance of adequate occupational levels, to develop the relative steel production in Italy and to allow the implementation of the activities of environmental and health protection. It is a good intention, of course, but they are confronted with reality and with the consequences of what has already been done. It seems quite clear that the ILVA steel pole is a site that could still be attractive from an industrial point of view, also having a priceless logistic position. Equally evident is the inability with which the Government has faced the crisis of the steel plant. In fact, little more than a year has passed since - it was December 17, 2014 - Prime Minister Matteo Renzi decided to intervene directly on the ILVA of Taranto. After a few days came the seventh ILVA-saving decree-law. ILVA has become a company of national strategic interest and has passed into extraordinary administration, with three commissioners in charge of bringing the company towards environmental recovery and return to production and profit. Within a year, none of these results were obtained, because at the base of the resources allocated there was about one billion euros seized by Riva following criminal proceedings not yet reached judgment, but the Swiss federal court opposed the use of the money of the Riva family because, in fact, the Italian criminal sentences are not yet definitive. The rule of law still prevails in Switzerland. However, those who wanted to expropriate before a final judgment are not the only resources that have failed: the other resources made available are also at risk; I am referring both to the 300 million foreseen by the decree-law under consideration, and to the 800 million destined by the law of stability to the environmental and health recovery of the ILVA, which ended up under the lens of Brussels for suspected state aid. The European Union has opened an investigation into whether a company is being set up through taxpayers' money and wants to check whether this can be an illegal advantage that distorts competition. It has to be said that the European steel industry is hit by over-production and massive Chinese imports, which are kneeling several producers, such as the British ones. That is why the European Union is inflexible in rejecting public aid. If, however, the Italian Government can demonstrate that public funding is aimed at environmental reclamation and not production, then it will be considered lawful. In fact, however, with the decree-law under consideration, the Government is allocating money, albeit in the form of a loan, in order to facilitate the transfer of a company that is not its property, which not only suggests that the problems with the European Union will not be solved easily, but squeals with the principles of the rule of law. The Government has decided, in the case of ILVA, that ownership is no longer a right. With regard to the tendency of this Government to respect the laws only if it is convenient, how can one silence what other colleagues have already highlighted as a heavy profile of unconstitutionality? How can one think of excluding by law all civil and criminal liability of commissioners? How can it be expected that, contrary to the provisions of the law, no cause of compensation is possible for those who may have suffered damage from ILVA's activity? I would also like to stress one point that is particularly close to my heart. It is now clear, without any doubt, that over the years ILVA's activity has been immensely harmful to those who worked there and to all the citizens who have had the misfortune to live near the factories. There is, of course, environmental reclamation. I hope that this reclamation and the controls for the future activity will be done with the utmost awareness and with every attention, because it is true that the industrial recovery of the plants is important for the territory and for Italy; it is true that our country cannot give up its strategic position in the production of steel; but it is equally true that the health and life of people and citizens must be a priority value compared to any other consideration. I want to conclude, Mr President, with my own reflection. The rescue of the ILVA had to be part of a serious and effective industrial plan, with a strategic vision and following the lines of a real industrial policy. Once again, another urgent decree-law has been preferred, which crystallizes the dramatic situation in which the company is placed until someone is found who intends to acquire it. This is a serious fact which we publicly denounce in this House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u31	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u32	Mr President, the previous speakers have focused on the legislative aspects of this measure, but I do not think that there is any general political debate on the need not to subject Italian taxpayers. I love to remember what Margaret Thatcher often said: there is no public money, but that of taxpayers. The latter are not an abstract entity, they are those millions of citizens who in November and May go to pay the IRPEF, ILOR or whatever. On this occasion I would like to remind the senators of the affair Montedison: the State sold to Raul Gardini a part of the state chemistry (sold it for the truth, giving it at the time about 2,000 billion facilities between contributory and tax reliefs); when Gardini began to be an entrepreneur trying to cut the dry branches of state chemistry, which operated, like all things managed and assumed by the State, under a monopoly regime and, therefore, in open denial of all principles, including that of common sense, as well as the rules of the enterprise, the State, after five or six years, bought back from Gardini the same shares at twice the selling price. The mother of all the bribes was born from this operation; well known, from Cusani onwards, as those bribes were used to finance the party system. I had asked a question about the specific issue of Ilva to the then Minister Corrado Clini in the Chamber of Deputies, stating that sooner or later the State would intervene to clean up those areas, in the presence of an immanent danger for the people of Taranto and those areas and running to the rescue of the entrepreneur. He strongly denied this possibility, except then he himself incurs the judicial stumbling blocks, because he accused of having stolen 1 million euros from an environmental redevelopment project that Italy went to do in the tortured Iraq. So I would like to ask, by making a great force to my guaranteeing soul: how many months or years from now will we come to discover that yet another operation to lose this state will have forested political parties or personalities? You see, what is missing in this debate is not what the State is going to give; what is wrong, which is cryptogenetic in relation to the misrepresentation of taxpayers' money, is the fact that we are helping a private company that has declared 10 billion profits and claimed to have made 6 billion investments. To clean up those areas it takes two billion, just to redo the blast furnace 2 or 3: I say so much to realize that the 300 million we make available is the equivalent of a pack of cigarettes in the tobacco store. We undertake, by virtue of the protection of public health, to expropriate a company in which profits have been privatised and to advertise losses, as is the custom of statism (i.e. the state entrepreneur, who claims to manage without any criteria of economicity and productivity), and we go to invest public money (the taxpayers' money) to go to provide for a first clean-up. We know very well that the 300 million, compared with some billions that are required to modernise, set up and standardise the company, will be paid by the treasury in the near future. He then smiled at the question of the state's assurances to the famous commissioners that they should not carry out their task. But, if the money is public, also the derisibility is assured, because you will find one hundred experts of variant or one hundred specious scientific, epidemiological and toxicological topics, that will make the State Pantalone put his hand in his pocket and go to make those investments that the Riva family did not want to make, pocketing the 10 billion profits. True, we have foreclosed about one billion euros to the Riva family, but these will certainly not be enough: I am perhaps the fifth or sixth part of what is needed; and to do, gracefully, what? In order to get a factory that produces a steel that is not competitive, for a very simple reason: because steel requires energy. Since we are the people who have said no to nuclear power, and because we are the people who fill their mouths with alternative energies, we know that the cost of the kilowatt-hour who will use ILVA, under the aegis of the State under the aegis of the private sector, will entail a cost for steel that is out of the market. Someone will tell me that there are hundreds and thousands of employees, that there are families. Excuse me, but do we want to end up like Bagnoli? If we had retired 5,000 employees we have in Bagnoli leaving them also a good exit, we would not have consumed even the fifth part of what in twenty-five years we have invested in alleged or true Bonifiches that were done in Bagnoli. Instead, we supported with social shock absorbers the 5,000 employees who would then have to provide for the reclamation, as if an environmental reclamation of that type required nothing more than a simple workforce, that is to say complex processes from the technological point of view and highly qualified personnel. Whatever the outcome of this decree-law, it is good then that each one of us, not because I say so, but because the logic and also the history of similar events that have already occurred in our evil country, know that we are throwing 300 million out of the window. If we had given them to the food banks to support the needy, we would have done a certainly more charitable and certainly more appropriate work. So go ahead with the statism. The government's demi-vierges are liberal one day and statist the other day, and time is an opinion. Come on. [[Applause from the AL-A Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u34	Mr President, the decree-law that we are going to convert is not the solution to the problems of the ILVA Group and the Italian steel industry, but it allows this, which is not the largest Italian industrial group, as has been said, but the largest Italian steel group, to gain the time needed to deal with this issue and once again resolve it. At this moment ILVA is losing money; it lost them in 2015 and lost them even earlier. ILVA is in the middle of a costly investment cycle that aims to environmentalize the production process and to update the plant equipment especially of the plant in Taranto. In the last two and a half years ILVA has followed a rugged path marked by considerable uncertainties from the pilot. I don't make history of it for the love of resurrecting the past, but to find a solution for the future, if history can sometimes be a teacher of life. At first it was the Commission, with the former environmental decree on ILVA: Commissioner Enrico Bondi made an industrial plan that was intended to finance the environmental plan. The industrial plan was based on a radical technological innovation, i.e. the transition from cokising coal to treating iron ore in the high furnace cycle, to partial pre-reduction using gas, which would have a structurally lower environmental impact than traditional coking plant technology. That plan was set aside because Commissioner Bondi was not reappointed. Commissioner Gnudi was given the task of selling ILVA immediately, in the belief that there could be someone ready to buy it, so much so that Gnudi did not make any industrial plan, wisely saying that whoever came after would do it, placed as a matter of fact essential the implementation of the AIA, the integrated environmental authorisation. The result, as you know, is that no one has come forward to buy ILVA, for so many reasons that it would be too long to rebuild now, but that we can do whenever we want. So it has happened that, after a few months, during which the losses have certainly not diminished - the real losses and not the accounting ones: just go and see the difference between the closings of the end of the month and the increase of the debt - you have arrived to the extraordinary administration, that is the admission of the economic non-sustainability of the management. The extraordinary administration then gave itself an industrial plan. It is not true that ILVA does not have an industrial plan; it has an industrial plan supported by Boston Consulting, based on the continuation of production according to traditional technologies and the implementation of the AIA. This plan involves a load of very important investments and in order to stand it needs a growing market; it needs a demand that pulls, because in that case Taranto can go to the maximum of its potential and bring back the accounts. In fact, as you know, the primary steel industry has high fixed costs; it is not a fault, it is a fact. Well, some have noticed that this could not stand because the world steel market has long been in recession. You do not have to look only at the economy as a whole; steel demand was in recession and still is. There are countries that have a colossal production capacity, such as China - which is worth about half of the world's production capacity - which has an extraordinary excess of production capacity; Europe, which is an ever significant steel power, has an excess of production capacity per cent less significant than the Chinese one, but quite remarkable. Under these conditions, the ILVA industrial plan does not stand. Precisely for this reason there was the awareness from the commissioners that led to the design of an industrial alternative, which also received the stamp of Boston Consulting. Consultants never deny a stamp to anyone. This different plan aims to make the production process more flexible in Taranto, so that it can navigate in the stormy seas of the crisis, adapting the supply to the demand of the moment. To do this it is necessary not to reconstitute the blast furnace 5, which alone is worth at least half of the production capacity of Taranto, but to install in its place - first one and then another - two electric furnaces of considerable power, to which to tie continuous flows at high speed. Forgive me for talking about technical issues, but I believe that if we are going to Europe, we must talk about serious things and not about slogans: we are not going anywhere with slogans. Alongside these plants, the idea of pre-reduce iron ore, certainly not for 100% of production - which is a hypothetical goal, of a distant future - must be recovered, but to a percentage that can go from 20 to 50 percent, gradually. I remember that prereduction is a technology made in Italy: the company Tenova, of the Techint Group, controlled by the Rocca family, makes it in alliance with another large plant company, named Danieli. In order to carry out such a project, an adequate capital envelope is needed, which can be carried in part by the public hand - i.e. by the Deposit and Loan Fund - partly by the banks and partly by industrial players interested in this proposal. The private steel industry in the North can use the pre-reduced, in conjunction with the scrap, because it can be convenient and, therefore, we must find a way of involving it in this process. Other large steel producers, in the flat rolled products sector, such as Arvedi, can be included in the lot. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u35	Please, Senator Mucchetti (PD). Above all, if you have a new industrial idea - and this is a new industrial idea - you can go to Europe without holding your hat in your hand, as our President-in-Office says, but with an idea that goes beyond the mere controversy that this decree-law, with the capital it makes available, constitutes state aid. In fact, if we go to say that we are changing the way we make steel in Italy, putting Italy at the forefront, in Europe and in the world, from the point of view of the environmental impact and of the new technologies, if we say that what we are doing, is doing it also the German company Salzgitter, thus demonstrating that we are not strange dreamers, but we can be one of the industrial avant-gardes in the world, then also the intervention of public money will acquire anything else meaning: it would not be the mouth-to-mouth breathing to a dying person, but a vanguard investment, which fits into the different programs of implementation of COP21 and the decarbonization of the economy. To do this, it takes an agreement with the ENI, in order to have the gas at a price of balance between the interests of the ENI and those of the ILVA. This - believe me - is possible because ENI has many take or pay gas contracts and finding a customer who consumes so much at a reasonable price can also be part of its interests. Therefore, in my opinion we must have the strength to associate with this decree-law, which must certainly be converted into law, a commitment of the Government to the adoption of an industrial policy plan that makes acceptable and prospectively very interesting the process of selling Ilva. Otherwise, with the extraordinary administration we will have only cancelled part of the previous debts, thus making the ILVA a little more attractive, but we will not have saved the Italian steel industry. I will conclude by recalling two issues. When you hear that ArcelorMittal will come forward, you have to remember that in the first nine months of 2016 this company lost 1.2 billion euros (not peanuts) and that it has 16.8 billion debts, which represent four times the Ebitda. It's a lot of stuff, believe me. ArcelorMittal herself is committed - he says to reassure its shareholders - to cutting investment on what she has now. In your opinion, if such a subject acquired Taranto's ILVA, would he do so to develop it or to reduce it to the minimum terms? And so on all the others. In a world that has an excess of production capacity, there are no benefactors, but entrepreneurs who, legitimately from their point of view, want to cut production capacity in excess and there is nothing better than to approach a subject like ILVA, which today has great prospects, but also great difficulties, using the latter to obtain, at little expense, a cut in excess production capacity in the old continent.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u36	[[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u38	Mr President, Mr Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the ninth decree-law issued by the Government to resolve the profound economic and social crisis in which, for years now, the city of Taranto has been pouring out, with its large factory and, in particular, the ILVA pipeline. To tell the truth, the real drama of Europe's largest steel industry began at the hands of another government, always looking a little center-left, when the then Premier, President Prodi, sold it (according to many economists, he provided to sell) for 2,500 billion lire to the Riva family. Until 1995, today's ILVA was the State Italsider, which also employed 25,000 employees in the 1970s. It was privatised by the first government of Romano Prodi with the sale to the Riva group, causing, as we can well remember, not a few polemics because the price paid seemed laughable: it happened with the "turned" of the shares (equal to 100 percent of the capital) at a price of 2,500 billion lire, compared to a total assessment of the society of about 4,000 billion lire, according to the then announced IRI. With the arrival of the Riva the employees were more than halved until the current 11,600, however the Ilva remains the largest source of occupation for tens of thousands of families of Taranto and strongly characterizing the gross domestic product of Puglia. The loss of jobs resulted in the sharpening of the social crisis, increased crime and the depersonalisation of Taranto identity. The ILVA plant is almost twice the size of the square area of the city of Taranto. Its enormous dimensions have affected the relationship between the factory and the city. The original core of the iron and steel industry is the tube factory, which was built in the early 1960s. To build it thousands of olive trees were explanted and almost erased the historical memory of the area close to the Tamburi district that was the collector, through a medieval aqueduct, of the city's water network. Historical dresses that make the pair with the ancient path of the Via Appia, which in part the plant has incorporated. Why these historical facts? Because from these referrals, from these evocations it can be seen the enormous weight that industrialization and in particular the advent of the steel industry, have exercised on Taranto and, specifically, on the Tamburi district, what was once the greenest neighborhood of the city, home of the sanatorium for the tuberculosis patients. Where respiratory pathologies were treated, today we end up suffering from diseases of the bronchopneumonic apparatus. ILVA has changed its profile and destiny to this important piece of town, making it an escape, almost the extension of the factory. Today we are going to discuss the ninth intervention in order to meet the economic-social and health disaster that Taranto continues to live; the ninth decree-law, also because of the eight precedents nobody brought the results hoped for by the Government and hoped for by the citizens of Apulia. Suffice it to point out that we are under infringement by the European Union precisely because of the lack of an environmental plan for the ILVA and, despite this, the Government, within the measure under consideration today, not only indicates the possibility of the slippage of the deadlines for the presentation of the same environmental plan, but even provides the possibility for the future owners of the ILVA to modify the AIA, the integrated environmental authorisation, in relation to the new industrial plan that will be presented. The Group of Conservatives and Reformists, again on this occasion, has worked to try to improve the decree by intervening with detailed proposals, focused on three specific points. First, by providing resources to guarantee income continuity for employees, with extraordinary measures to protect and safeguard the employment levels of workers at the ILVA plant in Taranto, adopting social shock absorbers in derogation and incentives for early retirement. Second, by increasing the resources for the protection of all creditors of Ilva SpA, who provided their services prior to the commissioning phase, allowing the Extraordinary Commissioner to be able to provide the resources, subject to confirmation of the existence of specific conditions (the certainty, the eligibility of the credit and the nature of the applicant). We remember well, in fact, as in the approval of Decree-Law No. 1 of 2015 many creditors were penalized not managing to collect the claims that had been inserted in the competition procedure. Finally, by providing resources under the financial plan presented by the buyer for the relaunch of the Taranto plant, with measures aimed at reducing CO2 emissions, in order to meet the urgent need for a transition to a sustainable and decarbonised economy, based on energy efficiency, renewable energy and intelligent infrastructure, and to transform the production technology of ultra-reduced CO2 emissions steel. This intervention is part of the European Parliament Resolution of 17 December 2014 on the steel sector in the European Union, entitled "Worker protection and industry protection'. Mr President, we would like there not to be a tenth decree-law to be converted on the ILVA case and, specifically, on Taranto; the citizens of the Ionian city have long been waiting for solutions and ours is not a biased opposition, but we cannot honestly see any glimpses of the Government's actions to meet the needs of the Tarantos. Unfortunately we record targeted actions that end up impoverishing the capital city of Magna Grecia and the entire province of Taranto. Last, among the many contradictory measures in this sense, the decision of the Minister of Cultural Heritage to suppress the Archaeological Superintendence of Taranto, established a hundred and nine years ago and which has increased knowledge and developed the protection of the imposing heritage of Messapian, magnagreek, Roman and medieval antiquities of the city of the two seas and of Puglia as a whole. In time it was lost all too much, errors of assessment the government has committed many and constantly. And in addition to the chatter of the total names for future buyers, the Senate, the Italians and the Tarantini do not note decisive actions. Therefore, the Government puts a hand on the conscience and begins to think seriously about the future of this city, the deficits and industrial political problems carried out so far, the future of the Italian steel industry: see the explosive situation of Genoa and what has happened these days. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, representatives of the Government, the story of the Ilva is a story with dramatic implications that engages the last three governments and Parliament since 2012, the last year of the last parliamentary term, and that, from the beginning, the successive Executives have not been able to deal with and resolve effectively. The ILVA issue has brought out all the fragility of our system of controls and interventions on environmental industrial policy issues. The lack of clarity on the roles and competences of the institutional bodies concerned with environmental rehabilitation and redevelopment of the territory of Taranto has established a series of criminal and administrative procedures causing late, messy and ineffective reactions of the Government, which have created uncertainties that concern not only the ILVA of Taranto, but the entire Italian industrial system. The Commission's inertia has, above all, allowed the judiciary to intervene on issues which clearly fall within the remit of the authorities responsible for environmental protection, the health of citizens and Community directives. Since then, the largest iron and steel pole in Italy and the second in Europe has officially become an eco-monster, which has become such for the responsibility of the property: first the State, until 1995, and then the private one. But the ILVA of Taranto has become a symbol of negligence, environmental contempt and violence of public health also for the responsibility and complicity of the territorial authorities (the Municipality, the Province and the Region) and the control bodies that have not monitored: the ASL before and since 2003 the ARPA Puglia. And even today the citizens of Taranto pay for that irresponsibility. With the ILVA approach we believe that the same reliability and credibility of our country towards foreign investors has been put at stake! It is quite clear that the only way to meet the need to protect the environment and the health of the citizens is that of the continuity of business activity, because otherwise Taranto risks becoming a second Bagnoli. The closure of the plant would lead not only to the loss of jobs, but also to the blocking of the implementation of the AIA's requirements, with the polluted site that would still have to be reclaimed, as already happened in Bagnoli, at this point only from public funding. Here this decree-law, the ninth dedicated to the ILVA, aims precisely to ensure the maintenance of the activity of the industrial group. This is what the Lega Nord Group shares, provided that this is done with clear elements, not at the expense of workers' safety and environmental issues. For us it is fundamental the protection of the socio-economic and occupational fabric of the territory of Taranto, with the 14,000 direct employees, with those of the territories of the other plants of the group located in the North, dedicated to cold processing, which alone occupy about 2,500 workers of all the induced related to it that, as has already been mentioned, affects almost all the Provinces of Italy. Only for the transport we speak of 1,000 enterprises, of which half Lombardy and many others of the North. Commissioners of the ILVA Group will have to run: they will have to carry out the procedures for the transfer of business complexes by 30 June 2016. In favor of the extraordinary administration of the ILVA Group is allocated a loan bridge of 300 million euros to accelerate this process, that it will have to guarantee at the same time the continuation of the industrial activity and the occupation, thing that the Government has not yet managed to do, in spite of the previous decree-law, n. 1 of 2015, previewed that by 2015 should be constituted the newco to which it was competed not only the presentation of the industrial plan still unknown, but also the procedure with which it would have had to rent or sell the branch of company. This confirms the poor management of the ternal commissioner appointed by the Renzi Government, with the advice of Andrea Guerra, then escaped to do something else. And not to mention the poor production data of the steel group! The loan of 300 million euros, together with the forecast of the law of stability 2016, that has authorized the commissioner to contract financing for a total amount of up to 800 million euros, assisted by the guarantee of the State, for the sole purpose of the implementation and the realization of the Plan of measures of environmental and health protection of ILVA, whose last term, moreover, is postponed of six months, that is to say to 30 June 2017, would allow to overcome the stalemate coming to create with the recent decision of the Swiss court to block the return to Italy of the 1,2 billion seized to the Riva family. Swiss block of resources very probably linked to the error made by the Government with the previous decree-law, with which it wanted to change the norm that allowed the collection of the money of the seized Riva. I remember it: then, in the hearing, the Greek prosecutor had warned of the problem and hypothesized the stiffening of the Swiss judges in the face of schizophrenia and the traditional variability of Italian norms. And in fact, it was easy and unheard of prophet. We repeat what was the original sin, the initial error on ILVA, that is, the expropriation, with the commissioning of a private company whose economic accounts did not require such drastic measure. You forced the hand with a strategic private company in our country and leaders in Europe and to that error others committed by Renzi have been added. The first one I have already indicated, that of the change of the specific norm that allowed the return of the seized money. Another serious mistake was the replacement, in June 2014, of Commissioner Bondi with Gnudi. Bondi for Renzi was not good because, aware of the enormous problems of the company, it was for an immediate recourse to the extraordinary administration aimed at a revival of the enterprise. But Renzi was for another strategy, that of selling the immediate company, then gone wrong because it went empty. The result? Keeping the commissioning in bonis for a further seven months resulted in the accumulation of losses for several tens of millions and created additional debts to contractors, suppliers and induced. I would like to stress that in the parliamentary process of this decree-law to the House, which was designed to improve a bad text for how it came out of the Council of Ministers, the League Group also highlighted the lack of clarity in the text on the ILVA of Genoa-Cornigliano, characterized by contracts of solidarity. 18.58 (Follow Arrigoni). Little clarity that, in fact, risks creating potential damage for a budget gap of EUR 10 million in the Fund for extraordinary interventions in the Liguria Region, a fund that we hope will be restored as soon as possible to give relief to all those workers who are waiting for clear answers on their future. Even with the contribution of the Lega Nord Group, the criteria for access to the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized suppliers have been simplified, which, because of the Commissariat, are suffering enormous inconveniences (analogues to those of the workers) boasting credits from the ILVA for works not yet welded. On the occasion of Decree-Law No 1 of 2015 as the League, we stated that the then financing of 400 million (now increased to 800) assisted by the State guarantee risked to run into the remarks of Brussels, which could raise the issue of State aid and on 20 January, in fact, on time, the European Commission started a formal investigation to verify whether the intervention complies with the State aid guidelines. Today's tones of the Undersecretary Gozi try to be reassuring, but it was obvious that Brussels endorsed the work for all the measures concerning environmental subsidies to protect public health in order to come back from the original infringement procedure; however, it is clear that in general on the matter hangs the umpteenth sword of Damocles, that we hope it is not stuck in the weak body of the ILVA Group. Meanwhile from yesterday, in Genoa, the workers of the ILVA of Cornigliano have occupied the plant and implemented a road block (a protest that we share) to say no to the sale of the ILVA with a jump in the dark, to defend their income, jobs, the plant and therefore that territory. They rightly accuse the Government of having ripped out the program agreement: significant in this sense the banner with the written: "packa servanda sunt". No programme agreement means no more industrial guarantees, no more investment and, above all, the continuity of employment and income levels. Their request is simple, but significant: they want a negotiation with the Government on the process of sale with Minister Guidi, holder of the Ministry of Economic Development, or with Giuliano Poletti, Minister of Labour, that is with at least one of the signatories of the program agreement. We trust that the Commission will not disappoint their expectations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u40	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u41	Madam President, representatives of the Government, I would like to begin my speech immediately by expressing, on behalf of myself and the Group, full solidarity with the workers of Ilva in Genoa, who are once again demonstrating that they are defending their jobs. [[Applause from Senator Campanella]] and ask the government to comply seriously with the agreements made, but once again this government is allergic to listening to the workers and listens to only one part. There is therefore the full solidarity of the whole party and of many comrades of the Mixed Group. With the Committee of Inquiry into Accidents at Work we went to listen to many workers, their representatives and many associations who paid a very high price to Ilva in Taranto. As far as I am concerned, my thought is that politics should listen, because who better than those who live those tragedies and those critical ones can represent and explain them? However, I am sorry that every time so many people in this House forget to listen to the demands that come from the territories, since - I repeat again - I wonder who better than them can talk about these critical issues. I have acquired some data and I can say that we are talking about a plant of 15 million square meters, that is larger than a city; we are talking about a plant that has 200 kilometers of tracks, 50 kilometers of roads, 190 kilometers of conveyor belts and I could add something else; so we are talking about monstrous realities that this Government should really take into account so that we really understand what we are talking about, but listening, I must say that I do not believe that the Government has really understood this. From all the people we have listened to - one can share or not - it has emerged with force that work and health cannot be in contrast. That city on this issue, with its workers and citizens, has paid and is paying a very high price. We all know that. However, when I see that in this decree-law - I must say this with regret because I believe that the dignity of work should never be underestimated - there is a shift of almost a year of the environmental plan, I think that we do not want to give concrete answers to that territory that, as I said before, has already paid a very high price. I don't want to do numbers. I think that this House has a duty to make commitments because then the numbers leave the time they find. These days, before I did the surgery, I listened to so many of those people that we audited about four months ago. I am not at all happy with what is happening, because what they really want is not emerging. I want to take a ride on the solidarity contracts, too. I have been working in the Commission several times to remind my colleagues of the importance of solidarity contracts. Once again this issue has been underestimated. Solidarity contracts - I would like to remind everyone - would allow workers who take about EUR 1,100 to minimise the damage. With this new working methodology, so-called growing protection contract, I have repeatedly reported that workers still lose from this point of view. To the damage is added the mockery. However, the government, also on this subject, did not give an answer and went on its own way. Now some 4,000 workers, who are subject to solidarity contracts, will be reduced by an additional 10 or 15 percent. We are talking about matters that are neither in heaven nor on earth. First I provided numbers on the plant and on the territory; usually I don't. I have also tried to talk to competent people who understand what we are talking about and have told me that, in order to try to re-launch the plant and restore the site and, therefore, to give concrete answers to the workers, who, as we said before, together with their city, are paying a very high price, would require about 4 billion euros. When I hear about 300 million, with all the respect you have to have for the money, I think that there is nothing to meet the needs of the workers and the territory. I repeat that because the two issues can never be separated. In the decree-law - and it is pretended not to understand - there is a passage that I read to you: the need to ensure adequate employment levels. I wonder, on whose behalf? Employment levels must be guaranteed for all because when you want to break up an industry of that nature - and one who comes from factories tells you this - the system is weakened and nothing can be guaranteed either at the level of employment, or at the level of rehabilitation and, therefore, at the level of respect for and protection of the environment. I think I understand that in the Commission. I think I've listened to this. In ten minutes we cannot report about five hours of hearings we did during which we heard various citizens' associations and, of course, workers' representatives. So in ten minutes I tried to enclose what I thought was most important among the things I heard. I must say that in this decree-law unfortunately I see none of this. I always say that politics should be a serious and important thing, something that gives answers to that troubled world as it is today the world of work (I speak of the world of work, but I could add much more). In seeing once again a decree of urgency that does not give answers, I believe that we are really doing damage once again, not only to that territory and to those workers who have asked us for help. I would like to remind you that many of them were crying when we listened to them: they were people of sixty or sixty-five years, weeping in telling their story and everything that was happening in that territory. Well, I think we must have respect for these facts, respect which, unfortunately, every time I do not know in this House and regret it. So it is clear that politics will lose credibility and that no one will believe it anymore. It is clear that a measure like this, on the part of my party and I think of so many of the Group, will never be able to be voted on, for the things I have said before and especially because they give themselves non-answers. Let's see what is happening in Genoa: the Government, instead of dealing seriously and immediately with the problems that workers raise, run away and we still do not know when the meeting with the Minister will be. I'm actually having a hard time believing that. I conclude by appealing - I do so every time I have the opportunity to speak - to reflect on what is being reported to us from the real world. In here, sometimes more than anyone loses sight of the real world. I always ask you to remember what it is; in order to remember it, you have to listen and, after listening, you have to bring those requests and that cry of sorrow to this House. If we really want to do this, if politics really wants to regain credibility, then it must be said that this decree-law does not meet these demands, on the contrary it fuels even more suspicions. This is the reflection. Let us remember what the workers, associations and institutions in Taranto have told us. We were several senators listening. Let's remember him and take him to these classrooms. Let's make sure everyone listens to that cry of pain, otherwise - as I always say - it's all talk to the wind. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u43	Well, let's re-establish some truths of the facts for a moment, because all the speakers have given different numbers about who works at ILVA and they are all wrong. So let's say it once and for all: 11.263 are the employees of the ILVA while throughout the group there are 14.217 (you had guessed one!). That is the first point. Senator Mirabelli, two decree-laws and a half ago, said that that would be the last decree-law. I told him it wasn't true, and in fact... But I will say more: this will not be the last one either. Then we'll figure out why there's gonna be more. This decree-law is, for now, the highest point of a chain of failures, which comes first and foremost from the dystonia you have. On the one hand you want the globalized economy, the free movement of goods (some speak of a new world order), but on the other hand you talk about the strategicity of an Italian company. Of the two: either you want globalization, and therefore correctly capital goes where it makes the most, or you want protection. Make up your mind. On Ilva you decided to use protection and then complain if the world disagrees with you. Why does the world disagree with you? For two or three reasons. First reason: much more steel is produced in the world than it needs. China has reached 820 million tonnes and produces it at a lower marginal cost. So only a lunatic would think he'd compete with the Chinese plants. Secondly, even the European steel strategy makes it clear that too much is being done about it. Then it is normal that the plants put worse from the plantistic point of view (because the strategy of the European Union looks only at the plant engineering) are on the top list of the plants that must go to die. Why is the former Italsider worse? Because no plant adjustments have ever been made. Recently there has been a rupture of the pipes that bring sea water in the cooling of the plants: water that has spread everywhere; after that, the water evaporates and the salt remains. Since this is a cyclical condition, we already have a widespread corrosion phenomenon that is not very quantifiable. Not to mention the rainfall of caustic soda from the plants: there are pipes that, instead of losing water, lose caustic soda, with the workers who maybe go under there and burn themselves as well. So it's all about dilapidated implants. Another very serious mistake that you have made and that you are making: lie about the destination of money. You said that the bridge loan, the appropriations, the 300 million, would first be covered by the return of capital from Switzerland. Rightly the federal attorney told you something very simple: "But in your opinion, why should I give you someone's money without any motivation? You bring me a sentence and then we'll talk about it. Is there a conviction? No. Then I also wonder how the Budget Commission can accept such a cover, because former President Azzollini has always said that it cannot cover a certain exit with an uncertain income (simple budgetary rule). You have covered the fact that 300 million will be placed by the future buyer (still unseen), and the other 800 million will come from the return of these 1.1 billion that you say stranded in Switzerland, but that I rightly say in Switzerland, because the right is right. But it's not over, because this cover is also interesting, because that entry is uncertain but the exit is certain. Let's move on. ILVA has lost 50 million a month for more than a year. It already had 2.91 billion debts, because that was the request of the bankruptcy court that you stopped, so it means that in order to bring the ILVA back to operating condition you have to put hand to the wallet for 2.91 billion, plus all the suppliers waiting. Who's gonna wear this money? Someone who bought that plant in those conditions? Madness. You also lied that money was being used for environmentalization. Apart from the fact that an environmentally compatible steel plant does not exist (and then we also demonstrate this). In any case, the proof in the Commissioner's report is that the money has been spent on plant adjustments: the coking plant, the conglomerate, the showers and blast furnace 1 (the blast furnace 5 which should become the largest one has not yet been made, even if it had to be done already, and the money to do so is not there). So, why is there no environmentally compatible installation? I've heard of pre-reduced. Let's forget what the pre-reduced is, but it's enough to study what are the chemical reactions that occur inside a blast furnace: there is the reduction of iron oxides. So, whether you do it with carbon from coal or methane carbon, the carbon balance is always the same: total carbon atoms to reduce all oxygen atoms. So that you use methane or that you use carbon, the CO2 emission is the same, and whoever otherwise violates the laws of physics and chemistry of this universe, so at least let's avoid saying these things. I have heard that the predotto should be used in the electric oven: fake, because the electric oven uses electricity otherwise it would be called a gas oven; therefore it uses electricity. Gas is not used in the electric furnace, which would be used in the blast furnace, the big one where you throw iron minerals. Into the electric oven you throw the scraps. Forget about CO2... president. Senator Martelli, you have to finish your speech. MARTELLI (M5S). I'll finish. Why does a plant of this type emit a lot of other substances? Because they are all substances connected with the use of so much temperature and material: for each tonne of cast iron two tons of waste are made; eight million tons of cast iron are 16 million tons of waste, which do not disappear. So - and I shall end really - what we say is that this is a failure of industrial policy because it is not a vision of the future, but of the past. For you people have to stay in the steel mill forever. No, we want a different future, and it will take more than a century to clean up that site and work a lot of people. Do I say it? No. It says nothing less than the English Court of Auditors which, for a situation of that kind, estimates a hundred and seventeen years. Do you want to guarantee employment for three years with this stunt? We say there are one hundred and seven years of work: who is right, you or us? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u45	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the 10th Decree-Law on the ILVA in Taranto and with it the environmental and conversion problems of the plants remain unresolved. With this brief speech, I would like to propose a few issues which I believe to be crucial. I would ask you, Mr President, to be able to deliver the full text of the speech if the time available to me proves insufficient.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u46	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Please continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u47	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). A long list of decree-laws that begins in 2012 and that makes us ask, first of all, serious doubts about the need to address the issue with an emergency measure. Also because now the main opinion on the issue of the former steel production plant and the polluted area adjacent to the production areas seems to have to give it to the European Commission. This opened an in-depth investigation into whether aid was granted by the Government to ILVA; this investigation could lead to an infringement procedure, in which, of course, there would be State aid. For Ilva in these years almost two billion euros have been allocated to the public budget (so, citizens' money), in favor of the activities carried out by a private company. Now it is necessary to understand how many of these have been used for the environmental rehabilitation of the area adjacent to the plant and for the emergency health and how many, instead, for the conversion of the industrial activity. But to the problems that were intended to resolve with the previous decrees-laws, others have been added, because the provisions relating to the commissioning and the attribution of absolutely extraordinary powers to the directors of the ILVA chosen by the government have damaged further interests of private subjects. It is recent news, for example, that a minority shareholder, which has always been excluded from the managerial choices of the steel company, has started a legal procedure to see its interests recognized as ILVA shareholder. And the damage claimed is close to EUR 300 million, which will most likely have to be added, once the judicial process has been completed, to the burdens so far faced by the State to support the ILVA itself. This decree-law worsens matters compared to the existing one because it intervenes once again on the extraordinary administration procedure of the group relative to the transfer of the business complexes. Precisely the reasons for the necessity and urgency of the decree-law contained in the report to the bill of conversion refer, on the one hand, to the acceleration of the procedures for the transfer of the group in extraordinary administration and, on the other hand, to the harmonization of the timing of the Plan of measures and activities of environmental and health protection, with the authorization to the exercise of the enterprise in constancy of seizure, in order to render effective the possibility of exercise by the assignee. But this new procedure takes place, in clear violation of the Constitution, in violation of Article 24 of the Charter, where it provides for exemption from civil liability, ope-laws, from all forms of liability in relation to the principle of operability in legal proceedings of legitimate rights and interests. As we have seen, the legitimate interests are those of shareholders, but also those of creditors, in any way towards the Apulian company. On the substance, the European Commission intends to launch an in-depth investigation into Italian support for ILVA steel works in Taranto. It will examine whether the facilitated access to the financing granted to ILVA in order to modernise the establishment confers an undue advantage on the company, which is precluded by competitors. Obviously, the Commission will also assess the urgency of decontaminating and reclamation of the ILVA site in Taranto, allowing Italy, as we hope, to implement environmental rehabilitation as soon as possible. Madam President, I shall start with the conclusions. For many years, ILVA has dramatically disregarded environmental standards, causing serious problems for the environment and public health in the Taranto area and since 2013 the European Commission has carried out infringement proceedings against Italy for failing to enforce EU environmental legislation with regard to industrial emissions. Moreover, since June 2013 the ILVA has been managed in extraordinary administration by commissioners appointed by the Government, in order to continue the industrial activity, while modernising the plant, in order to adapt it to environmental standards. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Piccoli. SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). In conclusion, in this chaotic context, the Renzi Government now provides for new derogations from the law, first criminal, now civil, to the detriment of many subjects having interests on the ILVA, and yet another decree-law, which completely lacks the objective of solving the problem in a definitive way and indeed does nothing but perturb the horizon for the thousands of families and workers, direct and induced, to whom, finally, our thought goes, here. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caleo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u49	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about ILVA, our thoughts and our reflections fall more frequently - and I also rightly say, given the complexity of the subject - on the site of Taranto, but, from Liguria, I think it is important to reason, as has been done in this decree-law that we are preparing to convert, even on the Genova Cornigliano plant, enhancing its peculiarities, with a view to an overall relaunch of the Italian steel industry and, in particular, of the ILVA business complexes. A complex situation has been tackled several times in recent years and with various measures, trying to introduce rules that combine labour protection, the right to health and environmental protection, without undermining the employment continuity of workers, including by implementing measures to ensure a fair wage base, through public works. The ILVA represents an occupational capacity of about 12,000 units - I use the expression "about," so as not to wrong Senator Martelli - who, if added to the induced, reach about 20,000 units and 75% of the GDP of the province of Taranto, equal to 10% of the GDP of Puglia. Even today, despite the serious economic crisis in the steel industry, ILVA is still one of the largest steel mills in Europe, with millions of tonnes produced annually. We have decided that this country, Taranto, Genoa and all the induced must not give up such an important reality. This is a strategic issue: to abandon Ilva means to abandon the national steel industry, with the consequent serious repercussions on the other productive sectors which would result, first of all that of mechanics. We have also learned from the past that when a productive activity with such high impact goes away, or fails, the rubble remains on the territory for decades, continuing to pollute and cause damage to the environment and the health of the citizens, as the rapporteurs, Senators Fabbri and Laniece have said. Just over two months after the conclusion of the Paris Conference on Climate Change - the famous COP21 - we are even more convinced that the conversion and relaunch of the ILVA are a great opportunity to start that process of decarbonisation of the economy, without sacrificing the development and safeguarding of jobs. For us, the future of ILVA passes from the ability to keep together its productive destiny and its environmental and health recovery. In Italy the green economy goes from being able to turn an industrial patient into a positive example of innovation and sustainability. Colleagues, in my opinion this is the only way that politics has not to disregard the expectations of citizens and workers. The government has put on the table 800 million euros for the reclamation of polluted sites and the improvement of production technologies. I do not seem to recall such public funding for the implementation of an environmental plan. I repeat again: EUR 800 million. I would also remind you of the changes in the criteria for access to the resources of the guarantee fund for ILVA's small and medium-sized creditor companies. These are concrete measures contained within the decree-law that we are about to convert. With regard to the city of Genoa, within the decree-law was transposed, as provided for by the programme agreement of 1999, a provision that provides for the integration of income up to 70 percent for the workers of Cornigliano until 30 September 2016, through an appropriation by the Ministry of Economy and Finance of 1.7 million euros, and the activation of the public utility works financed through the funds intended for the reclamations. These figures are also contained in the measure which, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on. Moreover, even if not contained in the decree-law under consideration, will be made available, as anticipated by the commissioner structure in the supervisory committee of 3 November 2015, between 6 and 8 billion euros to complete the investment on the galvanizing plants, adapting the production lines to the car market and with the possibility to absorb 80-100 workers. With regard to tinned strip, in confirming the willingness to complete the project, the Commissioners also told us that the time will be longer. It will be necessary to follow with great attention and competence... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u50	Colleagues, give Senator Caleo a chance to finish his speech. I invite you to clear the hemicycle.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u51	Mr Caleo (PD). Thank you for your help, Madam President. Paying attention not now, but when it is necessary to follow with competence all the phases of the sale, verifying the industrial plans, the environmental plans and the level of technological innovation that will invest fundamental sectors, working with absolute determination to the maintenance of the current occupational levels, as well has done and is continuing to do the city of Genoa, following this story with great passion and intelligence. This is also hoped for on an agenda, which brings the signature of myself and my fellow Members, Mr Vattuone and Mr Albano, to commit the Government in this direction. Colleagues, experience teaches us that to achieve ambitious goals we also need a more peaceful climate between the parties and that only united - I repeat, only united - the world of work can best guarantee the future to thousands of families. This serenity, which means absolutely no less awareness in achieving the objectives set, also serves the political decision-maker. Here I address the Government; it serves the political decision-maker in order to better undertake the path of industrial recovery of steel in Italy and environmental rehabilitation of Ilva in the cities of Taranto and Genoa. I thank, therefore, the Government, which has confirmed me - but it has never been called into question, as my colleague Maurizio Rossi has urged me to verify - the presence of the Government, Ministers and Subsecretaries competent at the meeting of the Supervisory Committee. To my precise question, the Government has replied however that it will participate in the supervisory committee of 4 February in Rome and this was one of the things that had emerged as annoying in the days and moments today. It's certainly not a surrender, Government. Participating in these tables serves to understand and above all to avoid political exploitations that are already visible on the horizon, on the part of those - people or political groups - faced with complex phenomena - because the phenomenon of ILVA, steel and the environment is complex - who need the courage and vision that only a strong government culture can give, agitate catastrophic scenarios and rhetorical figures proper to the strongest and sterile demagogy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. Mr Caleo (PD). I believe - and I conclude, Madam President - that our objective must be, instead, to put together a proposal that is above all effective and definitive. We leave the chatter to others. [[Applause from the PD Group).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u52	The general debate is closed. The speakers and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u55	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, pursuant to Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, I would ask you not to move on to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u56	Since no one wants to speak, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles. Verification of the statutory number MARTELLI (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on draft law No 2195 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, made by Senator Martelli. It's not approved. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u57	Madam President, in view of the fact that this is a single article, can I explain the various amendments to Article 1? PRESIDENT. - The debate is You can explain all the amendments, because they are amendments to a single article, so there is only one illustration. Exactly. First of all, I would like to explain Amendment 1.2. Paragraph 1 requires the extraordinary commissioner to identify the tenant or the buyer under private negotiation. Our amendment replaces the private negotiation with respect for the principles of transparency and public evidence because, given the large sums of money that we have already paid for the operation saves ILVA, it is unacceptable that the choice of the tenant or buyer takes place according to the rules of private negotiation and it is necessary, instead, that everything takes place in full transparency and advertising. Amendment 1.5 introduces the forecast that the valuation of the market price of the goods will be carried out, as well as by a primary financial institution or, alternatively, by a primary company advisory institution, always designated by the MISE, also takes into account any previous relationships that the subject has had with the ILVA Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Moronese, in this speech you must also illustrate the agenda. So, consider whether you think you're going to dwell on those too. MORONESE (M5S). But my two agendas were accepted in the Commission, so I do not know whether it is necessary to propose them again in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But they have been presented to the House. So, if you think, you can present them and then there will be the Government's opinion for the House. I have reminded you of this, so that you can present amendments and agendas in a single speech. MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, in this case, I reserve the right to make an explanation of vote. It is not a problem, however, since my agenda has been accepted in the Commission. Amendment 1.14 calls for the Commissioners to deposit and publish the industrial and financial plan before providing EUR 300 million, because this has not been done to date. Amendment 1.25, on the other hand, concerns the administrative responsibility of the Commissioners. This decree-law also extends immunity to civil liability. On the other hand, we believe that we must respect the provisions of Legislative Decree 231 of 2001, which concerns the administrative responsibility of legal persons. We believe, in fact, that, above all, this part of the measure constitutes a constitutional violation, as it violates the right to defence provided for in Article 24 of the Constitution. And this is very serious for us. I particularly welcome Amendment No 1.49, because a result has already been achieved in this respect in the House, where it is expected that any amounts confiscated should be used for environmental rehabilitation and reclamation. We believe, however, with this amendment, that it should be further specified that they must be allocated to the estimates of expenditure of the Ministry of the Environment. Amendment 1.59, which was also adhered to by the Government in the Commission, concerns the possibility of making mapping easier for waste production and management and by-products. It is therefore necessary that all strategic plants, primarily the ILVA, produce this mapping of the waste, publishing also its destination, recovery plans and reuse, preferring the disposal to short supply chain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u58	Madam President, I wanted to briefly explain Amendment No 1.16. Decree-Law No 1 of 2015 had substantially extended the deadline for the payment of the e-taxes and payment records by the transport companies and suppliers of the ILVA company, which had credits from the same company. This amendment, in essence, aims to replicate the forecasts of Decree-Law No 1 of 2015 and therefore calls for an extension of the time limits for the payment of these taxes. It is certainly a measure that can help to prevent the failure of these small and medium-sized enterprises, which need to receive their payments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u59	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1.19. We think that the aim of the procedure provided for in the decree-law is to facilitate the sale of the ILVA Group's plants while ensuring the continuation of business activity and environmental protection. This is true, but it is true that we have also had some attention to the companies of the induced one, that they boast many credits to the ILVA company, especially regarding the section of the transport on rubber, whose companies boast a credit to date estimated in approximately 600 million euros. It is money that, in our opinion, should be made available to small entrepreneurs who are part of the induced and who are punctually bouncing all bills that they pay. That is our idea and the amendment can certainly be seen as a positive proposal. [[Applause from Senator Comaroli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u60	Madam President, we have tabled three amendments, of which the first, Amendment 1.80, concerns the protection of ILVA creditors who provided their services prior to the stage of the Commission. As you know, in fact, with the decree-law of 2015 many creditors have been penalized and above all they have not managed to obtain what they owe, being inserted in the competition procedure. The rule provides for the acquisition of debts by the Bank deposits and loans and guarantees all small and medium-sized enterprises which, at the stage immediately prior to the commissioning, ensured the continuity of production of the site, and which were subsequently penalized by the Commissariat. The second amendment that we propose, the 1.81, provides that the government can support, in compliance with national and Community legislation in the sector, the financing of actions aimed at reducing CO2 emissions in order to meet the urgent need for a transition to a sustainable and decarbonised economy based on energy efficiency, renewable energy and smart infrastructure, and the transformation of ultra-reduced CO2 production technology. This intervention, moreover, is part of the European Parliament's resolution of 17 December 2014 on the steel sector and protects workers in industry. The last amendment we proposed, on 1.82, provides that the Government may provide extraordinary funding for the protection and safeguarding of the employment levels of the territories concerned. The rule provides that social shock absorbers may be adopted by way of derogation and incentives for early retirement. We hope that at least this time the Government will be able to welcome our demands instead of proceeding blindly with further decrees-laws.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u61	Madam President, I would like to set out the agenda for G1.7 because I think it is important to stress the following. I consider it important that the Government takes into account the fact that, in the allocation of the 300 million foreseen by the decree-law for the maintenance of employment levels, reference is also made to the workers of the ILVA plant in Patrica, which insists in the territory of the province of Frosinone, for which the mobility procedure has already been activated since 2014, which will expire in June 2016. Therefore, they will be outside before any sale of the site, to which appropriate offers have been made, can be realized. It is therefore a duty because 70 workers and 70 families would no longer have the enjoyment of that social shock absorber.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u62	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u63	I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u64	Madam President, I would ask you to withdraw all the amendments, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u65	Madam President, I would ask you to withdraw the G1.1, G1.2, G1.3 and G1.4 agendas otherwise. I am in favour of the G1.5 agenda. On the agenda, Mr G1.6, I am in favour of a rewording calling for the following words to be replaced in the operative part: 'to activate', with the words: 'to assess the possibility of activating'. In addition, after the words: "environmentally and socially sustainable alternatives," the so-called green jobs are asked to replace the words: "as well as the preparation of measures" with the following: "as well as to evaluate measures". I call on you to accept as a recommendation the agendas of the G1.7 and G1.9. I am voting in favour of the G1.8, G1.10, G1.11, G1.12 and G1.13. On the agenda, Mr G1.14, the opinion was in favour of the following rewording: In the first paragraph of the device the words are asked to be inserted: "to assess the appropriateness of "to" and to replace the words: "to" through "to" to "to" the words: "to" to check the possibility of "to" to "to" the second paragraph, "to" to replace the words: "to" to "to" to "to" to "to" to "to" to evaluate the possibility of "to" to provide "to" to "to" the second paragraph.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u66	Madam President, I would just like to make two points. In the meantime, all agendas are accepted as a recommendation, because on the same subject they have already been accepted as such in the House of Deputies. In addition, on the G1.2 agenda, the Government's opinion is as opposed to that of the rapporteurs, but I would like to point out that this opposition is only due to the fact that this text is ultra-roneous, because, compared to the best available technology (BAT), the emission limits in the atmosphere are already established by the current regulations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u67	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators, up to the words "of the principles of "the". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.2 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. MARTELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u70	MARTELLI (M5S). I have allowed you to vote on the previous amendments, such as Amendment 1.7, in which it was said that the offeror's package, before joining any offer made by the proposer, must be approved. Since you have continued to say that there is a great deal of emphasis here on the Bonifices and the money invested in the Bonifices, then you should have approved Amendment 1.7. Amendment 1.10 says the same: it proposes to delete paragraph 3, because, like others, it also allocates money not to subsidies, but in this case to the payment of debts with suppliers. Then I would like to understand, of all the points of this decree-law, where are the famous money to be allocated to the Bonifiche if every time you are proposed to do this the answer is negative and it is such even when you are told to take away the money that does not go to the Bonifice. Let's see what the game is: to delete paragraph 3 means to divert 300 million from the plant and, if possible, to divert them to the Bonifice. Do we want to do this? If we want to do so, we will vote yes. If not, don't bonify and vote no.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u71	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. STEFANO (Misto-PugliaMiù-Sel). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,15, tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u74	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask the Government whether it is prepared to accept a rewording of Amendment No 1.16 on an agenda, with which we are essentially asking it to commit itself to taking appropriate legislative and financial initiatives to further extend the time limits for paying tributes and records. I would remind you that we are talking about transport companies (small and medium-sized enterprises) supplying ILVA and creditors towards this company, which have not yet been wound up by the extraordinary administration, whose dominus is the Government. I therefore call for a commitment by the Commission to accept a rewording of the amendment on an agenda, which I am prepared to deliver in real time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni, I would point out to you that in this case this is a rule of expenditure, on which the Budget Commission has expressed an opinion against it. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). That is precisely why, Madam President, I rephrase the amendment on an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u77	Mr VICARI, State Secretary for Economic Development. I would like to say to Senator Arrigoni that, as a recommendation, an indication from the House of the possibility of verifying - and not doing - what you are asking for. Therefore, if you turn it into a commitment to the Government to assess and deepen the possibility of derogating and increasing the deadlines, the opinion is in favour. If you are going to ask the government to do this, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u78	Do you accept the government representative's proposal, Senator Arrigoni?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u79	Rather than nothing, it's better. [[Applause]] Businesses certainly need more guarantees, so I accept the reformulation proposed by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u80	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.16 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to amendment 1,17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MARTELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u83	MARTELLI (M5S). Why would we ask you to vote yes to this amendment? We do it just to avoid, after suspending the penal code, suspending the civil code as well. In fact, after having granted all kinds of criminal immunity to Commissioners, sub-commissaries and all those who are functionally delegated by them, you also grant them civil immunity. So, to whom should the Italian citizen be addressed, if he has been wronged or believes that his right has been harmed? Evidently, no one can be approached anymore. Does that sound right to you? Does it seem possible to continue with the most total impunity even from a civil point of view? I don't think so. If you believe in a rule of law, you should vote yes to this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u86	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to endorse this amendment and, of course, the others in my Group, and to stress that it is essential to vote in favour, just as my colleague said in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u87	Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,17, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1,18, tabled by the Senator Council and other senators, until the words "including credits" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.19 and 1.20 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 1.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. MARTELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.22, which is identical to amendment 1.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. NUGNES (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators, identical to amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Stefano and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.24. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.26, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.26, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,27, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators, up to the words 'from 6-bis'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.28 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 1.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. STEFANO (Misto-PugliaMiù-Sel). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.29, tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.30 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Stefano and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.31. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.32, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.32, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.34, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.35, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Pelino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.36, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,37, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,38, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. MARTELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u90	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, with regard to amendment 1,38, let us do a bit of a truth operation. We ask, after the words of paragraph 6-a, that they be as follows: It is, however, an obligation to promote actions of revenge, actions of liability and compensation against those who, even indirectly, have caused environmental and health damage, to delete the others: As well as damage to the ILVA Group and its assets. The following situation could arise: the Riva family is dissatisfied with the sale procedure and considers its assets to be damaged and is therefore suing the Italian State, by virtue of that small piece of paragraph 6. We, therefore, would find ourselves in the absurd situation of having to give the Riva money again. I don't know if you thought about it or not before you wrote this part, but you're now in time to think about it. Do we want to risk having to give more money to the Riva when they should give it to us instead?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u91	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,38, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.39, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MARTELLI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.39, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.40, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. NUGNES (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.40, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,41, tabled by Senator Pelino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,42, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,43, tabled by Senator Pelino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,44, tabled by Senator Pelino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1,45, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u94	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, from the point of view of the earlier draft, we would be willing to withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda that commits the Government to find resources to supplement the funds needed for public utility work, in order not to reduce the total resources to be used on the subject of reclamations and urban redevelopment of the Cornigliano district. Without prejudice to any adjustments, I think it can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u95	I would ask the representative of the Government whether he intends to accept the agenda thus transformed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u96	No, ma'am, you can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u97	Senator Council, what are you going to do at this point? COUNCIL (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,45, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,46, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GIROTTO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,46, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.47, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.47, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1,48, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,48, tabled by Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.49, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.51, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.51, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators, up to the words "paragraphs 7 ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.52 and 1.53 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.54, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.55.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u100	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, as I said in the general debate, this is a point that can put us in further difficulty. We are not only extending the AIA to 30 June 2017, but we are also failing the verification and the obligation to verify 80% of the works. And I repeat that it is an obligation that comes to us from the decree of review of the AIA, n. 547 of 2012. I am therefore afraid that the failure to comply with the obligation of verification through the competent bodies may also be grounds for sanction. Then I would like you to consider this amendment. The previous amendment wanted to remove the extension of the date for the AIA requirements, while amendment 1.55 calls for at least 80% of the Plan to be restored by 31 July 2016. Let us remember that because, when the sanctions come back, I can tell you that I told you. [[Senator Astorre's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u101	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.55, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,56, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Stefano and other senators to vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1,57, tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,58, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,58, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.59.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u104	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, I would like to turn Amendment No 1.59 into an agenda, because it seemed to me to understand that the representative of the Government and the rapporteur had the intention of accepting it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u105	The Government is willing to accept the agenda, with a rewording. We have already accepted this hypothesis in the Commission, with a rewording of the last part of the text in particular.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u106	Mr President, I agree with the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u107	Amendment 1.59 is therefore withdrawn and transformed into an agenda. I call on Senator Moronese to forward to the Presidency the text of the agenda which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. I call on Senator Stefano and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of Amendment 1.60, until the words "Paragraph 8" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.61 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.62.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u110	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, I would like to speak on Amendment 1.62, on which I would like to take a moment of thought. As has already been said, paragraph 8 provides that, in order to modify the Plan, which in practice amounts to modifying the AIA, a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers is sufficient, on a proposal from the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and the Minister of Health. Since modifying this Plan also means modifying the AIA, we are saying that it will be possible to amend the AIA without going through the Commission's Environmental Authorisation Investigation, which is governed by the single environmental text, Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006, and therefore skip the support of the competent local authorities. Given that, probably, I cannot change your mind that this change should have a normal process, I ask you to reflect on the possibility that the change in the Plan - and therefore variation in the AIA - can only take place if more stringent emission limits and faster implementation times are expected than those in force. As the President of the Transport Commission told me that a plan is being drawn up which is certainly less invasive and impactful (but which Parliament is not allowed to analyse), there is no difficulty in voting in favour of this amendment. In case the Government were in favour of its transformation into an agenda (as I have already requested in the Commission), I could consider it as a good predisposition not to change a plan and an AIA with a decree-law if this goes to worsen the emissions and the times of implementation of the AIA. Give me a positive signal to believe in your good intentions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u111	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.62, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.63, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.64, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Stefano and other senators to vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1,65. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,66, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.67, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.68, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Stefano and other senators to vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.69, tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.70, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.71, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.72, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.73, tabled by Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.74, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.75, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.76, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1.77, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.78, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.79, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.80, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. ZIZA (CoR). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.80, tabled by Senator Zizza and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.81, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. ZIZA (CoR). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.81, tabled by Senator Zizza and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.82, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ZIZA (CoR). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.82, tabled by Senator Zizza and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Barozzino, do you insist on voting on agenda G1.1? BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the agenda G1.1, presented by Senator Barozzino and other senators. It's not approved. Senator Stefano, do you insist on voting on agenda G1.2? STEFANO (Misto-PugliaMiù-Sel). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the agenda G1.2 presented by Senator Stephen and other senators. It's not approved. Senator Barozzino, do you insist on voting on agenda G1.3? BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the agenda G1.3 presented by Senator Barozzino and other senators. It's not approved. Senator Barozzino, do you insist on voting on agenda G1.4? BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the agenda G1.4 presented by Senator Barozzino and other senators. It's not approved. The G1.5 agenda was accepted by the Government. Are you still insisting on the vote, Senator Moronese? MORONESE (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put the G1.5 agenda to the vote, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. It's approved. I would like to ask the G1.6 draftsmen if they accept the proposed reformulation. MORONESE (M5S). Yes, Madam President, and we insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I put to the vote the agenda G1.6 (text 2), tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. It's approved. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agendas of the G1.7 G1.8 G1.9 G1.10, G1.11, G1.12 and G1.13 are accepted as a recommendation. I would like to ask the G1.14 draftsmen whether they accept the proposed reformulation. Mr Caleo (PD). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.14 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u114	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, since the agenda resulting from the transformation of one of my amendments was also accepted, I wondered whether this could be voted on, as did the others. PRESIDENT. - The debate is No, because it had already been accepted in the evaluation of the amendments and the debate ended at that stage. MORONESE (M5S). I was wondering if the mechanism could be the same as the other agendas, which were put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u115	That agenda was the result of the transformation of an amendment and, therefore, that was the end of your debate. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Blundo, acting as proposer, asked for an urgent statement on document XXII, No 5: • Establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the problems related to the reconstruction of the territories affected by the seismic events of 6 April 2009 • Establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the problems related to the reconstruction of the territories affected by the seismic events of 6 April 2009 • Establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the problems of the reconstruction of the territories affected by the seismic events of 6 April 2009 Pursuant to Rule 77, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the debate on this request will be placed on the agenda of tomorrow's sitting. The vote will be taken by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u119	[[Brusio.]] Before I give you the floor, however, I call on the senators to leave the Chamber, because otherwise it is difficult for you to speak. Mr Pezzopane (PD). Madam President, the President of Iran, Mr Rouhani, is present in Italy these days. This is undoubtedly an important visit, which is part of the nuclear agreement and which can undoubtedly resolve and address trade issues. However, it should be remembered that in that country, Iran, there is a constant and very serious violation of human rights. I ask, therefore, also in the light of the episode, quite disgusting, which took place today, when, at the request of President Rouhani, the statues of the Capitol were hidden to pay tribute to the visit of the guest, to put as soon as possible on the agenda a motion, presented at my first signature with many other colleagues, to discuss the delicate situation and ask President Rouhani and the ruling class of that country to respect human rights. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u122	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, the dismantling of small and medium-sized enterprises and production sectors in Italy is not new. Italian companies are incorporated by giants and multinationals; they are emptied, chewed and then spit on the ground together with all the workers in it. Today it is the turn of the company Cerpelli Pompe of the Municipality of Seravezza in Tuscany. The US leadership of the Dover Corporation that took over the plant from Finder Pompe SpA in 2013 decided a few days ago to close the centenary plant, with attached and connected all the 30 workers. A thunderbolt to heaven serene, since in the last year and with an accelerated even before Christmas, the same workers had done overtime and worked on public holidays to best respect the orders to be delivered. To date the Dover Corporation has two plants in Italy: one in Seravezza and one in Merate. To cut costs they decided to close their doors in Tuscany complaining about a period of crisis. The Cerpelli Pumps produces for several sectors. The main reference point is that of oil and gas, but the product is versatile and uses can be diversified: desalinations, water extractions, industry in general, water management. So, asking for closure with the excuse of oil decline would obviously be instrumental. The truth is that the national and international financial economic panorama changes continuously, and globalization, combined with the speculation of foreign groups, destroys serious productive tissues, and the small and medium-sized enterprises that are the backbone of our system. This area of Tuscany, over time, has seen a sudden occupational emptying. The negative repercussions are tangible as for the thirty families of the Cerpelli, who risk losing everything: work, dignity and future. The workers of Cerpelli declare that their site is smaller than that of Merate, but more productive and, count to hand, with the best performances of the group both for productivity, and for technical skills. The workers complain about inadequate management, sure that there are slices of the market but that they must be followed with greater determination. That's why the employees mobilized and proclaimed the state of agitation. The 5 Star Movement is with them, with those who fight against this inhuman system. Mr President, I have put a question to the attention of Mr Guidi and Mr Poletti to ask whether I am aware of this yet another case of occupational desertification and what they intend to do to protect these 30 workers, their families and the entire territory of Versilia. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u123	Senator Paglini, undersecretary Pizzetti is present, and I ask you to note the reminder of this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u124	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-565.ana.u125	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 27 January, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.36 p.m.
