ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u4	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 9.54 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.34 a.m. and resumed at 9.54 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u9	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:55 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u13	Madam President, I rise on the question of convening the Conference of Leaders. I have seen that it has been called to include the bill of ratification of the Paris Agreement on a timetable. The matter is very simple.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u14	In fact, at the moment, the Conference has been convened without any specific motivation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u15	BULGARRELLI (M5S). That's not how it turns out. However, it is pointless for you to continue to plan the work of this House without taking into account the work of the Commissions, particularly the Budget Commission (and then later say that it is the fault of the Budget Commission if the work is slowed down). The Commission cannot work without the opinions of the Budget Commission, not because I say so, but because you wanted to put the balance of the budget in the Constitution. It is therefore unnecessary for us to include measures in the timetable of this House without taking into account the timing of the work of the Budget Commission. Of course we can't keep up with everything. PRESIDENT. - The debate is This is generally taken into account at the Conference of Leaders. We'll see what we can do.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u18	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to address a question to the President of the Senate as a potential vicar of the President of the Republic. On Sunday, Scalfari reports in his editorial of a private interview in which the President of the Republic Mattarella would have confided his yes to constitutional reforms. I have waited a few days to submit the question to the President of the Senate, because I would have hoped that the Quirinale would promptly deny this news. That was not the case. I would therefore ask you to represent the situation to the President of the Senate - which I, too, will do at the Conference of Leaders today - in order to check whether the news is reliable and well-founded and to urge a denial by the President of the Republic. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calderoli, as you know, this is not a matter for this House. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). President Grasso has always taken a third position in press conferences and press releases and the same must be done by President Mattarella. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u19	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00555 by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators and 1-00648 by Senator Orellana and other senators on the administration of drugs. I remember that in yesterday's afternoon sitting the motions were presented and the debate took place. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask her to give her an opinion on the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u20	Madam President, on motion 1-00555 I am in favour of points 1 and 2 of the proposal. On point 3) the opinion is in favour of a rewording: the reference to the directorial decree should be deleted. Therefore, the period from the words "depending on what is expected" to the words "n" should be deleted. ) ==References====External links== The rest remains the same. I ask Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri to accept the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u21	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, do you accept the reformulation? D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Yes, Madam President, I accept that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u22	Madam President, on motion 1-00648 I am in favour of point 1 of the proposal. In point 2 (a), the opinion is in favour, provided that the words "by means of nursing staff" are deleted and added, at the end of point (a), the words "between the relevant and competent stakeholders" are added. Point (b) should then be deleted and in point (c) I give a favourable opinion, as for all subsequent points of the operative part. I ask Senator Orellana to accept this rewording of the motion at his first signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u23	Senator Orellana, do you accept this reformulation? Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Madam President, I accept that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u26	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, the debate that took place yesterday, in addition to the explanation of the motions, including the timely and competent one that Mr Orellana made, leads to two reflections. The first reflection is that there is a problem of serious criticality within the paths that guarantee the continuity of care on the side of guaranteeing the administration of drugs in schools. It is a problem that with different nuances, even those that with precise and punctual tones of the actuality presented by my colleague Emilia De Biasi with passionate tone, shows that in fact there is a serious vulnus and that the continuity of care in the school does not find adequate levels of response, guarantee and appropriateness for a basic and basic question that there is represented with reference to a audience of subjects, precisely the children, who are affected, as emerged from the Joint Committee, in particular from three pathologies: diabetes, asthma and epilepsy. It's a problem that needs to be solved. The second reflection is that I have not heard any dissonant voices about the assessment of the various circumstances, about the story, if I may, which has been done by all the speakers - and I also thank those who have expressed their consent by signing my motion - in representing the existence of the problem with different nuances. There is therefore a problem and there is the unanimous will of this House, Mr Undersecretary, to remedy it and to do so with requests that are addressed. I have accepted the rewording that you, the Secretary of State, have asked for; I believe that it is merely formal in nature and does not alter the meaning of my request in substantial terms. I will also vote in favour of Mr Orellana's motion, which has the merit of recovering in point three of his device one of the important aspects that the Government must address with regard to the need to guarantee access to the principals included in the medical devices that allow a faster and more effective detection of glycaemic references. I therefore believe that the acceptance of these motions pacifies the conflict that has arisen and the fracture that has also been highlighted in the debate of the Assembly with Articles 32, 33 and 34 of the Constitution, precisely because the right to health must necessarily find a better and more effective declination of constitutional principles with reference to the right to training and study. I believe that with these assumptions the debate has today allowed to deliver, with the favorable vote that there will be, a commitment that the Government assumes and that it is destined to allow the attainment of the desired results that will be decisive of the critical points highlighted. This is for the benefit of our health, but above all of the rights of the person, the children and their families who recover a condition of trust in the institutions and also of certainty that a child in school is never in a state of abandonment, but also found in the school staff - through that generous vocation to the service that we in the school have always considered fundamental and that we appreciate as a gesture of closeness and availability of the teaching body and not only - a fundamental precondition for achieving the results that we have all identified as necessary to give a definitive answer to the problem. With these premises I announce the favorable vote of the Conservatives and Reformists Group at the two motions. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u29	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, I am voting in favour of both motions. Yesterday I had the opportunity to say that perhaps it would have been better to find a solution for a single motion. For our part, we invite the Undersecretary to intervene. We realize the difficulties: we are saying that we must train the teaching staff (and not) to be nurses and doctors. I put myself in their shoes when they have to inject insulin; I hope and pray the Lord that they do not miss the dosage: between units and "cc" it is enough to miss a unit of measurement that must also give him immunity against the accusation of damage, if not worse. The matter is very serious, perhaps it is rather part of school medicine. Perhaps it is more appropriate for doctors and nurses to cling to the schools, and not just to invest the teaching staff or leave everything to self-administration, as we say in the motions, or to the coming of the parents to those schools concerned (there are over 2,000 who have had these problems). I would like to make one final comment on a point which we have not mentioned, but which I would like to highlight and continue to do until the end of the parliamentary term: the cost. We are in pediatrics: we have an AIFA with the highest drug costs in Europe and family members are unable to treat their children for lack of resources. I spoke yesterday about the bassotti band and I repeat: the AIFA must be calmed down. [[Applause from the AL-A and CoR groups and Senator Zuffada.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u32	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I repeat the vote in favour of the Lega Nord Autonomie Group. There have also been fair objections, which, however, we believe can be overcome. In the course of the discussion, it has been said that there will undoubtedly be a need for a training course, since the teacher is not a health worker. It must certainly remain voluntary on the part of teachers to assume a load of non-ordinary responsibility, which is not their responsibility, but it is absolutely feasible. There may also be a suitable staffing aid, specifically for this type of operation. The basic note, however, is to allow completely normal children - we have seen that the numbers are important: 6,000 boys - and able to take an ordinary school course - prevented only by a pathology that obliges them to follow therapies even during school hours - to be able to do so without problems. The two are not impossible or incompatible. We hope that all Italian children will be allowed to exercise their right to study. We would then have liked there to be some peremptory, operational action in the motion, in the sense that, by not setting a time limit within which the Joint Committee should reach a conclusion of the work - and then give guidelines to all the territories, so that all the Regions will follow certain protocols - we would not want this to be an interesting discussion, to exchange views and to manifest great and important principles that will ultimately remain on the map. Let us hope that, at the end of this debate, the issue will be defined and put into practice. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u35	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, yesterday's debate has allowed us to examine in an important way the issue of the right to study and the health of children with chronic diseases. This is a very delicate and difficult subject. In my experience as a diabetes doctor and a family doctor I am perfectly clear what it means to manage children and children with diabetes, especially during the hours of class. The debate has reminded us of the existence of a national joint committee which produced guidelines as early as 2005. It is no coincidence that these guidelines have not yet been published because this is an extremely sensitive and difficult issue. I understand the request of the Undersecretary D'Onghia to go to mitigate the points indicated in the motions as deserving of indications to the Government to be implemented. The situation is in fact difficult when it comes to micro-infuser, which are not easily manageable and have an important cost, or when it comes to health workers in schools, nurses and doctors, which is an issue that is not easy from the economic and management point of view. For God's sake, if you want to set up health care centres in large schools, I am the happiest because we should then use them especially to do prevention and health education to all children and not only to the unluckiest. In the light of these considerations, I announce the vote in favour of the Group Per Le Autonomie-PSI-MAIE to both the motions presented. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u38	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would like to thank the senators who presented the two motions before us, because we have had the opportunity to address the issue - as everyone has said, particularly sensitive - of guaranteeing the right to study and, at the same time, the right to health for children and girls, boys and girls suffering from chronic diseases (in particular, in this case, diabetes). Precisely because it is a question of reconciling the right to health and the right to study we would have liked to see in this House, in addition to the Undersecretary D'Onghia, whom we thank, also some representatives of the Ministry of Health, in line with all the interventions made by many senators and senators members of the Health and Health Commission. I say this because the issue in question certainly concerns campaigns to prevent juvenile diabetes and the food education to be done in schools. The theme concerns, for example, the great battle that in Italy many schools are doing for greater attention to menus and also that to remove from high schools - sooner or later we will - the famous distributors of foods not suitable, not only for those suffering from pathologies such as diabetes, but perhaps, more generally, just to no one. The other issue is how to guarantee the right to health. It cannot be thought that teachers are responsible for the administration of medicines, who must of course receive special compulsory training. We would like this training to be borne and at the expense not of teachers, but of the State (I remember that the famous training under Law No 107 of 13 July 2015 is borne by teachers). The issue is how much resources the national health system invests in territorial health, because it is not a question of opening medical offices within schools, but of guaranteeing, for example, the figure of the local nurse who guarantees the right to study and health in schools. So the point is how many resources are dedicated by the State to national health and above all to dehospitalized health and therefore to the territory that in recent years, following the cuts and choices of the National Health System and the Regions, unfortunately has been severely penalized and will continue to be so also with your constitutional reform. In fact, even if you have told us that you will bring health care back to the state to centralize levels and ensure that health care is the same for everyone, you will actually leave the planning of services to the regions. This means that the Tuscany Region - apologize if I use the region where I live to give an example - maybe it will invest in territorial health (and it is not doing so) to ensure the nurse in schools while other regions will not. It is therefore a serious issue which concerns not only the Ministry of Education, but very much the health and choices that are made. Today strengthening health care on the ground (it would be a very long speech so excuse me for the brevity) could also help to reduce access to hospitals that we all complain about too often, when they are not necessary. We cannot claim to dump a socio-health problem on teachers for yet another time, because we are talking about two rights that must also be guaranteed but with totally different competences. I therefore declare my Group's abstention vote on the motion by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, while the vote will be in favour of the motion by Senator Orellana. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u41	AELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, yesterday, during the general debate on motions, among the various problems that have emerged we found one that, in our opinion, deserves a small clarification today, and it is the one concerning the fact that both in primary schools and in middle schools many times urgent interventions are required, as has been pointed out before, for some important diseases such as epilepsy or allergic reactions that cause bronchial asthma, but above all emergency interventions have been requested for subjects of tender age suffering from diabetes. You see, Mr Undersecretary, this disease, as we have already pointed out when we discussed obesity, we believe that this measure should also pay particular attention to the simple fact that it is now known to all, not only for the directives of the World Health Organization but also for the directives of the medical and scientific organizations, from which it emerges that child obesity is an important prodromic framework, very dangerous with regard to obesity in adulthood and therefore with enormous costs for the national health system. For this reason, we believe that prevention measures are important, especially in this case, and that they must start from the reorganization and remodulation of the prevention system, especially in schools. I would like to mention once again the past experience which introduced into the prevention departments the operational units of health education and especially school medicine which, on time, then, during the various reorganisations of the national health system have been changed and have been distorted, with a lack in our opinion important relating above all to the absence of school medicine. On this point, in declaring our vote in favour of the motions for our examination - especially on the motion of Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri whose proposal for reformulation of the Government has been accepted - we imagine a path that can finally alter the organization of the prevention departments, precisely because many resources could be spared and reinvested to improve the organization of the health system but also the reorganization of the relations between the school system and the health system. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Di Giacomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u44	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I would also like to thank Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri for submitting his motion for a resolution to us in the Commission, which I immediately signed, because I believe that the one we are examining is a very important problem, not only for the number of pupils, but also for the number of schools involved. I therefore believe that a good job has already been done, so much so that the guidelines for the administration of drugs at school have already been shared by the Guarantee Authority for Childhood and Adolescence. A good job has already been done and therefore I ask that the Government take real responsibility for the solution of the problem, of course also diversifying it according to the type of school structures involved. In our country there are in fact both small schools, which have a limited number of children, as there are large school centers: the treatment that can be done in a large school, equipped with an internal garrison, can be of a certain type and also inclusive of the whole part related to health education, while in small schools this will not be possible. I would also like to point out that our teachers have already been able to attend several training courses, such as the first aid courses of 118 and for the use of fairly complex instruments, such as defibrillators. I believe that the staff are qualified and that they should be further qualified, also because of the fact that today there are some devices that are a little expensive, but that are also particularly safe. In fact, there are pre-packaged tools, already containing the exact amount of insulin needed, so the teacher will not have to evaluate the amount to be inserted, but will only have to give an injection under the skin. So, with proper education, I think we will be able to overcome these problems as well. I therefore welcome the Group's vote on both motions, because they deal with an important problem, which must certainly find a solution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u47	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I was quite surprised and concerned about yesterday's debate and, above all, I am concerned and surprised that the Minister for Education, University and Research and the Minister for Health has not been present in the Chamber. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bignami.]] The method that these ministers follow, quite ethereal in their presence, is the following: they take credit for the honors when they have to go and cut the ribbons, that is, pick up the applause and, on the contrary, run away when they have to put their face on. This is one of the examples. The Government argues that reforms must be implemented and approved in order to speed up the administrative process and, above all, the responses to citizens. Well, in a sitting yesterday it was said that guidelines were issued in 2005 and that the government then played its part. Then, in October 2012 (medicine is undergoing major changes), a National Joint Committee on Chronic Diseases and Drug Administration was set up; this was necessary to overcome the fact that school administration is entrusted to the good will of school staff and, above all, to the commitment of families, whose members often have to take long periods of leave to take this type of treatment and, in some cases, leave their jobs. So, the state has to take charge of all this. However, we do not understand why, in 2016, despite this Joint Committee having completed its work and despite the fact that the professional associations, both families and the school body, have called for the approval of these guidelines, the Government has not yet approved and had the fundamental guidelines published, leaving families and staff once again to respond to these needs. Senator Petraglia is right to say that all this also involves the use of economic resources. It is true that this intervention also requires an increase in economic resources for school medicine. One cannot always speak for the defence of the national health system, for the universality of the national health system, so no one is left alone, and then, on the contrary, do not put the resources, as the government does. Having guidelines, in fact, means having even more resources. This is the practical commitment that the government should make, and not the usual good intentions of beautiful schools. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] For these reasons, the vote of Forza Italia will be in favour of both motions because, at least, they have expressed the will to overcome the difficulties, which the Government does not do. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u50	GRANAIOLA (PD). Madam President, two motions have been tabled and discussed which are based on the same problem: they both point to a major problem which has been going on for years, which many regions have been able to solve for a long time, with excellent results, but for which in other regions everything is left undefined. This is the inclusion in school of the child with type 1 diabetes and its management during school hours, which affects aspects such as the administration of the indispensable drug (i.e. insulin) and the administration to the need for life-saving medicine ( glucagon): an event, the latter, which actually occurs very rarely, particularly during school hours. Let us not forget that this issue also affects psychological aspects, those pertaining to a disease such as type 1 diabetes which, typically, is not seen, except at the time of blood glucose measurement and insulin administration. This is a problem, therefore, that is not exhausted by identifying tout court who should administer a drug, but that requires the elaboration of a path that also takes into account the psychological implications of children, regardless of the pathology they are carrying. ( [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u51	Colleagues, I urge you to reduce the buzz in this House so that Senator Granaiola can continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u52	GRANAIOLA (PD). Thank you, Madam President. This is a problem that affects many children and, therefore, a problem that also affects their families upstream, already experienced by a diagnosis of onset of diabetes, which at first leads to hide their child behind a wall of numbers (those of the blood glucose measurements), that does not make you sleep at night, also to think about how to manage the child even during the custody of the school, distangling with the job, for those who are lucky yet to have one. The role of the school is fundamental to deliver to society a child or a child who becomes every day passing by a man or a woman; it is also fundamental to break that wall of ignorance, disinformation and fear that prevents a serene insertion in school. [[Applause from the PD Group]] For the above reasons, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and I, with the signature of eighty senators, have tabled a motion. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri explained the commitments to the Government contained in it, but I would like to recall one. The Government undertakes to proceed as soon as possible with the adoption of the final act of the guidelines, in order to allow the transposition and implementation of the guidelines definitively by all regions. Demedicalisation of administration is essential in order not to make the child feel different from the others and to ensure full school inclusion. Imagine how a child can feel if at the time of recreation, as everyone leaves the class, he has to wait for the nurse to have a snack. Imagine how a child can feel at the cafeteria if, while others eat, laugh and joke, he, after perhaps having waited on the school door to materialize on the horizon the medical car, winner of the rush hour traffic jams, then has to sit at the table next to a nurse with the weigh-food bill. What's left of that baby's meal? Does the health care system have 10,000 nurses available to perform this service every day? But is that what parents want? Is that what children need? Madam President, when I ask you to be able to attach the full text of my explanation of vote to the Minutes of today's sitting, I would like to thank Mr D'Onghia for having accepted the requests contained in the two motions, which we will be voting with conviction as a result of the rewordings proposed by the Government. I really believe that it is important, for the reasons already put forward by many colleagues very thoroughly, because I believe that we cannot wait a minute longer. Families are asking, families are waiting for it, and children are absolutely entitled to it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u53	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 555 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 555 (text 2), tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 648 (text 2). Fazzone (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 648 (text 2), tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the Aut and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u54	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1892, already approved by the House of Deputies. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are examining draft law No 1892 which provides support for the training of research in geological sciences. It is a measure for the university, to encourage the departments of geology that often have few professors and even few members. At a time like this, when, as we all know, there is a need to promote research in the field of geology and to have more people and professionals involved in this field, with this measure we encourage the children to register for those faculties and, at the same time, simplify some paths within the universities so that they can form departments even with a number of professors lower than that required for all other departments. That's kind of the meaning of the bill under consideration. In particular, this measure has already been approved at first reading by the House of Deputies and assigned to the 7th Commission, which has done very thorough work by redefining certain financial elements, then shared with the Budget Committee. This has enabled us to put in place a measure which, at this point, we believe can be of sufficient satisfaction with the aims it was intended to achieve. It is short. It consists of three articles and intends to support training and research in the field of geological sciences and, more generally, earth sciences. The text promotes studies in the field of geological sciences through incentives for new members (also this has been introduced), for the realization of specific projects and for the acquisition of specialized instruments by the departments and research bodies that deal with studies and innovation in that field. The improvement of the environment and the security of the territory have been included among the objectives of the possible agenda of the working group on economic-social and European issues set up by the President of the Republic in 2013. In the course of the examination in our Commission, further details were made of the amending proposals and the financial cover provided for by the measure, on which there were some problems posed by the General Accounting Office of the State; hence also the somewhat longer time - I mean here in this House - to find the cover anyway. These amendments have been adopted in the Commission and further amendments have been tabled in the Budget Commission, so let us say that we are able to examine them in this House today. Specifically, in order to encourage the registration of students capable and worthy of the degree courses belonging to the class and L34 (geological science) and to the master's degree courses belonging to the LM74 classes (geological science and technology) and LM79 (geophysical science), Article 1 (the incentives for the registration of specific courses of study) following the changes made in the Commission, provides for a quota of at least 150,000 euros of the Fund for the ordinary financing of state universities, as well as the State contribution paid to legally recognized non-state universities, for the year 2017. These incentives can be combined with grants awarded pursuant to Legislative Decree No 68 of 29 March 2012. Article 2 concerns resources for research projects and the purchase of technical instruments. As I said before, it intends to support research for the prevention of hydrogeological risk, with two different types of funding. As regards the first type, there is talk of a percentage of the seismic risk prevention fund that is reserved for the financing of the purchase by universities and public research bodies of the technical instrumentation necessary for research activities aimed at predicting and preventing geological risks, following appropriate public calls issued each year by the Civil Protection Department of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. In this respect, it should be noted that this fund is set up in the estimates of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance and therefore these funds can presumably also be made available for the future. The second type of financing consists of an authorisation of expenditure of EUR 1 million for 2016. Here there will be a change, because the expenditure forecast was for the year 2016 but, since we are in November and we will have a clearly not useful condition to activate the calls, it is allowed to activate them by the first quarter of 2017. We therefore turn to Article 3, which contains provisions on the organization of universities. Here there is an amendment to Article 2 (2) (b) of Law No 240 of 30 December 2010, which states that for the establishment of a university department a minimum number of 35 units is required between professors, role researchers and fixed-term researchers, which is raised to 40 in the case of universities with over 1,000 professors, role researchers and fixed-term researchers, belonging to homogeneous scientific-disciplinary fields. With the measure in our examination we have the possibility to set up university departments with the presence of only 20 professors, researchers of role and researchers of fixed time (so no more than 35), specifically for this disciplinary field (this is an important change), provided that the same constitute at least 80% of the total. This article, as you well understand, is intended to allow the establishment of university departments even if it involves fewer teachers and researchers. This was the request and we have considered that we want to implement this provision precisely because the departments of earth's science have had these characteristics for many years. In conclusion, Madam President, the measure solves, therefore, a situation of serious criticality of the Italian universities, in that the arranged combination of the limits to turnover and the numerical constraints for the constitution of the departments has resulted in a considerable contraction of the number of departments of earth sciences in the various universities of Italy (exactly the opposite of what would serve our country) and therefore the consequent amalgamation with other disciplines not belonging to the same disciplinary area. Instead, we want to give this disciplinary sector a strong identity again, precisely because of the needs we have in our country, so exposed to risks of various kinds (hydrogeological, seismic and similar). It is, in conclusion, a measure that, even in the field of studies and research, can support our country in the development of certain strategies. In this sense, I believe it is useful and appropriate to bring it to your attention, to our attention, so that we can express a positive opinion on the important measures contained in it within the university. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u56	Since I see Senator Serra very much celebrated by her Group, I join in the best wishes for her birthday. [[Applause.]] He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u57	Madam President, there is a measure in this House which, in itself, has positive aspects which must be highlighted and which deserve the attention of this House, and which is due to the urgent need to provide the country with further intelligence, skills and competences in the study of earth's sciences and, in particular, geology. To provide, however, with a special measure ad hoc to the incentive of geological studies, therefore also of the professions of the science of the earth, it also means to denounce the public opinion and the country system (from the point of view of those who have the obligation, if not the responsibility, to provide them) a planning void, a lack of connections between the real needs of the country and the trends and orientations. Two funds are affected by this measure. The first is the Fund for the ordinary financing of state universities and the second is the Fund for the prevention of seismic risk. The first is affected by funding necessary to equip university institutes and research centres in the field of geological sciences of machinery and what else is useful in order to accommodate new students by enhancing technologies. The new students must be sought, precisely, in the strengthening of the Fund for the prevention of seismic risk. We remember how important it is today for the Italian peninsula, from the point of view of the hydrogeological structure and compared to the dramatic situation in which the country is periodically immersed (such as the seismic emergency), the need to equip itself with ad hoc professionalism. I recall in this regard that, in a few days, on 4 November next, fifty years have passed since the tragic flood of Florence and Tuscany and also of Veneto and Venice, which caused so much mourning and destruction also for our extraordinary cultural heritage and cultural heritage. Well, for the preservation of the cultural heritage and the physical and moral integrity of the country, geologists and experts in the field of earth sciences are also needed. I would have provided additional funds for the guidance and encouragement of the study of geology. In particular, EUR 150,000 per year is allocated to recruitment. There are few and should be increased as serious recruitment involves a specific orientation using marketing, which is important to be put in the field. At the same time, there would be a need to increase the amount of scholarships and reduce tuition fees. In these terms, the measure is inadequate and, perhaps, it should be improved. I believe, however, that the path taken should be encouraged so that the situation can improve for the benefit of the whole country system. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Anitori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the recent earthquake that has plagued the municipalities of Amatrice, Accumoli and Arquata del Tronto has once again brought the fragility of the Italian territory and its high exposure to geological risks to the centre of general attention. Periodically the natural events that damage our country with regular punctuality bring to the fore the importance of the role of the geologist. It is sad to think that we remember this professional and scientific figure always to disaster, in the moment of the count of the victims and the evaluation of the material damage to economic activities, buildings and infrastructure. In the certainty that a point of cultural change has finally been reached - and this is witnessed by the Government's commitment with the launch of the Casa Italia project - it should be remembered how important the prevention in the mitigation of the risks represented by calamitous events of geological origin is. In order to implement a correct and effective activity of prevention from geological risks is fundamental the role of the knowledge of the territory that allows to form a citizen aware of the context in which he lives. The widespread presence of departments of geological sciences distributed on the national territory therefore plays a fundamental role in the training of both expert geologists professionals and teachers who can disseminate geological knowledge in schools of every order and grade, where the conscious training of tomorrow's citizens should be started. The bill n. 1892, which we are about to vote on, once it becomes the law of the Italian State will certainly not solve suddenly all the conditions of geological risk of the Country, but it may be a first useful tool to relaunch the role of geologist at all levels in the national technical-scientific community and to counter the strong contraction that the academic community of geological sciences has been suffering for several years, in the hope that these few resources and tools that we are making available are not a late intervention. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u59	Senator Dalla Zuanna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u60	Madam President, I believe that what we are discussing is a very appropriate and important bill. However, I have some concerns about Article 3 which provides for the possibility of making departments of earth sciences and geology even with 20 professors. It is a vexed question of the Italian university; I remember that even when I was a professor and the principal came constantly requests of sectors and sub-sectors aimed at the establishment of departments with the exception of the number of 35-40 professors. I believe that allowing this exception for earth's science, though motivated, opens the door to the possibility of requests of various kinds, variously motivated, which, in my opinion, are not sustainable. I believe in fact that in larger departments it is probably possible to guarantee better the development of some disciplines that concern few teachers, precisely because the interaction and proximity with other disciplines allow for better development. I shall therefore vote for this measure, but since it will have to go back to the Chamber of Deputies, I would ask for further consideration to be given to this matter. [[Applause from Senator Gatti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u61	The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply, I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. I hope that Members will come back to this House because we are moving to the vote on the articles. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u62	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u63	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for at least twenty minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 10.55 a.m. and resumed at 11.16 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u64	The session is resumed. I put to the vote Rule 1. It's approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion. Mr D'ONGHIA, State Secretary for Education, University and Research. The Government's opinion is favourable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,500 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2,500 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,100 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2,501 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u67	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, I would like to announce the Conservative and Reformist Group's vote in favour of this measure, also in relation to the amendments made by the rapporteur's amendments which, in essence, satisfy our orientation and the contradictions we have highlighted. We believe that the draft law in question is appropriate in transposing applications from the world of the professions of the country in order to encourage studies, research and professionalism in the complex field of the sciences of the earth. Moreover, with an appropriate guidance system, which has to be implemented since secondary schools, a large part of the intelligences and talents that insist in our country on this type of study can be directed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u70	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, of course, our Group will also make its contribution by voting in favour of the draft law we consider necessary. Already my colleague, Mrs Liuzzi, who preceded me, Madam State Secretary representing the Government, spoke of including in school programmes, in schools of first and second degree, some references to geological science in order to train and raise awareness among students who then, once they have reached university courses, could arrive to enroll in this very important faculty, which is now indispensable. In fact, nothing can be done since our territory is geomorphologically in landslide and hydraulically at risk of flooding. Therefore, the rapporteur has done well to provide prizes and good studies to encourage, until the school year 2020, enrolments in the faculties of geological sciences and technologies, geological sciences and geophysical sciences, but above all to allocate resources, even more necessary, for calls for projects to prevent geological, geomorphological and hydraulic risks to universities for research. And this will actually allow professionals to live up to the situation, able to solve the problems of the territory that are not to be underestimated, because everything that engages in research and prevention will, of course, gain in limiting the damage to happened. So, as in medicine it is said that prevention is much better than cure, this bill allocates resources and gives legislative settings to prevent discomfort and geomorphological and hydrogeological damage on our territory. Our Group will therefore also make a positive contribution to its adoption.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u73	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the course of this draft law may seem rather easy, and we have also seen it with the votes on the amendments and articles that have been adopted unanimously. In fact, no one today would dare to oppose a measure that provides for some extra change for a strategic sector for our country, namely that of the prevention of risks related to seismic activity on our territory, which is largely at risk of seismic. And, therefore, of course, the vote on the bill in our examination can only be favourable and the support of the Group of Italian Left will of course not fail. In reality, however, Mr President, this is not a draft law that is easily adopted, because behind it there is - as my colleague Mr Liuzzi has also pointed out in part - the strategic capacity of our country to arrange and plan research, development and innovation according to national priorities, according to strategic lines. There is therefore no overall view. That is why we are forced to analyse a bill that finds some extra change for the field of geological science when, probably, for some provisions that we are now examining, there was no need for it either. It is a question of finding 150,000 euros to encourage the right to study, which, among other things, are not additional resources but still burdened on the university's operating fund. And, therefore, perhaps, there was no need for a law in order to have some extra change for the graduates in geological science. Probably a ministerial decision was enough, just as probably there was no need for a law to be able to allocate a small part of the seismic risk prevention fund, equal to one percent, to the purchase of instruments. On the contrary, I am surprised to learn that this is not already the case, that in the seismic risk prevention fund it is not provided, in itself (without having to statuate it by law), the possibility of buying the instrumentation, which is precisely to prevent the seismic risk. As far as the financing of research projects is concerned, there is a little more money. Once again we welcome this fact very favorably, and philosophy is that of the best of nothing. And I say clearly to the rapporteur and to the representative of the Government that it is better than nothing and nothing, once again, is represented by the lack of strategic planning. Why are such interventions not planned at the level of the national research programme? Why do we need to allocate change to such a strategic sector? This question remains unresolved and we want to emphasise it, while giving our full support. The whole Italian research sector, Mr President, and not only that of the geological sciences, is experiencing a time of great suffering and of shrinking funding. Let us not forget, in this regard, that the Government prefers to finance by decree a foundation under private law, to open an important research center in the post Expo area. Under these conditions, the measure under consideration cannot but meet our favor, but it is a clear demonstration that the Government lacks strategic capacity, and not only for the broad lines, but also for the small things. Therefore, we will not lack our support for the measure, on which I announce the vote in favour, but I hope that this represents the possibility to restart with renewed vigour towards strategic programming, which is the task of the Government and the Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR) and which until now has always been lacking. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u76	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the draft law that we are about to vote on deals with two issues that respond to the same ratio. The first theme is to encourage and encourage the study of geological sciences, facilitating their university access to capable and deserving students. It is a highly specialised field of study, apparently with no great employment prospects for those who obtain this type of degree. On this, however, a reflection is appropriate. The seismic events that affected Italy a few weeks ago, but also in the past years and in more distant times and which periodically affect the entire terrestrial globe, lead to a reflection on how it is necessary to have properly trained technicians. Knowing the processes that determine the tectonic evolution of our Planet, the processes of shaping the slopes, the litological cycle and the dynamics at the base of seismic and volcanic phenomena means understanding the inherent risks to the Planet. The Earth is a very complex system, in which physical, chemical and biological variables act deeply on the environment, often significantly altering its evolutionary processes. Understanding the risks associated with construction in seismic zones, or in areas with high hydrogeological risk, is useful to prevent the disasters I have just referred to. Therefore, studying processes that shape and change the Earth takes on great importance if it is seen from the perspective of being able to prevent the risks that periodically arise. Geology is also an important science for the prediction and understanding of natural hazards, for the identification and rehabilitation of environmental problems, for spatial planning, for the realization of public and private works and for the study of climate and environmental changes. There are therefore many fields of application and encouraging its study becomes an investment for the future, both of the environment and of the individual territories. The second subject dealt with by the bill is the financing for the acquisition by universities and public research institutions of modern technical instruments that allow to deepen studies for the prediction and prevention of geological risks. It is a field, that of the laboratories and instruments in the schools, very delicate, because of the precariousness that is often encountered, and not only in the technical high schools, but also in the universities. There is also funding for research projects presented by universities and public research bodies, and this can only be of great importance at a time when often, and perhaps too often, we are talking about brains on the run, because of the limited funds allocated to the professionalization of researchers and research projects. To be noted, then, is the regulatory aspect, which aims to allow the establishment of geological science departments also in minor universities to facilitate the attendance of students, without forcing them to excessive movements, on which a perplexity was solicited by Senator Dalla Zuanna. By sharing the spirit, and precisely in order to prevent what we are approving today from triggering a mechanism of emulation of this forecast, I believe it is necessary to reiterate the specific nature and the contingent motivations of this opportunity. Despite the simplicity and the sharing of the bill - as recalled also by other Groups - the provision had a long iter, if we think that it was assigned to the 7th Commission in May last year; the unfavorable opinion by the General Accounting Office of the State then made it necessary to amend some of its contents. We hope, therefore, that we can finally conclude the path with the approval and announce the favorable vote of the People's Area Group. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u79	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is important because it wants to support training and research in the field of geological sciences, and more generally in the sciences of the Earth, promoting them in the student world, including through funding for the implementation of ad hoc projects. The protection of the environment and the safety of the territory should be a priority of any Government, but in recent years it has not been so, despite Italy is unfortunately a country recognized at high geological and hydrogeological risk, with 36% of the population living in areas with high seismic risk and 6 million in dangerous areas from the hydrogeological point of view. No less eloquent and alarming are the data published by ISPRA: 7.3 percent of the national territory has been affected by landslides. Earthquakes and landslides cause victims, injuries and damage to buildings, homes, infrastructure and cultural assets. Even more than 200 landslides occurred in the 2014-2015 two-year period, not to mention the hydraulic risk, inevitably associated with landslides and landslides: as many as 12,218 square kilometers of national territory are characterized by high hydraulic hazard. Therefore, let us welcome the desire, present in this bill, to encourage the registration of students, capable and deserving, to the degree courses in geological sciences, geological sciences and technologies and geophysical sciences, through the ad hoc destination, starting from 2017, of a quota of 150,000 euros of the fund for the ordinary financing of state universities and the state contribution paid to legally recognized non-state universities. Let us welcome this, because we are going to value meritocracy. And there is also the destination of one percent of the seismic risk prevention fund to finance the purchase by universities and public research bodies of the instruments necessary for research activities aimed at predicting and preventing geological risks. A greater financial effort could and should have been made, given that the resources employed go in the direction of prevention and also my colleague, Mrs Di Giorgi, would have liked a greater commitment, but the government was a little short of sleeve. This is an aspect which, after the occurrence of calamitous events, such as that of Amatrice, has always been regarded as a priority in intentions, but was then disregarded in the facts. In the draft law under consideration there is a further form of funding for research projects wanted by universities and public research bodies, as laid down in paragraph 2 of Article 2, with an expenditure of 1 million euros for 2016 (which was then moved) and 2 million euros for each year, until 2018. This is an important provision, just as in the article it is possible to put an end to the amalgamation of the Earth's science departments with other departments not pertaining to the same disciplinary area, allowing to recover a specificity that, due to the limitations imposed by turnover and those provided for by the law 30 December 2010, n. 240, for the constitution of a university department, had now been lost. Article 3, in fact, allows the establishment of university departments of only twenty professors, role-researchers and fixed-term researchers (and not necessarily 35, as required by Law No 240 of 2010), provided that the same constitute at least 80% of the total of the faculty and researchers of that university address, thus allowing the reconstitution of those departments, as Earth sciences, that had disappeared or merged with other departments. We therefore fully share the overall rationale of the bill, although we have had to highlight a lack of more incisive and structural funds. However, with our Group we hope that in three years' time the resources will be allocated again and we vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u80	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo - Guglielmo Marconi - Terni, who are attending our work. Welcome to the Senate and thank you for your visit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u83	GIRO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would certainly like to announce the vote in favour of Forza Italia for another measure which was quickly placed on the agenda. For a few weeks now we have been witnessing a freeze on our work pending the referendum. In the blackberries, we are approving in a fairly rapid and concise way many spending measures, all positive, sacred and long-awaited, but which certainly suffer from the improvisation and the rapidity with which we have dealt with very important issues: we are talking about the geological risk after a painful event that struck us and that particularly affected my region, Lazio. The new seismic event has demonstrated the need to provide in the very intense activity, but often neglected, of prevention, study and prediction of geological risk. We spend a lot of money - and I think it is also positive - but it is not new resources, but a different allocation of existing resources. What surprises me - and I agree with Mr Bocchino's perplexity - is that we must reduce such a delicate issue in a provision of three articles without perhaps foreseeing a rethink of the blessed fund for the prevention of seismic risk, which is in the direct availability of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which is to a large extent managed by the Department of Civil Protection and which is distributed among the regions according to the seismic risk that concerns them. But how is this fund used? We find, in fact, that universities are completely cut off. But now, thanks to this measure strongly supported by Senator Di Giorgi, fortunately they are again involved. The departments of geological sciences and technologies, geological sciences and geophysical sciences finally benefit from the distribution of funds and finally universities can see their projects funded on the evaluation, forecasting and prevention of seismic and hydrogeological risk. All this, however, was clearly not foreseen in the organisation of the national fund. I would therefore like to see greater transparency in the management of the fund - it is a request that our Group of Forza Italia has been doing for some time - and greater involvement of the merit committees. And above all I would like more transparency on the work of the Civil Protection Department, because we want to understand exactly how the money is managed, broken down, allocated and destined. I also wonder and wonder why the national academic world, which excels at studying this subject, has not been involved in a more incisive way and why there has been a need for an articulate written and thought up quickly by our Commission and the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi. These are all questions that we are asking ourselves and which are partly met by the measure we have supported in the Commission and which we have also amended and improved - Senator Liuzzi is right about this - by showing that Parliament works and works well, when there is the political will to make it work. However, it remains for me and my group that perplexity which I have tried to explain in this brief speech. Let us be more consistent in our legislative actions. We try to support the world of research and really implement and promote prevention, without always waiting, unfortunately, for the next catastrophe. We try to support the academic world and our researchers, who are very young and very popular abroad. I therefore confirm the vote in favour of Forza Italia on this measure and I thank in particular the offices of the Commission and Senator Di Giorgi, who with great passion, with great rigour and determination have favored his rapid approval. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and CoR groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u86	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Mr President, the Renzi Government has chosen the path of seismic and hydrogeological risk prevention, overcoming the logic of emergency response, in this sector which is particularly important for social and economic activity. I would like to remind you that the Government has set up a mission unit at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers dedicated precisely to the prevention of the serious risks to which our country is constantly subjected, also because of the work of man. The investments that have been made in recent years, since 2014, since the release of the Stability Pact for Municipalities and Local Authorities that intervene to prevent by their works the risks to the deburocratization of the processes that often risk to block the yards, then putting at serious risk also those areas where precisely it had intervened. Just remember the tragedy of Genoa, among others that have happened over time. Then there is the considerable investment - at last I say, that is never enough, but certainly important - on the safety of school construction: over EUR 4 billion for the safety of our schools. With this intervention, the Government takes a further step forward, accepting a law of parliamentary initiative that began its path in the House. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi, and all the groups who have worked together and who will confirm, with their vote in favour, the importance of the measure, which also attaches great importance to the research carried out in universities and which is essential to progress in the prevention of disruption and seismic risk. The study of geology, in fact, is at risk of extinction in Italian universities and this is due to the blockage of turnover and to those too strict constraints placed by Law No 240 of 2010, which imposed the minimum limit of at least 40 between professors and researchers of the scientific field for the constitution of university departments. But Earth's sciences are a small disciplinary area and teachers in the sector are less than a thousand, constantly decreasing. According to the data of the National University Council, from 2000 to 2014 the number of teachers in this sector fell by 44.4% and the departments lacking the faculty of geology dropped from 29 (how many were throughout Italy in 2000) to only 8. That is why - and I want to tell Senator Dalla Zuanna - we intervene in this area, so important and relevant for the security of our country, precisely to unlock the constraints and allow to support the research activity that is carried out in those departments. It is research that nourishes the higher education and that allows to find solutions and methods more and more effective of prevention and intervention in our territory. The bill under consideration, therefore, that loosens the numerical constraints of the "Gelmini law" and opens to the constitution of homogeneous departments by field disciplinary with the science of the Earth, serves precisely not to weaken the knowledge of the geological aspects and to support the research for defense and prevention. Without professionals in this field we would in the future have immense costs in terms of human lives and money, for the frequent natural disasters that we have seen happen over the years. To respond to the intervention of Senator Bocchino, it is precisely in a strategic vision of intervention and not of continuous pursuit of emergencies that the Democratic Party declares its favorable vote on this provision. Another important thing not to be underestimated is the encouragement, with a view also to the orientation of our young people, to enroll in graduation courses thanks to scholarships, which add to the right to study that, finally, in the next law of stability that will come to the Assembly, will find again important resources in support of the children. It is also important that, with the incentives provided for in this legislation, we tell our young people that this is one of those areas where it is important to increase the labour force and research activities. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u89	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u90	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I note the unanimous approval of the measure. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u93	DI GIORGI, rapporteur. Mr President, I am only speaking to thank the Commission, my colleagues and all the oppositions who have worked very hard on this measure, which has had some delays in its coverage problems, which prevented us from taking it to the vote before the beginning of the academic year, as our objective. Anyway, we found the solutions, and I think it was a nice ride. I would therefore like to thank everyone, because our work has been productive and there has been great positiveness within the Commission. [[Applause from Senator Martini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u94	As rapporteur, this is not the first time you have received broad support from this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u95	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2342, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Martini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u96	Mr President, I shall make a brief report. I would like to reiterate that the Senate is gathered today to finally approve the bill for the declaration of national monument of the Gramsci House Museum in Ghilarza. The 7th Commission proposes to the Assembly to vote on the text as it emerged from the House, without further amendments, to speed up and complete the approval process. A constructive and collaborative discussion has developed around the object of the measure by all the Groups, which has allowed some interesting points to be put in focus. The first concerns the figure of Antonio Gramsci, on whom I do not think it is necessary to return for long, as a character that all political cultures and all the Groups consider among the most important of the twentieth century Italian in political and even resistential terms. I can only add a brief note on the topicality of his thought related to the fact that Gramsci lived in stormy times and great changes: just after the end of the First World War, there was the victory of the Bolshevik revolution, the split of the socialist world and the advent of fascism. Everything was in great movement, with a continuous upheaval of the political and cultural scene. We too are living fairly similar times, with great changes and the questioning of fundamental pillars of our culture and our civilization. In this I think it is undoubtedly topical. Gramsci faced these times with the strength of thought and a careful analysis of phenomena. His thought went and still goes far beyond Marxism and I believe it is recognized as valid thought by all the political and cultural currents of our time. It is a very useful resource even in our day. The need for speed and readiness is right, but the need for thought and depth is also great. This seems to me to be the main need today. The declaration of national monument of the House Museum will be a way to pay homage to this figure on an important date: next November 8, in a few days, it will be exactly ninety years from the arrest that Gramsci suffered from the fascist regime and would be a worthy way to remember his battle against the dictatorship. A second issue that emerged in our discussion was the inclusion in the bill of the prison of Turi, where Antonio Gramsci wrote his famous Quaderni. In particular, it was Mr Liuzzi who put forward this proposal and tabled amendments to it. It too is undoubtedly a highly symbolic place. The Commission considered it right not to amend the text in order to make it immediately applicable by committing the Government (via an agenda) to find other ways and opportunities to recognise and exploit a place that is certainly symbolic. The amendment has been tabled in this House, but I believe it should be dealt with in the same way that we have dealt with it in the Commission and, that is, that it is not acceptable and that it should be considered as possible to turn it into an agenda. A third question concerned the discussion on whether or not financial support is needed for these initiatives; the idea of confirming the line chosen by the House was prevailing and, therefore, not to allocate funds to this recognition in order to highlight the symbolic and cultural message of this choice, in order to remove this recognition from possible political polemics on the allocation of resources to this or other foundation and not to return to the House and create embarrassments, since the way had clearly been chosen in that forum not to place resources around this recognition. Finally, in our debate there was a reflection on the legislation on declarations of national monuments. It has been highlighted - in particular thanks to an initiative of colleagues of the Five Star Movement, but also of other colleagues - the need to give themselves clear, not random and definitive legislation on the recognition of these monuments. In fact, the problem arises and the Commission has approved an agenda, which the Government has adopted, which is in the direction of opening a debate on the subject and thus defining a new, comprehensive way. In conclusion, Mr President, I would also like to thank all my colleagues in the Commission, as we do on these occasions (but I do so from the heart), for the contributions that have been made, for the positive climate that has arisen between us, which has led to the Commission's decision not to amend the text. I would also like to thank the Government for responding to the calls for a reflection on all legislation relating to national monuments and for having actively participated in our discussion. I therefore hope that we can today with a broad consensus, as already happened in the Chamber, conclude the process of this law, which is certainly not a great legislative act, but a significant symbolic recognition at a time when symbols also have their importance. This bill may also be a prologue to another Gramsciano year, which will surely be 2017, in which the eighty years from death will recur. In this respect, Mr Uras has put forward an agenda with which he proposes to the Government to take action in this direction and I am now expressing my support for this proposal. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u97	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it should be an honour and a privilege for all of us here to remember and pay tribute to Antonio Gramsci, one of the most important Italian intellectuals of the twentieth century. Philosopher, historian, journalist and politician, the legacy that Gramsci, during his short life, left to Italy is absolutely unparalleled. Thanks to his great abilities, to his depth of thought, to the accuracy of his sociological, political and economic analyses, and to his popularity, every writing, every idea of his is still a source of reflection for all of us today. Next year will be the 80th anniversary of his death and I wish that the decision to declare the House Museum of Antonio Gramsci in Ghilarza, a national monument, after being declared by the regional commission for the cultural heritage of Sardinia well of cultural, historical and artistic interest, is the first step of a series of celebrations that in 2017 can remember the figure of this eminent Italian intellectual. Hegemony, civil society, intellectual and moral reform, organic intellectual, historical block, national popular: all these speech, all these ways of saying come from Gramsci and still today are of common use, although not always in the original meaning that he thought and wanted. This testifies to how his thought reaches our day, up to a decisive influence on the language of all categories, journalists, politicians, historians, philosophers, which Gramsci summed up in one person. I would like to focus in particular on the concept of hegemony, a term introduced in the common language precisely by Gramsci, not only in Italy, but throughout the world, where still today his writings are studied: just think that the international bibliography dedicated to him has over 20,000 publications. The cultural hegemony theorized by Gramsci indicated that, through the ability to orient the mentality, the symbolic elaboration, the lifestyles and the languages of the masses, the ruling groups consolidate and stabilize their supremacy. I would like, then, to reflect on the democracy of the present and the future: a democracy which, unfortunately, has to deal too often with populism, the manipulation of consensus, the simplification of messages, the division between good and bad. This slipping of democracy can only be circumscribed through the education of the masses and the development of a democratic and popular culture of which Gramsci was the first theorizer. His reflections on consensus, on the need to formulate a cultural political language and project capable of translating political projects into simple and accessible ideas even to the last of the citizens must be the polar star of today's politics, as well as the growth of culture, the main instrument of emancipation and freedom. Italy, then, still needs Antonio Gramsci very much today because he - as colleagues of the Chamber of Deputies have already mentioned - is a monument, but it is not a statue, and his is not a petrified thought in the twentieth century, but a complex of ideas in continuous movement and of profound relevance. To declare a national monument the house of Ghilarza, where he lived, from 1898, the years of childhood and adolescence, or much of his short existence, serves to strengthen the memory of those who must remember. In this case, it is the whole nation that must remember a character that made it great, not only because he himself was great, but because in a world of today, in which we divide more by belonging than by real comparison of ideas, we would do a wrong to the memory of those who have been exponent of a culture of part, but that has become over the decades a shared heritage of the nation. Antonio Gramsci is among the great personalities of the twentieth century: like Gobetti, Einaudi, Pertini who, while being partisan figures, have become a symbol for all Italians. There is therefore no need to be gramscians, to be left to understand the reasons behind this bill. It is not necessary to share its ideology in order to find it right, and even necessary, to approve this provision, because I believe it is right and necessary that a celebrated nation and remember all its great men. I hope that today's policy, certainly very far from what Gramsci wanted, will promote culture and shared memory. I shall end this brief speech by wishing this House to proceed in the same spirit of sharing that has been expressed in the House of Deputies. It is also with symbols, in fact, that a shared national culture is fed. For the Italian Republic the house of Ghilarza is important, because Antonio Gramsci represents an unforgettable and unforgettable figure of our history. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u99	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u100	Mr President, I have listened carefully to the report by Senator Martini, who is responsible for being the rapporteur for this measure, and I find that the arguments, but also the ideas for reflection, are all acceptable. Among other things, Senator Martini pointed out the great ability of the Commission to converge on shared issues, such as that on the agenda. From this point of view I believe that our vote can only be favorable, it was not so that the recognition of the charism, but also of the historical, philosophical and cultural value in the broad sense of the figure and work of this great thinker of the twentieth century, can inform, even in the tough moment, the discussion on the authenticity of the country and on the most important reflections that today return to the current. The study of Gramsci's thinking, although belonging to a certain political current, can certainly be encouraged by us to favor his memory. From this point of view, I believe that the recognition and title of his birthplace in Sardinia represents a duty on the part of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies to arrive, in the immediacy, at the determination of what is on the agenda. As pointed out by the rapporteur Martini, there is also the amending proposal aimed at raising to national monument dignity also the detention cell in Turi, in the province of Bari, where Gramsci was held for at least five years and within which his reflections perhaps most important from the point of view of literature and the recognition of his thought, contained in the work "Quaderni del prison" have matured. There are all the prerequisites for that cell to be titled and at least recognized with a special institutional measure, therefore formal, so that it preserves its memory. Mr President, I believe that the amendment I tabled to the Commission and then converted to that same place on the agenda can be made known to the entire Senate Assembly. I therefore agree with Mr Martini's proposal to turn it, again here, into an agenda which would oblige the Government to take steps to ensure that recognition as soon as possible. It seems to me that I can conclude, Mr President, by inviting the Government to give careful consideration to the complex system, and to some controversial points, of recognition of the monumental goods that can be elevated to the dignity of a national monument. On this subject there is a legal literature and a fairly complex history. This could be an opportunity to urge the Government to achieve a defined, harmonious and shared system of recognition of such monuments in the country, with the exact definition of prescriptions and related benefits. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u101	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u102	Mr President, I agree with the words of my fellow Members regarding the need to declare a national monument the realities that are at the heart of our country's history and culture, thus enhancing them and making them known. I would also like to take advantage of the ideas that have emerged about the cumbersome nature of this procedure, in order to recall the debates we have held very recently on another part of the Italian culture that concerns Verdi and to point out (I say this also because the Undersecretary is present and I would like the Assembly to serve this, that is to say, to make commitments for the future) that exists in Italy, exactly at Villanova sul'Arda, the house where Verdi lived for fifty years. Verdi was born in Busseto, on the other side of the river, but in reality he spent his whole life in this extraordinary villa where he was also an agricultural entrepreneur. In the villa still live the heirs, the Carrara Verdi, and is available to visitors all the history of Verdi, the room of Giuseppina Strepponi, his, all the musical heritage, the piano, the famous bust of Gemito representing thoughtful Verdi, the deathbed, the autographs of Manzoni and the correspondence between Manzoni and Verdi. I believe that if there is a place that deserves to become a national monument, it is that house where the history of Verdi lived for fifty years is condensed. Sometimes, joking, I, who am Emilian and Modena, tell my friends in Parma that they were very good because actually, and casually, Verdi was born beyond the Arda, but he was born there and that's all. I did a check right now, because I wouldn't want to make a mistake, and the house where he was born is a national monument while not the house where he lived for fifty years and where he kept all the documentation, history, even the original antique furniture bought by him as well as all his agricultural writings, and I remember that he was a great entrepreneur, a great innovator also from the point of view of the funds he personally managed. So, since a government representative is present, I think he can make a moral commitment to submit a bill on this. Unfortunately, today it is no longer possible to define a national monument except with a specific law. So, just at the moment of the Verdi Festival and remembering him, I think Giuseppe Verdi deserves the chance that the house where he lived and where all his relics are becoming a national monument.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u103	We note this, Senator Giovanardi. It'll be discussed at another time. Senator Uras is a member of the House, who will also present the agenda for Mr G.100 during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u104	Mr President, I would also like to make a very brief comment on the agenda for the G100 which I have presented and which, as Senator Martini announced in his report, accompanies the law we are debating which proclaims a national monument to the House of Museum of Antonio Gramsci, which is not his birthplace in Ales. Moreover, the native house remained an original wall and there was built a center, supported with funding from the Sardinian Region, discussion, cultural debate and memory of Gramsci himself. I would like to stress the content of the agenda. First of all, the Sardinian Region has planned the Gramsciano year, starting from 22 January 2016 because on that date it was celebrated the 125th anniversary from the birth of Antonio Gramsci, which will close on 27 April 2017, the day on which the 80th anniversary from death will be celebrated. In this regard I would like to make a small consideration of this character who was a great intellectual. Here there are people who are much better than me who could describe the intellectual, literary and philosophical qualities and the great quality of the thought of Antonio Gramsci, in addition to its currentity. But I want to reflect on this personality: he is a poor young man from a very poor and peripheral country of a peripheral region like Sardinia. He was born in Ales and lives a series of negative events related to his family. The father is struck by a court order. His family's poverty conditions are of absolute precariousness. Despite this, with very little help, Antonio Gramsci studies, in a difficulty that also becomes physical difficulty in dealing with studies. His body is torn apart by diseases, which affect his productive capacity and, despite everything, he studies, graduated from the classical High School Dettori of Cagliari and enrolled at the University of Turin, where he participated in the motions led by the socialist party. He becomes a journalist and writes, in the magazine "The New Order" and then in the newspaper that will merge "The Unity" as well as in many other publications, writings of a depth and an absolute capacity for analysis. He became a martyr of the Fascist twenty years and of the Second World War. He dies at 47 years of age, in a desperate condition, released because on the eve of death. It is therefore impressive the quality and capacity of thought and elaboration, even literary, of such a personality, matured in a condition that is the most desperate. He spends his years in prison, where he writes with small pieces of pencil, on notebooks that are delivered to him by the prison director, in a condition absolutely out of the ordinary. Yet he is one of the most translated Italian authors in the world, sharing this primacy, perhaps, with Niccolò Machiavelli. This is Gramsci. If one does not understand that spirits, cultural and intellectual personalities of this depth can be born from situations of greater difficulty, one does not even understand the reality of our day. When we see the multitudes of desperate people, let's face the problem that perhaps, among those multitudes, there are so many Gramsci, that is, so many young people who can make an intellectual contribution in the history of the world, as Gramsci did. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and PD Groups and Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u105	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u106	Mr President, the measure under consideration, consisting of a single article, declares a national monument to the Gramsci Museum House located in Ghilarza in the Province of Oristano. It is the museum that has collected all the documentation related to Antonio Gramsci and, as a documentation center, has also given impetus to research on his life and his thought, thus making known the history of the Italian and international workers' movement. Today, students, who can discover the value that the figure of Antonio Gramsci had, both from the point of view of political thought, as well as as as a journalist engaged in the Piedmont edition of the "Next" and later of the "Order Nuovo" (New Order), which became the newspaper of the factory councils, are the ones to enjoy this invaluable value. In his articles the workers found the best part of themselves, because they contained and transmitted feelings, will, and real passions of those who wanted to become free. In this bill it is intended to declare national monument the House Museum of Gramsci. This position is acceptable, but there is a lack of regulation. The establishment of the first national monuments dates back even to Law No 3096 of 7 July 1866, in which it was stipulated the obligation for the newly formed Italian State to preserve some monumental ecclesiastical sites of considerable importance, in order to exclude them from possible sales or conversion into other uses. Moreover, the first laws of protection of historical-artistic goods did not make any reference to goods qualified as national monuments: in particular, Law No 1089 of 1939 introduced the new concept of historical-relational interest, on which also the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities expressed its doubts in its opinion of 6 March 2006. It is therefore necessary to define national legislation, establishing a regulatory framework and a precise definition of a national monument, overcoming the current regulatory inconsistencies, which are only suitable to ensure recognition of mere honours and to produce limited measures such as this. When it comes to cultural heritage, therefore, the regulatory framework almost always presents gaps that affect the full and coordinated usability of cultural goods. In response, even the constitutional reform Boschi-Renzi-Verdini (in contrast to what is announced in the commercials and television interventions by the members of the Government) solves the problem, because in the revision of Title V, on which we will vote on 4 December, the valorization of cultural heritage is a matter that is assigned to the state, while its promotion is assigned to the local authorities. This approach will produce innumerable conflicts of competence before the Constitutional Court, which will be committed to settle the subtle and very difficult boundary between promotion and valorisation. Returning to the definition of a national monument, we appreciate that the Government has recognised the importance of national legislation and has accepted in the 7th Commission an agenda that consistently governs the declarations of national monuments, since Legislative Decree No 42 of 22 January 2004, better known as the code of cultural goods and landscapes, is limited to providing, in Article 10, only a notion of cultural heritage and to establishing the inalienability of the properties declared national monuments according to the applicable legislation (Article 54 (1) (b). It is also worth considering the belonging of the House Museum to the real estate heritage of the Berlinguer Foundation, which is closely linked to a history and a well-specific political tradition and since next year will be celebrated the eightieth anniversary of the death of Gramsci philosopher, politician and journalist belonging to all Italians, with this bill, the Foundation could gain privileged access to public funds. Therefore, we hope that the Government will quickly prepare, in accordance with the accepted agenda, these rules, establishing a regulatory framework of reference and providing a precise definition of national monuments, in order to avoid limited legislative initiatives such as the one under consideration that, although commendable from the historical and cultural point of view, could also be motivated by other interests, as well as guaranteeing the inalienability of national monuments and the necessary transparency of the financial resources that are allocated to them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u107	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is in indifference that the most tragic facts in our history have been born and consumed. It is not by chance that Antonio Gramsci, with the clear and strong words of those who have experienced firsthand the dramatic evolution of the Nazi-fascist dictatorship, wanted to mean his hatred of the indifferent, because, as Gramsci wrote, "indifference is abulia, it is parasitism, it is cowardice, it is not life." And perhaps today he would have added that it is conformism. That warning, his hostile distance towards the indifferent, remains a lucid teaching also for the historical phase that we live in, in which we try to fight the detachment and disaffection, also aware of the role and responsibilities of politics, but aware that only by good politics, the politics that allows participation, that pushes responsibility and that stimulates passion, can come the contrast to the indifference, that today borders with resignation; aware that politics has an indisputable need to strengthen itself in those fundamental values, freedom and democracy, which are the premise to keep the national community cohesive and perhaps, today, the European one. This is certainly a beating heart of Gramsci's thinking and teaching. For this reason, even in the awareness of the diversity of opinions that can be manifested on the thought of Antonio Gramsci, I think it would be reductive to free only as symbolic the provision on which we were called to express ourselves. For us Sardinian Gramsci is first of all a Sardinian, part of our proud being and feeling people. But we know that Gramsci is a national intellectual, we are aware of that. His thought and work represent an invaluable heritage for our history, our culture and our living in a country that has very clear values of democracy, freedom and anti-fascism and does not want to forget them. Gramsci is part of national culture and a founding part of a thought that has spread beyond national borders. As one colleague recalled, Gramsci is one of the most translated Italian authors in the world. Gramsci is above all a point of reference for those who want to give value to the idea that one can help the formation of the civic consciousness of each individual citizen. His thought makes clear the idea of the purest and most concrete meaning of the concept of political militancy, but also of living, as a simple citizen, at the service of one's own country and community, even in our time. Today, therefore, we are discussing the proposal to declare a national monument the house in which he was born and lived. That house is already a symbol, certainly for all Sardinians but also for all Italians who want to live and breathe the places where he formed. Today's is an opportunity to recognize to that place the importance that Gramsci deserves also for Parliament, that is to say for what represents our institution and for what Gramsci represented as a Member. As has been mentioned, November 8 will be the 90th anniversary of Antonio Gramsci's arrest by the fascist regime. It is a date that must be part of our history and we must make every effort to keep it alive. It reminds us of an act that has affected not only the man himself, but also the institution he represented: that very Parliament which today can restore a part of the dignity raped, with the deprivation of liberty, to Mr Gramsci. The House Museum of Ghilarza represents the place where Gramsci not only lived, but also studied and trained as a man and as a politician. The connection with his land, where he was born and raised, was very strong: you can understand it even if you look at those Quaderni, presented this year in different Italian cities thanks to the contributions of the Fondazione Istituto Gramsci (and I invite colleagues who have not yet had the opportunity to see them), but you can understand it also by coming into contact with that house, with the places, objects and documentation, that not only you can see, but is available to anyone who wants to know well, deeply, the thought of Gramsci. With the measure that we examine today we can give all this an even deeper meaning, recognizing the memory of the places as an ideal space from which to draw lessons for our living in a democratic and free country. We owe it to what Gramsci still represents today and for what it can represent in the future, also thanks to the fact that that house can become, with our vote, a national monument. If this will contribute even a small part to keeping always alive and accessible to everyone what Gramsci has left us as a legacy it will mean that we will have done an act that would be reductive to define symbolic. Finished the ideologies of the twentieth century remains in thought, in its history, in its example, in its life, a teaching on freedom and democracy that deserves to arrive intact to the younger generations. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups, and from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u109	We greet the students and teachers of the middle school "Guglielmo Marconi" in Casalecchio di Reno, in the province of Bologna, rightly named after him. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u110	The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in his reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u111	Mr President, I do not want to repeat what has already been said very well by the rapporteur and my previous colleagues on the historical, intellectual, political and literary importance of Antonio Gramsci and the high symbolic value of this recognition. I would just like to take up a thought that was, also this, very well exposed by Senator Lai in the last speech: a country that does not have a historical memory is a country easily exposed to any kind of extremism, any kind of extremism that can only see any democratic citizen oppose it. And one way to make a real opposition, which is shaved even in future generations, is to keep this historical memory alive. This is why the provision that today is brought to the examination of the Senate takes on meaning, especially in the times we are living, deep, broad and also necessary. I would also like to pick up two requests from Senator Liuzzi and Senator Blundo regarding the need for instruments to be given in order to be able to decide which assets are among the national monuments: what are the criteria, how should we proceed? I would not use the term 'transparency', Senator Blund, because I believe that in the decision that the Senate is preparing to take today there is nothing non-transparent but the recognition of a great and important figure in our history. But it is right to think that our Ministry, even with the help and support of the parliamentary committees, will soon take action to try to define these criteria, to facilitate not only our work in the future, but also the work of Parliament when it is called upon to decide on the definition of a national monument. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u112	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, on the agenda and on the amendment, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u113	Mr President, I would like to explain the G1.1 agenda. The Senate, when examining the draft law n. 2342, declaring the national monument of the House of Gramsci Museum in Ghilarza, said that the recognition of a site's national monument takes on witness value of mnemonic experience; awaited the cultural, historical, political, literary value of the work "Quaderni del conservato," elaborated by Antonio Gramsci in the years 1928-1933 at the holding cell of the Institute of Penalty of Turi, in the Province of Bari; recognized the philosophical, pedagogical, moral, civil intent of the "Quaderni" written in the painful penitentiary condition; commits the Government: to evaluate the possibility of applying the norm for the protection and valorization of the site in the perspective of its qualification as a national monument; to report promptly to Parliament on the implementation of this agenda. [[Applause from the CoR Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u116	STEFANO (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to the agendas of the G100 and G1.1 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u117	The Presidency takes note of this. Senator Boccardi, being Turi's, will also be honored to put his signature on the agenda of Senator Liuzzi. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u118	Mr President, I welcome Senator Liuzzi's G1.1 agenda, which had already been presented and adopted in the same form in the Commission. I also support the G100 agenda by Senator Uras, as I mentioned in my previous speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u119	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u120	You insist on voting on the G100 agenda, Senator Uras? URAS (Mixed). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u123	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, precisely for the recognition of the value and figure of Antonio Gramsci, the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of this agenda. I would like to remind you that the figure of Gramsci is also appreciated by political parties very far from his, as I have been able to ascertain, having attended, both I and Senator Serra, the same high school of Gramsci, that is, the high school "Dectori" of Cagliari, and knowing his fame and appreciation for many years already.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u126	URAS (Mixed). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u127	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G100 agenda, tabled by Senators Uras and Stefano. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I note the unanimous approval of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u130	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before making a noise and leaving the Chamber, I would like to draw your attention to an unheard-of fact that happened on Sunday, when, in the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" (of which Agcom has just authorised the merger with "La Stampa", which seems to me somewhat excessive as an editorial concentration), the news of Scalfari was published that the President of the Republic would vote yes to the referendum on constitutional reform. Now, I hope you will agree with me that this is an unheard-of thing, namely that this news is being given without further clarification, at a time when, in the RAI Monitoring Committee and on other fronts, we are all committed to trying to maintain a balance of information. All I have to do is appeal to the second office of the State to clarify this situation institutionally. We can't live in a country where this thing is said in one of the national newspapers. [[Comments from the PD Group]] and lets everything fall into silence. After the yes to the referendum has already been favored by RAI, Mediaset, Sky, Obama, the European Union, Goldman Sachs, finance and President emeritus Napolitano (who every time he opens his mouth is reported on all the front pages), I find it unheard that there is silence about such a fact, also by the spokesman of the Quirinale, who has not denied the news. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I don't understand how Scalfari allows himself to do such a thing. Not to mention the praise of oligarchy as a form of government, which comes from a person who should come from a certain cultural area. [[Senator Zanda points out that he wants to intervene.]] You also know (Zanda, ask for the word) that the Republic is the Democratic Party's stuff. You should say something, too. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u131	Thank you, Senator Airola, you have expressed your thoughts.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u132	FADELI (PD). President, you must stop him! AIROLA (M5S). You will not get a balance if the sole and superior referee of this nation gets involved in such a thing. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u133	Thank you for your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u136	ZANDA (PD). Mr. President Gasparri... [[Comments of Senator Nugnes. Senator Faithful's protests.]] AIROLA (M5S). What are you yelling at? You're Vice President of the Senate! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let Senator Zanda speak. The interventions at the end of the session, as you can see, are also used with much freedom. Senator Airola, please. ZANDA (PD). Mr President, in this parliamentary term, for the first time in my memory, the practice of late sitting speeches has been established. It is a practice that Parliament had never felt the need for and was - I believe - set up to enable Members to raise issues which cannot be raised during the work of this House. The reasons why we keep this practice are in total contradiction with interventions of vulgarity that characterized the intervention that I have just heard of a senator of the 5 Star Movement [[Applause from the PD and AL-A groups.]] Senator Airola, when he talks about the President of the Republic... AIROLA (M5S). I was talking about Scalfari. ZANDA (PD). ...or President Napolitano, you must rinse your mouth... [[Applause from the PD and AL-A groups. Live comments from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO. (M5S). Answer! Shame! You're a provocateur! ZANDA. (PD).... and this chatter confirms its level. I have to say that if you really think that you are doing a service to the institutions with this vulgarity in the House of Parliament... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). You will be vulgar and you will be vulgar! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo! Please, Senator Zanda, finish, but your speech has been clear. ZANDA (PD). The Group of the Party of European Socialists, which has a relative majority in this Parliament, has never spoken with such chatter, even when very serious and unjustified insults are being made to us from those benches. [[Applause from the PD Group]] ). But it is not acceptable that the Democratic Party cannot speak in this Chamber because it is being interrupted by people in this Parliament all the time without meriting to be there. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . Vivaci [[comments from the M5S Group]] , just because they had 20 clicks on the blog of their movement! That is why they are in Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group. Live comments from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Burns you, huh, Zanda? See you on the 5th!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u137	President Zanda, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the content of the speeches at the end of the sitting is concerned, I have very conservative views. President Zanda, this practice has taken place in the previous parliamentary term. You are an authoritative member of the Conference of Leaders, and you will be able to introduce the subject there. I realize that the speeches at the end of the sitting are a succession of political debates and this is questionable. Having said that, all those in this House deserve to be there, because someone voted to have them: the Presidency can only take note of this. [[Applause from Senator Mangili]] . The Senators of the PD Group approach the Senators of the M5S Group and debate animatedly). President Zanda, if ever you continue the debate in a friendly manner outside the Chamber. CUOMO (PD). President, there is also a Senator Commissioner! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, Senators Quaestors are there, of course, to put order. The speeches at the end of the sitting should be used in a different way. Nor can it be said that colleagues in the Democratic Party cannot take their stand. All of us who chair the work know that the speeches are all taking place, even if sometimes in more problematic conditions. [[Senator Candiani points out that he wants to intervene]] If Senator Candiani did his speech, he would help us close his session, so the colleague will talk to us about Tradate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u140	CASTALDI (M5S). They pay 30,000 euros to get listed and be a congressman! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, let my colleague Candiani speak. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I give up the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-709.ana.u141	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.49 p.m.
