ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 7 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00496 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00511, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators, 1-00543, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, 1-00545, presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, and 1-00550, presented by Senator Sonego and other senators, on the partial privatisation of Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane. As the government representative is not present, I suspend the meeting for five minutes. (The Deputy Minister Morando entered the Chamber). The government representative has arrived, so we can continue with our work. I call Senator De Petris to explain motion No 496 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u9	Madam President, after the adoption of the motions on yesterday's ecobonus, which we consider an important fact for a strategic sector of our economy, today we are going to examine an absolutely fundamental issue for our country and also for the lives of our citizens. I am referring to the question of State Railways. We tabled this motion a long time ago, when, moreover, the Government seemed willing to speed up the privatisation process of the Ferrovie dello Stato company, to the point that it had presented in Parliament the draft Decree No 251 for the acquisition of the opinion. For the truth, at first, many members of the government had also launched enthusiastic and hasty statements about the goodness of the privatisation project of the company. I would like to mention in this regard the announcements of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport about the Government's willingness to start the privatisation procedure with a 40% ceiling, or the statements of the Minister of Economy and Finance Padoan, who argued that the model of valorization and listing of the holding company is the most efficient... [[Brusio.]] Madam President, I will now make five minutes of suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u10	You're right, Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u11	Colleagues, please lower the level of the buzz: so it is impossible to intervene. If you talk to each other, I invite you to do it in a low voice, otherwise Senator De Petris is unable to perform her speech. Please continue, Senator. Let's try again. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Thank you, Madam President. So, after these enthusiastic statements, in my opinion very hasty, there have been numerous parliamentary initiatives - which I would like to remind the representative of the Government - that have held back the government's race to start this process, which needs to be carefully considered in all its aspects, given the centrality of the group in our country and the numerous economic and social repercussions. Beyond everyone's opinion, this should be a matter that is at the heart of Parliament. The data of the company Ferrovie dello Stato speak clearly: the group has about 70,000 employees, the railway line has a certain weight, the data provided by Mediobanca in 2015 identify the group Ferrovie dello Stato as the second Italian company for investments, the fifth for employees, the tenth for profitability and the thirteenth for turnover. Last year, moreover, the Ferrovie dello Stato have conquered the first place in the ranking of the companies in which the young graduates want to work. It is clear that starting a process of privatisation for a society of such importance and strategic importance for our country is an issue that must be absolutely considered. We have very different opinions from those expressed up to now by the Government: I would like to point out that the privatisation processes, as the Italian experience teaches us, certainly cannot be a priori perceived as a guarantee of economic success and greater competitiveness, but they are often fertile ground for operations that are not transparent, that risk damaging the rights of the community in very delicate areas. Precisely in Italy the experience of privatisations tells us that they have always been characterized by a path not only complex, but unfortunately studded with failures and unknowns, in which often there have been intertwined untransparent financial transactions, so the State has almost never benefited, neither from the economic point of view, nor from the point of view of competitiveness. In the case of Ferrovie dello Stato, which represents a strategic sector for the lives of citizens, the logic of privatisation would affect, among other things, a society with enormous industrial potential, which should be guaranteed, instead, also through very intense processes of ecological and technological conversion. Precisely because of the strategic nature of the service offered it is clear that parliamentary control over decisions involving State Railways must be exercised in its full potential, in order to protect the right to mobility of citizens and the substantial asset value of the company. It is absolutely unclear why a company like Ferrovie dello Stato should be privatised. Fast privatisation poses serious risks, especially in terms of safeguarding workers' rights and protection, safety and the proper functioning of the rail system and high-quality services. Not to mention that it is clear that the most desirable part is that of high speed and the rest of the service would be put at serious risk, but it is that which involves 70% of citizens' movements, through commuting around the metropolitan areas. The draft Decree No 251, submitted to the opinion of the Commissions, laying down "the criteria for privatisation and the way in which participation held by the Ministry of Economy and Finance is disposed of," is in our opinion absolutely unclear: it does not contain anything on guarantees to workers, on the safety of travellers and on the maintenance and development of the quality of service. The option of privatising the entire Group, with the possibility that private individuals can, therefore, also control the companies that hold the network and the infrastructure that offers the public service, risks, moreover, creating a dangerous and harmful precedent. It is therefore necessary, in our view, that the entire privatisation project should be assessed by the Chambers, in a precise and detailed manner, in its economic, industrial, employment and social aspects and implications. The Government, instead of a vague scheme of decree, should be able to produce a report that evaluates the financial and industrial effects of the alienation of Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane SpA on the state budget and the lower dividends consequently paid. On the contrary, this draft decree does not carry in detail a discipline of complete alienation, both in the phase of maintaining a share of public control in the capital, and in relation to any determinations relating to the public offer of sale. Minister Padoan's statements about the potential interest of institutional investors, including international investors, are not accompanied by either data or clear information. The CEO of the Group has, in contrast, announced in the first days of February that the listing on the FS Stock Exchange will be postponed at least to 2017, requiring long times and certainty regarding some unresolved nodes. Minister Delrio himself in an interview with the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" recently confirmed that the privatisation of FS by the end of 2016 seems rather complicated. Moreover, over the last few months some parliamentary acts have intervened on the issue of privatization; we point out the motion approved in December 2015 to the Chamber of Deputies, which committed the Government to abstain immediately from the placing on the market of public shares pertaining to the Italian State Railways Group S.p.a. In the two branches of the Parliament opinions were approved on the above-mentioned draft decree of the Government n. 251 and the Commission 8a of the Senate requested, among other things, that full and timely application be given to the motions approved to the Chamber of Deputies, in the sense that the Government, before proceeding to the effective placing on the market of the shares of Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane SpA, inform the Parliament promptly about some issues: the modalities that will be adopted definitively, with particular regard to the technical solutions chosen for the maintenance of the public ownership of the railway infrastructure; the new industrial plan; possible legislative or regulatory measures that can affect the sectors of activity. To date, therefore, the Government has not yet sent to the Chambers anything that really deepens the question of privatization and for this reason, with this motion, we ask to consider in depth the real opportunity to proceed to the privatization of a sector so delicate on the social plane, as central to the economic one and, before adopting definitively the schema of decree n. 251, not to exclude a priori - as requested also from the Commission finances of 13 January 2016 - the destination for quotas, verified the total volume of the revenues, also to measures directed to the infrastructural investments on the railway net, requalifying the regional transport networks. It is clear to everyone that the central issue raised by this motion is the invitation to the Government to reconsider - or rather to consider - the actual opportunity to proceed towards the privatisation process in an area that we consider strategic for the future of the country. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u12	I call Senator Crosio to explain motion No 511.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u13	Madam President, I think it is appropriate to stress at once our concern about this important step that our country could be called upon to take in the near future, namely the privatisation of Ferrovie. We are concerned for several reasons. First of all, I note that as soon as we read the draft decree of the President of the Council of Ministers arrived at the Commission we immediately understood that something was not working. With all the respect that I certainly have for Deputy Minister Morando, who sits in the benches of the government, it is proof of the fact that we consider quite abnormal that the Deputy Minister is not accompanied by his colleague, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Nencini. We are aware, representative of the Government, that it is the Minister of Economy and Finance that has the share package - so you will be the ones to sell and privatise this share - but we believe, Mr. Deputy Minister, not being refractory to privatization, in this case of the railways - that this can be an opportunity to seize. Perhaps we should start with a slogan: privatisation should be an opportunity to relaunch the country's rail transport system. Our transport system needs to be revived, it needs planning, an industrial plan, because something is not working. As a country we have invested important and substantial resources in high speed. In fact, we can certainly say that the Italian high-speed system is comparable in quality to that of other European countries. The transport of goods, high capacity and local public transport are quite different, which has been very backward in recent years. It is therefore quite clear that in privatisation we should have the capacity, the willingness to make a real relaunch of our railways. That is what we express our strong concern about. I do not think it is a mystery that in the 8th Commission we had the pleasure of hearing the two Ministers involved in this important game, the Minister of Economics Padoan and the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Delrio, who spoke of two different worlds, of two different philosophies. In this sense, I officially declare that I am part of Delrio's current, in the sense that Minister Padoan has come to the Commission to say that it is necessary to privatise Railways in order to make cash. So much for the revival and the opportunity for development! Does Europe ask us that? Maybe. Does it have to be done? It may be, but I did not think it was quite out of place to mention anything else and to have this approach with the Commission that was so rigid and aseptic. Twenty-four hours later, Minister Delrio told us something else, exactly what I am saying, namely that perhaps privatisation should be an opportunity to relaunch and develop the railway sector. In this regard, our hope is that we will go in this direction and, in essence, our motion contains this point of view, this philosophy, to be applied as a slogan in order to privatise the railways. We believe that it should be prevented from being just an economic and financial operation, and instead we must ensure that it becomes a moment of growth and development for the whole rail transport system. A possible privatisation should be accompanied by specific clauses to safeguard the quality of the service offered to the users and I believe this is very important because over the years we have seen that, despite the company has benefited from considerable public contributions, the same has not really invested in improving the quality of the services of railway transport and the managerial performances, accumulate, in these years, a gap regarding the competitors, that today represents an obstacle to the competitive development of the field of the transports both of the goods and of the passengers. Unfortunately, it is in evidence. In this country, beyond the high speed we build mainly roads and, as some people say much better than us in planning a very modern transport system "who sows roads collect traffic". This is quite clear: we continue to sow roads and collect traffic, especially for goods and we are not able to see the evidence of the facts. On June 1, a country, Switzerland, from this point of view much more evolved than ours, will inaugurate an extraordinary railway work that will impact heavily on our life, which is Alp Transit, the tunnel of the Gottardo that, when it goes to regime, with the basic tunnel of Mount Ceneri, the railway of Gambarogno and what else will generate 700 trains a day, that is an extraordinary thing. In the programming someone has thrown the eye, for example, also to the port of Genoa that becomes strategic, especially now thanks to this great plan, that it has involved also the Suez Canal. Some think, probably, that transporting goods on the motorways of the sea from Genoa to the East is much easier and more profitable than going to Rotterdam to make them do all the "goose tour." However, we do not know how to grasp these opportunities and messages that also come from those who, in Europe, do not have a localistic and shortsighted vision like ours of the transport system. That worries us a lot. In fact, in our motion we make it clear that it is essential that the privatisation that is taking place does not hinder the agreements, among other things, already in place, aimed at strengthening the trans-European lines such as, in particular, the strengthening of the Gotthard trainer. Moreover, I will never tire of breaking the boxes because Delrio promised us that the famous line Arcisate-Stabio will see the light shortly. We hope that this birth will give us something positive, but, except jokes, we have a cahier of international commitments and we must be ready, in our opinion, to seize the great opportunity that our country will have. It remains quite clear that privatisations in Italy have always divided public opinion for the many unknowns and for the interests that can arise from them that do not always meet criteria of greater efficiency and competitiveness, both risking not to bring real benefits to users and putting at risk the universality of the service that, although managed by private individuals, plays a role of fundamental importance to the public. For this reason, among the four commitments that we ask the Government with this motion, first of all we ask to clarify what are the real revenues expected from this operation so that the same can be used in favor of local public transport. I already know the answer from the Deputy Minister who will tell us that we have to do something else. All right, we have to do something else, but we would also like the Government, given that Prime Minister Renzi himself says he wants a business that works and a Europe that does not have to give us orders, to be stronger. Yet Minister Padoan has not said a word; and there is no point in telling me this, Mr Vice-Minister, because you cannot come to the Commission and say so aseptically that we must cash in. That is not the case, because if a person does the local administrator, as I have done, and deals with transport - here there are also governors who know what it means - he knows that citizens, rightly, break their boxes every morning because they want to be more efficient. We therefore believe that this is the appropriate opportunity. Among other things, we also call for more information, Mr. Deputy Minister, so that we do not run the risk of losing to private property the assets to greater profitability and remain in public hands the non-economic business branches. The market failure branches do not want anyone; those where there is the "chid" instead all want them: it is a bit like telecommunications. That's enough. The government has to take the helm and have a direction. In addition to asking for this, we ask that the commitments made in our country also for the trans-European lines be honoured. Perhaps our motion might seem excessively detailed on some points, but it must be taken by the Government, because it is an opportunity of stimulus (we must have this slogan), to relaunch a sector that unfortunately in recent years has seen its total abandonment and decadence [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u14	I call Senator Scibona to explain motion No 543.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u15	Madam President, once again we are debating the privatisation and therefore the transfer to private individuals of important assets in our country. A short time ago we dealt with Poste Italiane, today we deal with the Ferrovie dello Stato group, and tomorrow? Let us hope that there is no, or at least that we can go to elections and that we can govern someone who cares about the public heritage. Maybe us? Therefore, in my reasoning I want to start from the very comparison between these two realities. In fact, both are concessionaires of public utility services and are called to guarantee a universal service and for this purpose they have received and receive public money to create, maintain and improve their infrastructure. While it is true that universal postal service, thanks to the new Internet technologies, e-mail and smartkey (whoever has the most, most puts them), is theoretically surpassable, provided that they invest in addition to broadband also in the culture of digital (in fact the peripheral parts of the State that already enjoy the political innovations of the Government and receive the mail every other day coincide mostly with those that are lacking in broadband in order to be able to cope with the abandonment of the universal postal service), such reasoning cannot be borrowed on the railway transport. The railroad, even if so much distracted, still represents the only present dorsal that unites Italy from North to South, that realizes, in fact, with the public mobility, that unity of Italy desired from our ancestors. Now you want to dismantle it. The Government proposes to us a plan of privatization lacking in many parts, without guarantees of safeguard of the service, but even worse wandering on the objective that is aimed at with the privatization. The error starts from the principle that it is useless to privatise Railways (but also for other public utilities) in order to pour the proceeds into the fund of depreciation of the public debt. Mr Padoan told us clearly in the 8th Commission - and some of his colleagues have reminded us before me - that the sale, pardon the valorization of Poste, has affected 0.4% of the Italian deficit. Great result. Obviously Delrio, the next day, immediately denied this version and took a little more time. What are the results? For example, in the newspapers we learned a few days ago that in Emilia-Romagna the letters are delivered every other day and in the warehouses are accumulating parcels, mountains of correspondence. What if there were abandoned trains in the depots instead of the letters? In the history of our country we are again faced with securitisation, which objectively constitute a wrong choice to resolve a political error. They are the road that will lead us again to have to pay money into public debt without solving anything, or even increasing the discomfort to the citizens. The matter will be repeated and in a few years we will again be forced to sell other pieces of the state, at least as long as there are still some. After that? The consequences of the privatizations of the 1990s do not make us hope for the future. In fact, on that occasion too, we wanted to cash in and we did not start a decisive process at the same time, it was also a process of liberalisation of the markets, certainly not wanted by us, but much praised and never implemented by the successive Governments in the following years, in which the societies themselves operated. The consequences of those choices have resulted, over the years, in delays and distortions in the liberalisation of markets, on the one hand, and in the progressive cutting of services, on the other hand, with the inevitable disadvantages that have resulted for citizens. Returning to the via ferrata the only acceptable privatization, obviously of the service and not of the line, the infrastructure and the buildings functional to it, would be that whose proceeds are destined to the revival of the railway field, therefore with the objective to favor the reorganization of the segments today more lacking, such the local public transport and the transport goods on iron as alternative to rubber, accompanied by an extended modernization of the line and the recovery of efficiency of the services. To understand, we could accept a partial privatization by opening up to private managers the public infrastructure provided to implement and finally double and electrify all the railway lines of Italy still standing still, the ones stopped (not like someone else, which is defined historical) to the last century, but we do not accept to privatise to throw a drop in the sea of the public debt, and then find ourselves "cooked and bunched" without services, without funds and without property. This is the general approach of beliefs and reasoning that drives us to table this motion against privatisation. However, there are other more compelling reasons, which are dictated by government texts and government statements. There is concern about the ownership of the railway infrastructure, i.e. the line. While reassuring words have been expressed, it has not yet been understood whether RFI will be disembedded by the FS group, whether only a few companies of the group will be privatised, whether there will be corporate changes before privatisation and much more. In fact, the scheme of decree has an extremely synthetic content and a limited level of detail regarding the concrete modalities of realization of the process of alienation of the participation, not clarifying, first of all, whether the intention is to place on the market a share of the entire holding of Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane SpA or individual segments of activity and how this, from the point of view of society, can take place. It is therefore not even able to understand what the actual corporate perimeter is to be privatised and to assess what the economic and financial value of this transaction could be. Actually, we're also worried about splashing, stalling. We would not want this expectation, this laissez faire, laissez passer, not to be an escamotage in order to be able to suck again that public money and to make attractive for the private a part, more economically spendable, of the Railways (good and bad company are school). Finally, I would like to launch a reflection, a reflection focused on the citizens, on the users of the service, who are then those who keep the State, the Government and also pay our salary, ladies and gentlemen, with their own work and taxes. We can already notice that in the last twenty years the Italian State has invested massively to realize the high-speed/high-capacity network (AV/AC), but I save you all those technical notes that indicate that it is absolutely impossible to mix high-speed and high-capacity. Over the years, some €28 billion has been spent and there are plans and intentions for a total expenditure, to date, of about 40 billion more. All money drained to the traditional lines, those that every day, throughout Italy, millions of people use - or rather, they would like to use - to go to school and work. This state has managed to create a country at two speeds: on the one hand the high-speed trains that connect the main destinations (Rome, Milan, Naples, Salerno, Turin, Venice) with an increasingly wide offer, articulated and increasingly profitable for the operators and therefore expensive for the citizen; a fast journey of the long distances that, to prevent it being elitist and therefore not profitable, has been accompanied by a progressive elimination of traditional long-distance services, practically non-existent since there are now few intercity nights to connect the North with South Italy; then there is the jungle of regional trains, studded with "carri cattle" to envy the third world. As for the other side, I don't have to be here to tell you the conditions that you can easily imagine, I don't say attending it - it's never - but also reading the daily local news. You travel too often between cuts of resources, suppression of races, delays and disservices; this is when you are lucky: when it goes bad even with rain, ticks and broken doors or suppressions of the last minute and so on. These voyages of hope are associated with more than 1,189 kilometers of railway network called "historical" now closed, because one could not profit, with good peace of the public services for the citizens that that infrastructure had helped to realize with the payment of the taxes. The policy announces that, after the privatization, Ferrovie dello Stato will in any case have to ensure compliance with the obligations of the universal public service, with particular regard to the quality and efficiency of the local public transport. To say the least, it seems imaginative: he has not done so until today, how will he be able to do so tomorrow if he has to increase the remuneration to satisfy the private investor? There are too many questions in this privatisation, too many issues to be resolved and answers to be given. We cannot privatise so sic et simpliciter; we are for public infrastructure, but if we really want to privatise, there must be at least one overall plan of rail transport that combines free market to guarantee services. This isn't here today. Let us stop and open a phase of confrontation between all the parties involved, perhaps also a legislative project that lays the foundations for the rethinking of the Italian rail transport system centered on the service to the commuter, that is to say to the citizen, and on the local public transport. We know the proverb on the hasty cat; it is not appropriate to cash on the shoulders of the citizens: Just think about it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u16	I call Senator Gibiino to explain motion No 545.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u17	Madam President, rail liberalisation has introduced in the various European countries the principle that a plurality of operators use the same railway infrastructure, adapting to the principles of economic liberalism. This process began, as you know, with the adoption of Directive 440 of the Council of the European Communities of 1991 recognising the need for greater integration of the European rail system into an increasingly competitive market. The Directive also sets out the important distinction between the operation of transport services and infrastructure management, identifying the need to manage these two areas separately in order to promote the future development and efficiency of the Community's railways. Rail transport is an efficient way for the European Union to move, with less pollution impact. In Italy, however, it remains a mode of movement less used than the other more polluting ones, such as road transport. The lack of rail connections or train-bus and train-water transport combinations discourage the person in the use of the railway network. At the end of 2008, following the liberalisation process, there were 56 railway undertakings licensed by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport; 27 were in possession of the safety certificate; 20 were active track contracts. On the network of the Italian railway network manager (RFI) had produced a transport offer of 337,8 million railway kilometers; of these, 326,4 million were realized by Trenitalia and only 10,7 million are to be attributed to third-party operators. With regard to transport, the failure to realize important infrastructure works and the use, anything but rational, of those already existing has determined, according to the ratio of Confcommercio (published in 2013), a damage to the Country, that for the period 2000-2012 has been quantified in approximately 24 billion euros of loss of gross domestic product. A loss of economic resources due not only to infrastructures never realized, but also to an inability, not will or indifference to make the best of the existing. Italy has not been able to efficiently connect existing networks, it has not effectively reformed the harbour structures, also tourist, the interporti and the logistic platforms. A lack of capacity of many Regions to use the available Community resources and to use the allocated state resources for the designated purposes has determined areas of the Country with an unjustifiable infrastructure deficiency, which has also led to a brake on the possibility of attracting foreign investments and increasing tourist flows outside the usual routes. On this point it is recalled that local rail services at regional level on the RFI state network remain the exclusive competence of the Regions, which entrust them on the basis of service contracts to railway undertakings. This clarification is necessary in order to understand that the efficiency of the railway transport, and the interconnection of the Country, depends not only on the railway group of the State but that it is the task of each Region to realize an infrastructural and transport reality adapted to the satisfaction of the demand. The resulting question is whether the regions are able to respond effectively to what is their responsibility in terms of transport. In DEF 2014, the Government expressed its intention to implement a privatisation plan through the disposal of holdings in subsidiaries also indirectly by the State. The Government has sent to the Chambers, for the acquisition of the opinion by the competent Commissions, the act n. 251, with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers defining the criteria of privatization and the modalities of disposal of the participation held by the Ministry of Economy and Finance in the capital of Ferrovie dello Stato SpA. The main aim of the act is to: define the methods of privatisation and placement on the market of the participation held by the State, which is currently equal to 100%; specify that, in the choice of how to carry out the privatization, the objectives of the widespread share ownership and the stability of the ownership, also in view of the protection of the characteristics of service of public utility of the activity carried out by the group; specify that the opening to other shareholders of the capital of the company is accompanied by the allocation to the State of the ownership of the railway infrastructure and that the manager of the railway infrastructure must continue to guarantee to all the operators fair and non-discriminatory access to the infrastructure itself; without prejudice to the maintenance, by the Ministry of the economy, of a participation in the capital of Railways of the Italian State not less than 60%; provide that the sale of the share of public participation may be carried out in several stages, through a public offer of sale that may be addressed to the public of the savers in Italy, to the employees of the railway group of the Italian State and to Italian and to Italian and international investors. The opinion of the 8th Permanent Commission, approved on 19 January 2016, highlighted: how the draft decree had an extremely synthetic content and did not address the most important details and aspects of the privatisation operation; that the Government had reserved itself to define at a later stage the particularly important aspect of the choice of placing on the market a share of the entire holding company of Ferrovie dello Stato or individual segments of activity; the non-explicit technical mode through which it is intended to ensure the maintenance of the public ownership of the railway infrastructure, especially if the Government decides not to proceed to an effective corporate separation of the RFI manager from the rest of the group; the need to ensure the conservation, within the group, of the remarkable technical and managerial know-how of RFI in the matter of maintenance, development and safety of railway networks, which, as we know, represents an international excellence and one of the fundamental assets of the company; the fact that Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane SpA manages a critical infrastructure, as defined in the directive of the European Union 2008/114/CE, transposed in the Italian law by Decree No 61 of 2011, with the consequent repercussions on national security. We also highlight that the plan to privatise the Italian State Railways Group has been supported by the Government as a way to bring economic resources into the state budget and improve the quality of service through the presence of private capital. The group records an organic plant of about 70,000 employees. The reorganization of the company that will occur necessarily requires a careful ex ante evaluation of what it will entail in terms of personnel, that is, if negative social repercussions can occur (in practical terms: dismissals). We remember that, in the course of an informal audition that has been carried out in March 2016, the managing director of the railway group of the State Renato Mazzoncini has specified to pursue like group a company strategy aimed to transform the Railways of the State from railway transport company in a company of mobility. It is in these days an interest on the part of ANAS to merge within the State Railways and a willingness of the Government to make a wide operation in line with what said, with the creation of a company of mobility. The managing director has moreover emphasized the opportunity to leave the profits in the Railways and to invest them in the industrial plan and the will to create a pole of the goods, with the spin off of the cargo division, creating Mercitalia, a new society in which to put all the realities of the field, so that the customers can have a single interlocutor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Gibiino. GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). The managing director has added to be interested as a group to a possible acquisition of all that concerns the public transport. Therefore - and I am going to conclude - our motion commits the Government: to provide an analysis, with estimates and simulations, of the possible scenarios deriving from a privatization of the group and of the benefits deriving from the privatization of a strategic public company of national character that produces profits; taking into account its propensity to privatization, to provide the Chambers with a document that illustrates all the initiatives that it considers opportune to start in order to ensure that the operation of privatization favors the development of the railway transport of passengers and goods, with the consequent positive consequences in terms of employment and industrial; to establish that some of the resources deriving from the eventual privatization are bound to realize direct measures to the structural investments on the railway network, requalifying the networks of regional and local transport and of goods, to overcome the technological gap between high speed and high capacity to the North and infrastructural network to the South and to carry out the high speed and high capacity net also in the South Italy, with particular attention to the greater islands (we particularly to this point); finally, to identify and to adopt the initiatives that they can afford the finding of ulterior financial resources and the quality of the railway services that they are of transport that they have likes that they are of public service and they are turned to the services of public and they are destined to the services of which they are destined to the goods, and they are destined to the services of which they are destined to the railway ones for the transports and they are destined to which they are destined to the transport of which they are destined to the goods. ( [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u18	I call Senator Sonego to explain motion No 550.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments on the motion on which I am a co-signator and on which other Members will also speak. First of all, I would like to say that the Government's intention to privatise, up to 40% of the total, the Italian Ferrovie dello Stato Group is a shared intention, which deserves all the parliamentary support. This is an initiative on which I am going to say something, not before, however, that we have pointed out that we are talking about a large European group which, in recent years, has demonstrated the uncommon ability to successfully start a process of economic, financial and efficiency recovery. Therefore, the framework in which we are discussing today's subject is the positive one, which I have just referred to. We are talking about a process of privatization (up to 40%, as has been said) to which we object from several parts that the model to refer for the future transport and railway of our Country is not that indicated by the Government with the privatization, but - if anything - that of the French Republic with the Société Nationale des Chemins de fer Français (SNCF), that it is a great group totally integrated. I note that the strategy and the point of reference represented from SNCF are today the indicator of the crisis of an old European railway system. The French model is heavily in crisis, in a condition of forethought for economic and financial reasons, but also because it is a cause of great dissatisfaction on the part of users. Therefore - and I would like to clarify this at once to those who dispute, on the basis of this reference, the proposal for privatisation - it is no longer reasonable to refer to the French model. So, in summary, yes to privatisation for two reasons. Firstly, because it is one of the means by which we can make a contribution, not decisive but nevertheless useful in addressing the issue of the state's debt stock (not a secondary issue). If we had taken care of this problem in the past years, today we would also discuss in a different way the issue relating to Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane. Therefore, it is good that we address the problem of privatisation by also having in mind the problem of debt. However, the prevailing reason for saying yes to privatisation is that it constitutes an important lever, to be used to the full, for the modernization of rail transport and, therefore, of the country. We must be aware that the future Italian and European railway is increasingly in the context of market liberalisation and full exposure to it. To be ready for this challenge, the Italian State Railways Group can only benefit from the presence within it of private investors and shareholders who will contribute significantly to ensure that this large industrial group, which has a great economic and social impact on the country's life, has, tomorrow even more than today, a market oriented attitude. Therefore, the privatisation we are talking about is a contribution to the modernization not only of that group, but also of the country. Allow me to make two final points. The Government's option to keep the rail infrastructure network fully public to protect its independence and to facilitate its possible use by all railway operators, without discrimination, is widely appreciated. I would add more: the Government must be vigorously encouraged with respect to the option - which shadows, but which has not yet completed definitively - concerning the total separation, including corporate, of the network from the Group. Back to the case of Société Nationale des Chemins de fer Français. One of the reasons why that large European railway agglomeration is in deep crisis is precisely the total integration of infrastructure into the group, i.e. the total integration of infrastructure and railway service. We, having at heart the future railway of the Country and the efficiency of the transport, must take the final step thinking of a complete corporate separation. In the course of the drafting of the necessary industrial plan of the group, to which the management and the Government are working together - they provide you jointly because it is a task that concerns the management but also the shareholder: the strategies compete to the shareholder in the companies, also the public ones - it will be well to put strongly the emphasis on the necessity that the railway group of the Italian State becomes more and more a multinational group. Steps forward in this direction there have been, especially with regard to the transport of goods, but they are still insufficient and the Italian State Railways Group must become to all intents and purposes a large multinational group, a great European continental player of the transport. The challenge lies in these great options. I do not dwell on other aspects of the motion because other Members, who are signatories to it with me, will speak in the course of the debate. Finally, I would like to point out a trivial but not irrelevant error of transcription in the text of the motion of which I am co-signatorial: in point 2 after the words "service obligation" there goes a comma that has been lost by doing but which gives a different meaning to the text of the motion. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u20	I would like to say that the G1 agenda has been presented, which has already been printed and distributed, which Senator Candiani has asked to explain. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u21	Madam President, the G1 agenda is linked to the motion tabled by the North League, which provides for the Government's commitment to ensure that revenues from the transfer of State Railways can be used for local public transport. President, each Region deserves a specific chapter and motion because the Italian railway system, off the main line of the high speed, needs considerable investment in many regions. In many cases, structures dating back to the 20th century are even in front of us. With this order of the day I bring to the attention of the Assembly the situation of the Umbria Region, that in the specific case is a paradoxical reality: to the center of Italy but totally disconnected regarding the main guidelines of high speed and, for a few days, even with an airport inaugurated in 2012, cost 50 million euros, substantially empty and left to itself. The agenda asks the Government for the commitment to consider that the plan, which will necessarily have to be designed with those who were to acquire the shares in cession of the State Railways, also includes investments on the director Orte-Foligno-Ancona and, still, in the specific case, going to requalify the railway connection system that a Region is not able to manage on its own. It is natural, Madam President, that if there is investment in infrastructure, there can also be a beneficial impact on the economic fabric and on the territory. The same Region Umbria, which has a great tourist potential, is difficult to connect with the capital. Therefore, the agenda G1 asks the Government to accompany the plan of transfer of the public shares of the Italian State Railways with an adequate investment plan to support and finance projects of redevelopment at high speed of the existing Orte-Foligno-Ancona connection, and development of the secondary railway transport network of the Umbria Region (former FCU), recently acquired by Busitalia, completing at least the electrification and renewal of the traveling rolling stock. You could make the same speech for the other Regions, but in this case we want to bring the example of a Region that has a strong tourist potential, which has a strong propensity to attract, but whose connections are difficult. And when connections are difficult, the economy suffers. We also attach to this the dramatic figure of the loss of 8.5 percent of gross domestic product suffered by the Region, compared to the previous three-year period in which the other Regions had a much less than half of this figure. The government is therefore committed to this field and to this example. We are talking in fact of a reality that would allow to connect the Adriatic with the Tyrrhenian and the Central Regions of Italy, that today are substantially marginalized regarding the main railway connection to high speed. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u22	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Borioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u23	Madam President, Mr Morando, I rise after Mr Sonego has explained the motion on which I am co-signatory, along with other colleagues from the PD Group. I shall therefore begin by saying that I am broadly in agreement with what Mr Sonego has said, and I shall confine myself to highlighting certain aspects with this speech. Let me make one premise: I find it a bit curious and, in some respects, paradoxical that, when we discuss privatisations (it has happened also in this case), sometimes some colleagues detect, almost as if it were a kind of distraction of public resources or a liquidation without meaning, the fact that it attaches among the objectives of privatizations also that to recover resources, to fill the gap of the public debt, as if it were not that, in reality, the structural problem with which the country has to deal, in order to free, in the multiannual programming of the resources, also quotas of availability to be allocated to the various services to which the country has to face, including the railway public transport service. Having said that, it seems to me that, in fact, as far as we have been able to know from the representatives of the Government, during the hearings prior to the expression of the opinion issued by the 8th Commission public works, communications on the act by which the Government proposes the partial privatization of the group, the Government has always illustrated us a plan that holds together the two legs and the two objectives connected to the plan of privatization: on the one hand, the objective to recover resources to fill one part of the public debt and, on the other, that to revive, through a coherent industrial plan, the profile and the ability to return services and economic perspectives to the country. Of course, this is precisely the bet and the encouragement that, with some stakes that have been highlighted here, I think it would be useful for the House to point out to the Government that it is going along this path. We know that it has been decided to take some more time, as in some way also the new summits of the railway group have evidenced, also in order to define a coherent industrial plan, on which to base the process of privatization. I therefore welcome all the steps, including parliamentary discussions in the relevant Commissions, which will have to follow the course of this process; but I believe that the objective is absolutely useful and indispensable. What are the Group's industrial prospects, also thanks to the work done in previous years on the rehabilitation and redevelopment of the railway network, especially through the launch of the high-speed system, they tell us, also on the front of the internationalization that recalled before my colleague Casson, the agreements signed a few days ago in Iran, which speak for the FS group of an investment perspective of several billions of euros on the front of both the realization of the Iranian high-speed system and the total restyling of the railway system. This is one of the factors which, in my opinion, are particularly significant for the perspective of a group, which, of course, in recent years, together with the many progress made, especially highlighted in the qualification of a high-speed system (which I believe is envied by us, rightly, from all over the world), has recorded instead, in particular on the front of goods transport and universal transport both of national and regional rank, the remarkable signs of decline that today must be recovered, also valorizing the process of privatization. In order for this to happen, it is, of course, necessary to pursue what Mr Sonego mentioned earlier: we need the privatisation process to be strictly combined with a process of liberalisation, especially on the services front, which can of course be achieved if certain conditions are fulfilled upstream. The first: the maintenance of public ownership (from this point of view, the signals arrived from both Minister Padoan and Minister Delrio were rather clear) of the network and assets, which is another thing compared to the possible transfer of a share of RFI, as a network operator, to private subjects. The maintenance of ownership by the public is other from the possible transfer of a share to private individuals of the company that will have the task of managing the network. From the progressive separation between the management of the network and the management of the exercise, then, derives the ability, that it must fall on the society that will have the task to manage the services, to confront openly with the market (which up to now, in reality, has never happened and this is an ulterior element that I want to emphasize). The other condition, therefore, concerns the ability to bring back to the net - and therefore to the availability of the market - all those assets (railway ports, pieces of network, technological plants) that over the course of time have been, in my opinion, inappropriately transferred from the property of the company that has in management the net to the property of the companies that instead carry out the exercise, polluting the possibility of an effective access of the competitors present on the market to the performance of the services, with all the positive repercussions that can derive. In my opinion, therefore, if the process is maintained within these pillars it can be largely positive. I hope that, with a speedier definition of a new industrial plan for the Group, we can move in the direction that the Government wants and that I believe Parliament has the opportunity and, in my opinion, also the duty to support, for the good of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u25	Madam President, we are faced with an announced privatisation: the disposal of quotas for an important part of the State, the national railways which are binding on the Ferrovie dello Stato SpA group. In this regard, the classical image of the track revolves around: an axis is represented by a centuries-old network, remained almost the same, in extension, from the times of its monumental construction, begun in the second half of the nineteenth century and ended around the beginning of the twentieth century, although rebuilt by the ruins of the Second World War; another is represented by the State, which in that work put monumental capitals and in the huge costs of management committed the savings of the Italians, that is the physical and mental labors of a people and its generations. The privatization announced, therefore, brings with it the plastic idea of national history; it comes as a metaphor of our slow decisions, of our precarious ambitions and of Italy that we would like and that we do not have; of Italy that we would like to be and that we are not. This concerns all governments, particularly those of the last two decades. There is no doubt that now it seems convenient, appropriate to start - and healthy for the fate of our nation - a process of privatisation, i.e. the gradual removal of the State from a service essential to the functioning of the nation: transport, the mobility of citizens and goods. The more or less official statements show that 2016 will not be the year of partial disposal, and the announcement will therefore become vain and vague. We would like it to be a process more involved, less smoky, less foggy about the future of our important infrastructure, what really has done in the last 150 years the unity of Italy through a universal service that travels by rail. We will proceed to the disposal of quotas of this universal service, and therefore indispensable, to make cash, to partially heal the public debt, to affect the kingmakers of international finance so that we do not declassify, do not lower the already misplaced rating. We must, therefore, have clear ideas and demand clarity of ideas from the Government to Parliament at the summits of Railways; draw credible scenarios, glimpse and glimpse to stakeholders future visions in the short, medium and long term. What will happen to public transport in Italy as a result of the partial privatisation? A new governance is required, but we have no news of it. It is therefore necessary to promote a serious political and parliamentary debate, based on reliable data, from estimates and simulations based on an in-depth examination of the consequences and possible outcomes of the privatisation itself, relating to the maintenance and development of the quality of the local and regional public service offer, in the framework of the enhancement of the safety of users and workers, the revitalization and the efficiency of the transport of goods, with a view to the ecological conversion that progressively diminishes the transport of rubber; to the promotion of investments aimed at filling the railway infrastructure gap, still indecent in 2016, that divides the Mezzogiorno from the rest of the country, with particular reference to the high speed and the high capacity, the doubling of the lines and the modernization of the rolling stock. Not only the southern populations, the civil and political communities of the Mezzogiorno - with particular regard to the industrial, agri-food and tourist system of the South - would be happy if the process of partial exit of the State from the transport system in Italy had the development of this neglected area of the Country as a polar star, guide and virtuous path. The entire national community would rejoice, aware that the South cannot be the ball at the foot of the attempted development, but fast, efficient, comfortable connections below the Volturno can and must represent the flywheel throughout the country, facilitating processes of social inclusion and giving opportunities to all. [[Applause from Senators Boccardi and Perrone]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u26	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today I am speaking about the motions relating to the privatisation of Ferrovie dello Stato, with the aim of bringing to the attention of all only a signal and a proposal on a couple of different aspects which, in my opinion, deserve to be properly considered and evaluated. As the Anglo-Saxons would say, may I add my two cents in the interesting discussion in progress. The first aspect to note is that Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane SpA operates a critical infrastructure as defined in Directive 2008/114/EC, transposed by Legislative Decree no. 61 of 11 April 2011. A different corporate structure, a transfer of shares to one or more private individuals should also be assessed in view of the impact they might have on national security. I would remind you that the directive requires that all ECIs (European Critical Infrastructures) should have security plans for operators or equivalent measures, including identifying important structures, risk assessment and identifying, selecting and prioritising countermeasures and procedures. In the current terrorist threat scenario, the impact of a non-public property no longer fully public, of a public limited company that for just privatistic criteria privileges profit could have less consideration of critical aspects than being an ECI entails. I believe that in the various considerations that the Government will make in this regard it is necessary to take due account of this report. The second point, as I said, is a proposal. In the privatisation process, employee benefits were provided for the purchase of shares. My idea is that, in relation to the offer of sale to investors, specific incentives could also be envisaged in favour of the supplementary pension fund of the employees of the Group, in order to have its qualified presence on the board of directors with consequent participation in the managerial choices of its associates, that is, the employees of Ferrovie dello Stato SpA. This would somehow lead to a form of application of Article 46 of the Constitution, which states - and I quote - that the Republic recognizes the right of workers to cooperate, in the manner and within the limits laid down by law, in the management of undertakings. Another consideration that could be made on my proposal is its analogy with the model of partnership experienced in Germany. As you know, in Germany workers' representatives sit on company boards and with my proposal, through the representative of the social security fund, we would do the same. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u28	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u29	Madam President, when I began my speech on the motions for partial privatisation of the Italian State Railways, I was obliged to mention this subject because of the consistency of the Sardinian railway network. It is known to all that we are talking about an absolutely obsolete railway network in both infrastructure and means, as well as an operation scheduled for 2018 of total abandonment of Trenitalia - Ferrovie dello Stato of one of the Italian regions, as we are still defined within the official documents and constitutional order of this country. We would be part of Europe and also - I do not know if consequently - part of Italy. We would and should be totally and partially so, because reality such as ours is not in the state's view because of mobility services. And I am not talking now about those to and from Sardinia, because they are disastrous; I am not talking about those aircraft, absolutely inadequate and insufficient compared to the demand; I am not talking about ship connections. I speak of the internal connections, the movements of goods and the internal mobility of the people in Sardinia, with a railway system that counts almost insignificant stretches: a connection Cagliari-Sassari that passes through Oristano, along the dorsal of the state road 131, and a connection that goes to Olbia to connect one of the airports and one of the ports of the Island, passing through the Nuorese of the Island. I say this because in our Constitution there is a principle of equality - let us forget that of the right to mobility - whereby all citizens must be placed in the same condition and, where there are obstacles that prevent equal opportunities, they must be removed and not increased. I say this to the Government in a special way for this matter, because we cannot be a private Region of an adequate internal system of railway connection. So, rather than thinking about privatisation for profit, we need to think about the public service for the respect of citizens' rights and the principles of equality between Italian and European citizens. Is the instrument best suited to achieving this objective an efficiency of the rail system through market participation, business activity? The State must take responsibility for ensuring in any case and in any case that result, because the allocation of functions of an increasingly preponderant economic nature to private enterprise cannot foresee a reduction of the social and economic rights of the national communities. Therefore, when we are dealing with a subject such as this, the reason why we have started the debate with motions presented and signed by different groups is precisely that we must ensure - beyond the processes we have decided, that others have decided or that in some fora also Community has decided to continue - that those processes of reorganization of the system of the market in services do not provide for a reduction of rights. On the contrary, they had been motivated precisely by an extension and an extension of rights. There has been talk of a reduction in costs, a lower burden on the finances of families and communities, but because of the maintenance of service and the safeguarding of the audience of those entitled. The reflection that is then asked of the Government with respect to the above issue must also concern these aspects. I could also mention other regions, other local realities, so-called peripherals or otherwise at a disadvantage in our country, which see at risk the right to mobility of people, as well as the possibility of moving goods and, therefore, an objective damage certainly important to their development possibilities. I could cite others, because there are others: there are in the Mezzogiorno and there are them inside the peninsular ridge; there are also in the mountains of the northern regions. The right to travel and to reach any destination in Italy and Europe must not only be preserved, but also organized and developed, because it is the right to report, the right to access opportunities for knowledge, but also to work, business and economic development of those realities, also through the valorization of their products or their productive vocations. We cannot think - and I am addressing the Government, because we have also tabled a further motion in these days concerning the link to and from Sardinia - that Sardinia can continue to live in a condition of isolation. We cannot continue to live in this condition: it is a price that the Sardinians pay systematically and we do not understand who pays it. And every time even in this House some of us rise to remember that we are an island, there is an attitude of sufficiency and disowning a physical reality. It is intolerable violence. The government doesn't have to laugh or smile. The government must be concerned about finding a solution and must invest the resources it has in that direction, because eliminating discrimination is a specific duty of a democratic executive.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u30	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u31	Madam President, the Government's opinion is contrary to motions 1-00496 (text 2), the first signatory of which is Senator De Petris, 1-00511, presented by Senator Crosio and other senators, and 1-00543, presented by Senator Scibona and other senators. The contrary opinion is motivated by the fact that these motions, although different from each other, contain all three considerations in the preliminary judgements on the process of general privatisation that has taken place over the last decades in Italy and on the specific political and programmatic choices in the matter of privatization of the FS group that are aware, albeit legitimate of course, and explicit contrast with the options of the Government on this matter. This is for us a reason for opposition. But there is a second one, objectively more important, which concerns instead the demanding part of the three motions, because all, even if starting from topics and sometimes from different objectives, are proposed to obtain from the Government a rethink in some respects - I think, for example, to the motion De Petris - of its choices regarding the privatization of the FS group. Almost all three motions propose, moreover, to allocate a share of the proceeds from the privatisation process to purposes other than those provided for by the legislation in force in our country, at least until now, i.e. to the reduction of the overall volume of debt. This last indication of commitment is also present in the motion of the FI-PdL Group XVII - I address to its proposers - in point 3 of the disposition part. For this reason, I ask President Paolo Romani to assess the possibility of expunging from the text of his motion this point, in which he is asked to devote the proceeds of the privatisation process to other purposes than those provided for by the law, that is to say to the reduction of the overall volume of debt. If this were to happen, of course the Government's opinion on that motion would be favourable. Finally, the opinion is in favour of motion 550, which has Senator Sonego as its first signatory. Of course, it remains firm that the Government is committed to implementing on time what is foreseen by the opinions of the parliamentary committees of the Chamber and Senate, expressed a few weeks or months ago, on the draft decree of the President of the Council of Ministers n. 251, that is, that opens the process of partial privatization of the FS group and that is variously evaluated in the text of the motions, especially in premise. The Government, having expressed a favourable view on the opinions approved by the relevant Commissions on that act, naturally considers itself committed to implementing those guidelines when implementing the provisions of Act No 251. Moreover, even more obviously, the Government intends to implement the provisions of paragraph 677 of article 1 of the law of stability for 2016 and this is an obvious: there would be no need for the Government not to feel committed to implementing what it provides for a law of the State. However, I would like to point out to the senators that the provisions of paragraph 677 of the Stability Act in force, i.e. that for 2016, it is expected that privatisation will take place by 2016. On the other hand, it is now well known - several interventions have mentioned it both at the moment of illustration of the motions and of general discussion - that most likely, indeed certainly the privatisation process in 2016 will not be realized. The government has in fact shared the orientation of the management of the FS group about the opportunity, perhaps even the necessity, to produce first a reorganization of the Group and above all to put in place the definition of an industrial plan that accompanies the process of privatization, thus implicitly accepting a very important part previewed in the indications of many motions, including some of those on which I have already expressed an opinion contrary. One of the political observations I want to make is that this decision by the Government to allow a postponement of the privatisation process beyond 2016 creates a difficulty. And we need to know, because we talk about it explicitly in the Economic and Financial Document. From the current Document on Economics and Finance, based on the fiscal and economic policy choices of 2015, 2016 and 2017 (address also renewed by the Document on Economics and Finance that the Council of Ministers has just approved), you know that we are committed to making, through the privatisation process, a contribution of 0.4-0.5 per cent per annum reducing the overall volume of debt. For 2016 this guideline was implemented in the forecasts - to speak clearly - through the privatisation process of the FS group. Given the choice I have just mentioned, namely a postponement to the following year in order to achieve the results I have already said, it is clear that we are in the presence of a vacuum with respect to the defined programmatic address. We have, however, a firm intention to maintain the achievement of the objective. The overall volume of debt must be reduced in 2016, thanks to the contribution of privatisations, by 0.4-0.5 percent of the product. Which means if we don't do the operation involving the FS group, we're gonna have to do other kinds of operations. To make it clear that all the printing illations are what they are, i.e. printing illations, I say that it is true - and this is not a printing illation, but a very precise point of direction - that, if we do not do the operation concerning FS, in 2016 we will have to do privatizations, for a similar volume, that concern other groups and other properties of the State. This choice of ours, however, shows with the facts, and not with the words, that the criticism that is being addressed to us systematically, and that has been addressed to us widely and for the umpteenth time also in this debate - that is, that we have as our sole objective to cash in these processes - is trivially unfounded. In fact, if we had this as our sole objective, we would not have gone looking for the grain of duty to replace the hypothesis relating to the FS group with other solutions. And that is demonstrated by the facts of this affair. Why is this judgment not founded? In fact, the objectives that we put at the heart of the privatisation process in areas like this remain three and are equiordained, in the sense that they do not have one priority over the other, but all three must be achieved at the same time. The first objective - it is in random order - is certainly to obtain, through privatisations, a significant contribution to the reduction of the overall volume of debt. In fact, especially in a situation where, if there is no deflation, there is definitely zero inflation, maintaining such a high overall debt volume means, in the medium term, risking unsustainableness. Therefore, we must make a contribution - it will certainly not be decisive, as everyone knows - to reducing the overall volume of debt even by privatisation. The second objective, which is equally significant and equally important, is that we must do privatisations in such a way - and we have not always done so in the past - that societies now owned by the State can become more patrimonial, thereby improving the quantity and quality of their performance and product. To put it in money, right now the state is a short-armed owner, in the sense that companies need to invest, need capital and capital. The State, however, due to the size of the overall volume of debt and the overall public finance situation, is in relative difficulty. The privatisation process must make it possible to overcome this gap, through the competition of private capital for the strengthening of large companies today owned by the public. This is a second, fundamental objective. Then there is a third objective that is never mentioned, and the reason for it is clear: it is not part of our "habitions," because our reality is very far from its realization. Through the privatisation process and unlike what has happened with the privatisation processes of the past, we want to promote the fact that finally a significant share of the huge volume of private savings of Italian households and companies (especially families) is invested in the risk capital of companies. The privatisation process is a particularly significant and important opportunity to try to achieve this objective, because the debt of Italian companies is too concentrated in banks. And we know that this is a problem which concerns the economic competitiveness of our production system as a whole. It is, therefore, important to do well the privatisations that we want to achieve under certain conditions. And it is absolutely not true that we make them hastily, in order to take that little money that we can take, because we have to reduce the global volume of debt or - as they say derogatoryly and I never understood why - we have to cash in. We must instead use this opportunity to make sure that the great availability of capital and resources connected with private savings leads Italy to make the choice of other countries, that is to go to invest on the debt of the enterprises, which, carrying out activities like those that carry out in this moment the great public societies, are modernized and will still be necessary in the future. Finally, I am in favour of the G1 agenda. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u32	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u35	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). It is quite clear, Mr. Deputy Minister, that we are on two different planets. In our view, we can change the law in order to achieve certain objectives, which you certainly do not agree with. But that's how we see it. We may agree with you, but the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport must come here and explain to us what input the Government will give for an industrial plan that relaunches the rail system. What is it? Do you want Parliament to sign you a blank bill? Absolutely, yes, and that's the problem. It's too easy to privatise, because anyone who buys where - let me say the expression - there's the fat. How will investments in local public transport be? We don't know. That's the big problem. It is quite clear that we also have other visions on programming, and your counterpart's presence - it is the opposite that we are talking about - represented by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport would have been appropriate. Mr Delrio's presence in this House this morning would certainly have been appropriate in order to reiterate what has been said in the Commission or to say something else. It is clear that your intervention would also have been embarrassing. In this regard, I would ask Members to read the shorthand report on the intervention of Minister Padoan in the Commission and that of Minister Delrio, which was taken twenty-four hours later. I continue to reiterate that I am part of the Delrio current, for which - they are words of the Minister - the privatization of Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane must be an opportunity to relaunch and develop. Great. Two points and at the head: how do you want to achieve it? By having the country, politics, Parliament sign a blank bill? We disagree, Mr. Deputy Minister. Proud of having written the motion in which we believe, we are about to vote for it in view of the government's negative opinion. The motions on which Deputy Minister Morando gave a favourable opinion are not of interest to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u36	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Technical Institute "Achille Mapelli" in Monza, visiting the Senate, who are following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u39	D'ANNA (AL-A (MpA)). Madam President, I would like to say briefly that my group shares the Government's intentions, which are in the direction of streamlining the powers and burdens that are on the State's crawl, which - it should be remembered - is in canvas braches, and which has governed the country, over the last fifty years, by making substantial use of expenditure and debt. That this type of privatisation does not solve, if not for a few decimal places, the enormous amount of public debt - I am referring to those EUR 2,200 billion that cost us about 80 billion of interest payable a year - is in the order of things. However, we would like to clarify other aspects here. I do not agree with the Senator of the Mixed Group who spoke about the need to modernise the railway line in Sardinia. Sicily is in the same condition, but I believe that this must be charged not to a state that intends to privatise, but to the Leviathan State that has managed the railway system under monopoly for fifty years. 11:24 a.m. (Follow D'ANNA). And we'll have those railway lines when we have the users. In fact, if the principle of management on economic criteria fails, the law of the citizen, which is sacrosanct, turns into a further debt on the chopstick of the State which must recover in the form of taxes. It is, therefore, the dog that bites its tail. We recognise rights, but we make them pay dearly and bitterly to taxpayers. I wanted to say to Deputy Minister Morando, that today I liked him and that I think he has a statist involution only when he comes to present here the law of stability, which today I recognized his liberal democratic trait. We have a deputy minister who says very sensible things and understands that advertising and state-of-the-art advertising of a service intended as a monopoly of the state, is an old lie that the statists have proposed to us for over fifty years. A service is public when it is accessible to everyone and when it is free of charge to those entitled to it. Well, if we hadn't already included a privately owned management in the State Railways, we'd still have old routes and railway stations that store beggars and not modern points where we could even promote socialization. One of the criticisms of privatisation was that it would neglect internal routes to give high speed priority. However, I would point out that 65 percent of those using high-speed trains are commuters. They're subscribers. How then to reform these railways? How to promote the internal routes of Sardinia and Sicily? With the company's criterion, with the productivity criterion, with the profit criterion. I remind myself and the bystanders that profit should not be confused with the profiteers; it is a positive term for those who risk innovation, for those who put themselves on the market, for those who accept competition and, therefore, has the need to improve supply. When this happens under the aegis of the State, it takes place without these criteria and at the expense of debt. Since the State is a collective entity, but not an ethical entity, the wrong concept is to think that what is in the public hand has an ethical superiority of the ends. This is not the case: the State is occupied by parties and politics and, if there are no railway lines in Sicily, it is because the Sicilian economic and political potentates had no interest in realizing the railway network and they preferred to manage the road transport that was in the hands of the powerful administrators of Christian democracy in that region. So what do we want to talk about today? Do we want to criticize privatisation? Well, I'm also a Deputy Minister Morando, but on this other side. We must not only sell or privatise; we must cut the dry branches first. You, with Minister Padoan, continue to keep the Cookarelli plan in the drawer. Yesterday we decreed the closure of the Senate because it made scandal for 320 senators to receive a salary, but we still have about 40,000 members on the board of directors of the approximately 10,000 state members who produced 45 billion debts, about ten times the IMU's revenue. The criticism I address to him using the words of Margaret Thatcher that friend Liuzzi, as conservative and reformist who is inspired by Cameron, should remember. The iron lady said: the bigger the slice taken by the state, the smaller the cake will be available to the citizens. We, when we go towards protecting the interests of the citizens, must make the state lose weight. Mr Deputy Minister, be careful: it is one thing to recapitalise companies in the hands of the State; another is to get hold of citizens' savings. You mentioned the need for private investment, citizens' savings, postal savings, bank savings and investment funds to support privatised railways for up to 40%. However, the golden share era must end, otherwise we do not make a virtuous speech, aimed at seeking financing on the market, but there are the hungry hands of the state, which go to impoverish even the private resources and savings of the citizens. As the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, we are in favour of approving the criteria that the Presidency of the Council has issued under Decree No 251, although we cannot understand, to be honest - but this is more than a criticism - because railroaders should be encouraged in the purchase of these actions. We do not believe that having participated in an undertaking gives a right of pre-emption to other citizens. The participation of workers in company profits may be pleasant to President Gasparri's ears, but this is called corporateism and not liberalism, just to be clear. [[Applause from the AL-A Group (MpA)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u40	I reserve the right to speak on the substance at other times: I cannot now.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u43	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, two years ago, in the Commission, public works, communications, I fought with other senators and senators against the idea of privatisation of Poste Italiana. It has already been recalled that Minister Padoan, on that occasion, was de facto denied by Minister Delrio. It is not a question of suspicion or illations, because of the three rules that the representative of the Government recalled in his reply, it was considered only one, that is to try to offset the black hole of the debt. Already then the stunted favorable majority showed how evident it is now to all the wicked attempt to make cash by selling off the public heritage, in total absence, by this Government, of a strategic plan for the future. But perhaps the question that more than any other raises as a symbol of the dichotomy between public management and privatisation, for public opinion, is represented by water service, water as a common good, compared to which Italy has seen 27 million voters vote against privatisation. On Sunday 17 April, despite the boycott in progress, a strong signal will also be given about the absence of a strategy in the very important energy sector. Moreover, in Italy, as we read in the text of our motion, the privatisation processes do not guarantee open-minded economic success and competitiveness, but often result in poor transparency, risking harming the rights of the community in sensitive sectors. Privatisations have been characterized by a particularly complex path, full of failures and unknowns, in which often little transparent financial transactions have been intertwined, so the State has almost never taken advantage of it. On the contrary, it would be difficult to claim that the public hand in Italy has failed. An example for all is the telecommunications sector, which, in past times, with duplication of structures and surplus employees, was apparently a coach: yet, before privatisation, it was one of the world's technological leaders. The same cannot be argued for Telecom, where privatisation has produced considerable damage, which are before everyone's eyes and many are on the way, with great concern, also in this case, for a strategic asset. The case of Ferrovie dello Stato is particularly delicate, because it represents a strategic sector for all citizens. The logic of privatization would hit a company with a huge industrial potential - with a turnover of 8.4 billion euros and an investment forecast of 6.5 billion euros in 2016 (second Italian company for investments according to the Mediobanca data of 2015) - that should be enhanced through ecological and technological conversion, also in the perspective of progressively decreasing the transport on rubber. So why proceed with privatisation, alienating an immense asset in exchange for an entry into the Public Debt Amortization Fund estimated at between EUR 5 billion and EUR 10 billion? These resources are very little significant compared to the current 2 000 billion public debt, especially when considering the risks to profits, employment levels and professional skills. Already in the Commission, in January, we agreed on the need to bring before the final resolution of the privatisation decree a parliamentary debate based on certain scientific data, coming from estimates and simulations based on a thorough examination of the possible outcomes of privatisation, also related to the guarantee of employment levels, the maintenance and development of the quality of the public service offer, first of all of local and regional transport, real drama of our country. Let's talk about what we're looking at in her eyes. We are also concerned that a speedy privatisation would give rise to a certain risk of further deinvestment and worsening for transport services for commuters, through an increase in prices and a reduction in travel on lines considered not profitable; commuters, however, already hard hit by the continuous cuts in transfers from the state budget to the regions. You design paid and private motorways: we cannot think that private investors, potential buyers of part of State Railways, invest when the signal we send is exactly the opposite. We cannot think that it becomes attractive for private subjects to compete in metropolitan lines when, instead of those, they are financed, involving, among the entrepreneurs, always the usual known (other Italian drama) highways: we think of the Rome-Latin or the Tyrrhenian, that today sees, in all the newspapers, the observations of Brussels, that cannot surprise us because we do not follow the liberal parameters at all. The European Union is pointing its finger at the Tirrenic Highway because even though private entities are charged and cost-effectively charged, this is the case with the commitment to privatisation and the extension of the concession until 2046. But from this ear Brussels does not hear us. Oh, my gosh! Oh, my God! I'm amazed! And I am amazed by liberals, not by left-wing representatives: but it is quite clear that in this case we are not talking about free concessions and free market confrontation. What private investment will it invest in this respect? We're on the same page. On a strategic asset we do not tell you to stop in the privatisation, but to change direction or - if you like it better - to change direction. Three objectives have been identified and it has been said, therefore, that there is not only that of making cash (which, however, by Minister Padoan was highlighted as first and only), but there are also the corrections of Minister Delrio, important and on the substance. But if for the second and third objective there is no interest, there is no prospect, it is clear that we remain only at the first objective: to make cash. If the interest of private involvement is directed to road transport and the construction of motorways, it is clear that the private will not risk - if not to the pulp, that is to say to the high speed, but certainly not to the local transport - to invest. Or the usual ones will be known with lifetime concessions, or even foreign adventurers. We have had this example in the first hearings on Roma-Lido, because we have created a great quality step on high speed in terms of competitiveness at European level, but we are the last ones for local transport, and on iron in particular. In these types of transport we win not the first, the second or the third place, but the prize Caronte, like the worst of the local transport. Well, on the issue of the Rome-Lido line come the French who with public money want to carry out a project that would become property forever. That's the situation. We are not making the usual criticism of the statist left. It's not like that. We simply say that we must open the market to the liberal level - and not just to the usual known ones - with clear rules, with a perspective and a vision that favours the transport on iron, first and foremost the local one, which is our real drama. When it's okay - I said - you stay at the first goal and you don't even catch that, because you graft resources for once into the black hole of the deficit when then companies, that already should be healed and revolutionized, in solid public hands, that could give the direction towards which to determine investments and political indications, are not put in the conditions of being competitive. I therefore declare our vote in favour of the motion which sees the first signatory of the Senator, President of our Group, Loredana De Petris. We will also vote in favour of the motions that see first signatories respectively Senator Crosio and Senator Scibona, while the vote will be against the motions at first signature respectively of Senator Romani Paolo and Sonego. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u46	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, we have always been in favour of privatisation, convinced - as we are - that it stimulates the economy and the competitiveness of the markets. We therefore have no objection to the privatisation of this important Italian industry, Ferrovie dello Stato, provided that this is done in full compliance with the transparency criteria and procedures that can guarantee the success of this operation. What's the point? It is clear that the favourable effects of privatisation are there, and they are absolutely obvious. I am not referring so much to the possibility of restoring the state's coffers, because it is little, as much work has been done on the railways with a process of reorganization, modernization and rationalization, so the rating of these companies has also improved, certainly becoming more attractive on the stock market. Therefore, this new flow of money into the railway company's coffers must be aimed, in our opinion, at making investments that are absolutely punctual and aimed at precise objectives. This is part of a strategy to which the Government must necessarily participate, because there are, in the transport system and in the Italian rail system, some absolutely painful notes. I heard Mr Uras talk about the railway situation in Sardinia. I invite you to come to Sicily to understand what we are talking about. In Sicily, apart from the road network that is absolutely insufficient, we have a railway network that I would call dilapidated and dating back to the Bourbon era. Clearly, then, this new flow of money must certainly be targeted. Why, when it comes to new investments on the State Railways, can not the FS together with the Government finally participate in a process and a strategic program for mobility, especially in the South, that sees in the first place the realization of the bridge on the Strait of Messina finally? In fact, we believe that Sicily, in the development process, is marginalized by this great lack of infrastructure. We believe that if we want to create development in Italy, we need cohesion and that there must be mobility for cohesion and that there can be no mobility without infrastructure. We therefore believe that the presentation of these motions was an absolutely positive initiative, especially that of which we are promoters and whose first signatory is Senator Sonego. The People's Area Group will therefore vote in favour of this motion and the one at the first signature of Senator Paolo Romani on which the Government has already anticipated its favourable opinion. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u49	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, we have heard the Government representative's opinion on these motions. But I wanted to reply to Mr Borioli because what he said is absolutely also our concern, in the sense that if we want to reduce the deficit by selling pieces of state, we must ensure that the systems are efficient and that waste is reduced, otherwise we end up selling out without having the certainty of a return, of a return, of an improvement of the system. Before selling out the state's assets, therefore, the system must be efficient: eliminating waste, improving the actual infrastructure situation present, after which one can think of something else if this is not enough. But the opposite is the case. As the government representative also said, the problem is the use of private funds. We are not liberalists and the liberal market says that the economy is based on the attraction of the market so if private capital is not attracted to certain realities, let me say, there will be a reason. So before forcefully imposing the use of the last economic funds of this population for companies that are currently in deficit because they have invested badly, because of the contingency or what they want, I repeat, a reversal of trend would be necessary. If we do not succeed in having a change of course it is useless to sell out the last riches of the Italian State, and even more so of the citizens, to try to restore development; and I do not want to use this word because development is no longer used for photos, so let's say to improve the economic situation of this State. We must first provide for the efficiency of what is there. If it didn't work there will be a reason and so change. Let's talk about it together, we're here for this; of course if you go on on your own you won't find us, after which you can see what to do. Unfortunately, the government's will is very clear; as it has been done for water, disregarding the popular will, so it is trying to do about the rest: privatization as a way - I regret to repeat - to raise capital that it does not have. What a bank can't or doesn't want to give, does it have to give it to the private? I don't think that's the way. I would also add that I do not really want to hear you talk about the industrial plan of public services: public service cannot have an industrial plan, but only a return to citizenship. It is a service and as such cannot be regarded as a company. I conclude, so much what we had to say before, with a prayer: stop being anti-state, stop being anti-political, and stop especially accusing us of being anti-political, when it is you who are trying to sell out pieces of state and abandon this state. In addition to our motion, which of course will have our vote in favour, I also announce our vote in favour of motion 496, at the first signature of Senator De Petris, the abstention on motion 511, at the first signature of Senator Crosio, while appreciating some points, and the vote against on motions 545, at the first signature of Senator Romani, and 550, at the first signature of Senator Sonego. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u52	GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we can certainly only welcome the government's favourable opinion on our motion. We understand that to highlight within the motion the constraint of destination of the sums to structural participations on the railway net impacts on the legislation that currently imposes that the process of privatization, that obviously not only regards Railways but also other participated of the State, is aimed at the reduction of the public debt. However - and in this sense advance the will of Forza Italia to expunge point 3 from the text - we are comforted by the fact that point 4 remains. There is therefore a strong and important intention and interest on the part of the Government, therefore also by other political forces who will vote on this motion, to overcome the technological gap existing on high capacity and high speed, which goes well to the North but is absolutely absent to the South, as my colleague Mancuso and Uras have said for Sicily and Sardinia. To the extent that the State will have a less heavy public debt, therefore it will have more resources to devote on the territory to infrastructure, it is necessary that we go towards the improvement of the passenger transfer, but above all of the goods. The crossing of goods in Italy costs around 6 percent more than in other countries. As a result, we would cut Italy by flowing the goods, through ships, Suez Canal and whatever else, only from the ports of the North. Since all the country system and the Italy company must be unique and competitive, considering that taxes are paid in Milan and Palermo equally, services must also be made in the same way. We therefore welcome the Government's favourable opinion on the condition that point 3 should be deleted, and of course we vote in favour of the motion as reworded. [[Applause from Senator Pelino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u55	FILIPPI (PD). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, rail transport is a strategic asset for the country's development and it is from a renewed relationship with the railways that the harmonious development of people's mobility and the transport of goods depends. Perhaps it depends on this awareness, if we, almost always, assume a specific discrimination against rail transport in its favour. I am sure I repeat myself in this House and I apologise for that, but we believe that two elements are essential because of this discrimination: the first is that when we talk about rail transport we are talking about public transport which is certainly of public benefit; the second is that we are talking about transport which has a far more positive environmental balance than the other modes of transport. The combined arrangement of these two factors reveals in plastic way how the transport on railway or tram is strategic for both the passengers in urban as well as to longer journey, as for the goods, allowing to lengthen the logistic supply chain. In this sense, the necessary "iron cure" for the country, to which the minister of infrastructures Delrio is often referred, hangs not only ideally to the season of the first central-left government, when minister to infrastructure was a certain Pier Luigi Bersani and he also theorized an iron cure. It is therefore not by chance that things are repeated, apart from possible similarities; unfortunately, this also means that little has been invested - and consequently done - in the development of sustainable mobility since then. The fact is also to mean that the development of rail transport for our country has become an indispensable necessity today in order to determine a more total modernization of the mobility. An issue, that of innovation in transport, which has as its key word "integration": modal integration as a balanced and harmonious development of mobility, able to determine, according to the distance of journey and the demand for transport, the most appropriate combination of modal supply. It is also necessary to integrate public and private actors in the management of services, or in any case a presence of them, because good quality and good practice do not always stay on one side in this particular sector. Rail transport in short must be understood as a lever of development, both in order to lengthen the logistic supply chain of the Country, to transport the goods with greater efficiency and greater safety in markets farther of destination, and in order to improve the performance of transport of the passengers. The culture of transport and travel has changed considerably over the past few years, I can also say as a result of the affirmation of high speed. A work, that of the High Speed, that it has constituted the most meaningful infrastructuration of the Country in the last thirty years; a mode of transport first opposed, then greeted skeptically, but that gradually it has established itself, conquering increasing quotas of passengers and consent. The problem has occurred and is manifested rather in those places where the High Speed does not arrive or stop. I think of entire territories of the country, Regions fundamental for economic and development interests: from Umbria that has crossed but does not know of them stops to the Southern Regions that see themselves totally private. High Speed was a significant model thanks also to the competition that took place on that segment. A competition without exclusion of blows and sometimes with blows even under the belt. Of course, competition in the market, possible precisely because it is carried out on a rich segment, but that has changed also the concept of national transport, making the competitive train with the plane, as in the most advanced countries of the world, for distances up to 800 kilometers of journey. In the future, it is reasonable to imagine that these processes also characterise movements within the European Union. In this sense, the progress made in terms of interoperability between States and the convergence processes undertaken with the fourth framework package already set out an evolutionary framework on which we have all the cards in place to compete and prevail. On goods, however, this Community framework is already advanced. In the railway cargo however, unfortunately, more and better we must do as a country system, in the awareness that we play a fundamental game for our system competitiveness, when with the opening of the main Alpine passes our country will lose its condition of insularity. To better organize the infrastructure of our production markets, to assure the infrastructural connection of the main logistic nodes (I think above all to the ports and the interporti), to favor a rebalancing of the economic incentives in favor of the use of the rail also in combined terms and obviously to invest in infrastructural adaptations, from the docks of the ports to the extension of the shelters until the adaptation of the silhouettes of the galleries, is all that we are called to do quickly recovering the lost time. For us - I say this clearly - it is probably also a matter of overcoming a cultural approach that has characterized us in the past and which has proved completely fruitless: I think of a dichotomy of reality, which saw the rail systematically opposed to rubber. Today these two modes must rediscover their natural complementarity and synergy: more flexible and cost-effective on the short distance the rubber, more economical and convenient in environmental terms on medium and long distances, especially for unit types of goods and destinations, the rail. In short, it is on these scenarios that I have summarized from the debate and the texts of the motions and that I have allowed myself to outline in a scenario of perspective, that is inserted the process of partial sale of shares of an industrial group important for the Country and that, after the Moretti care of these years, is also healthy and solid in every respect. Even for Ferrovie dello Stato, in short, an important season is closed and full of results and statements and another one is opened to write, perhaps even more difficult than the one spent and whose outcomes are absolutely not discounted. In this sense, there are processes of liberalisation and privatisation that in our country have certainly not been a happy example, from Alitalia to Tirrenia only to remain in the field of transport, with consequences, as had been easy to predict, not positive that have been determined for taxpayers citizens and citizens users of those services. I therefore believe that a principle must be raised to a common factor this time essential in order to proceed to a path that is rich of problems and consequent reflections: that of proceeding to the partial disposal not before a serious industrial plan that Ferrovie dello Stato - together and through the Government - is able to present to Parliament; an industrial plan that clearly delineates the perimeter of the privatization and dissolves the node of the separation between net and services. As far as we are concerned, we feel that we invite the Government to carefully assess in this sense the possible corporate separation of the Ferrovie dello Stato group; a network that, as recalled in various motions, must continue to guarantee all operators fair and non-discriminatory access to the infrastructure itself, whose asset configuration cannot but refer to principles and advertising nature. Of course, it goes without saying, as mentioned at the first point in the disposition of the motion that we have tabled, that we believe the Government is committed to presenting to Parliament all the relevant steps in this process of disposal of shares. In this sense, for the reasons mentioned, the vote of the PD Group complies with the opinions expressed by the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u57	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u58	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Mr President, I am opposed to privatisation at this time, even as we saw it in the 8th Commission. I absolutely agree with parts of the various motions, but I do not agree with many others, so I shall be abstaining on all of them. The primary motivation is the fear that as soon as you privatise, those who arrive want to have an income from the lines that will continue and there will still be greater discrimination between the lines that will have a strong income and those that do not have it. For example, in my region, Liguria, this will be highly penalising. We often talk about high speed and the problems of Sicily and Sardinia, but in Liguria we always travel on a single track. Remember the derailed train? Nothing has been done: 225 million out of 1.4 billion has been allocated. However, no timetable has been made on how to continue to achieve those 23 kilometres which for 70 years have separated the only link between Italy and France. We use five hours to go from Genoa to Rome, because Genoa does not have high speed. We're talking about the high speed of the North, but it's somewhere else. We don't have high speed. If you take the train from Rome to Milan and you arrive in Milan around 9.15 am, there is not even a train that takes you from Milan to Genoa. So you can't even take the Frecciarossa from Rome to Milan and then take another train. This means that Alitalia takes advantage of its dominant position, because there is no competition from trains, and charges 900 euros for an air ticket between Rome and Genoa, precisely because we do not have the possibility, like the islands, to have facilities in this sense. With privatisation, if these situations are not clarified earlier, they will get worse, since private shareholders will oppose investing in reality that are not high-income. For these reasons, as I said already in the Commission, but even more so I am happy to be able to repeat it now in this debate, there is such a lack of information as to how this privatisation will take place, which I do not think can be voted on today. In this respect, I shall abstain from the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u59	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. Following the vote on motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the G1 agenda will be put to the vote, also for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 496 (text 2). GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 496 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 511, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 543, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On motion No 545 the Government gave a favourable opinion on the condition that point 3 should be removed from the commitments. In his explanation of vote, Senator Gibiino stated that he accepted the Government's proposed amendment. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 545 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators (continued the vote). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u62	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, during the previous vote I mistakenly voted in favour of it when I wanted to abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u63	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 550, tabled by Senator Sonego and other senators (continued the vote). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). On the G1 agenda, the Government gave a favourable opinion. I would ask the presenter, Senator Candiani, if he insists on the vote. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u64	The Presidency has received a proposal to reverse the discussion of subjects on the agenda for today's sitting. Pursuant to Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, it is proposed to reverse the agenda of today's sitting, anticipating the examination of the ratification and implementation of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, done in Doha on 8 December 2012, to move subsequently to the planned motions on the inspection union. The request was made by the prescribed number of senators. As there are no comments, we note that the House is unanimously in favour of this reversal of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u65	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2312, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Pegorer and Caleo, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Pegorer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u66	Mr President, the draft law before the House, approved by the House, provides for the ratification and enforcement of a series of agreements signed between 2001 and 2015 on the environment. Before giving the floor to the colleague of the 13th Commission, some aspects of the Commission's interest are highlighted. It should be noted first of all that these agreements, even if they date back in time, contain forecasts that are still to be transposed, also because they anticipate the commitments that our country has already made following the Paris Conference on Climate Change (COP21), held in Paris between November and December. Moreover, I would remind you that Italy has repeatedly expressed its formal commitment at international level to ratify these instruments, which are in any case aimed at curbing current climate change. The first instrument is the so-called Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol on Climate Change, approved by COP18 in 2012. This text, amending and supplementing Annex B to the Kyoto Protocol, establishes a second period of binding emission reduction commitments (2013-2020) and adds a compound to the Protocol's list of greenhouse gases. To date the Amendment has been ratified by 61 countries, out of the 144 necessary for its entry into force. In this respect, therefore, Italian ratification takes on a certain importance, as it brings the entry into force of the Agreement closer. It should also be pointed out that ratification of this instrument does not involve new commitments for the European Union compared to those already set out in the climate and energy package (a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions). The second agreement is that between the European Union, its Member States and Iceland, on its participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments for the second period of the Kyoto Protocol, Iceland will also have to apply EU legislation on monitoring, reporting and verification of emissions, while a Joint Implementation Committee will ensure the implementation and operation of the agreement. The third agreement is the Protocol on cooperation in the prevention of pollution caused by ships and in the fight against pollution of the Mediterranean, signed at Valletta in January 2002. The text, in force since March 2004, is one of the instruments for implementing the Barcelona Convention for the Protection of the Mediterranean, promoted by the United Nations Environment Programme. The new Protocol, which consists of 25 articles, pays particular attention to the prevention of ship pollution and regional cooperation, through surveillance activities, joint recovery operations, dissemination and exchange of information on pollution incidents. Article 11, in particular, regulates emergency measures on board ships, offshore installations and ports, while Articles 12 and 13 concern, respectively, assistance to deal with pollution incidents and reimbursement of related costs. Finally, Article 15 establishes a commitment for the parties to assess the environmental risks of maritime traffic. The draft law also provides for the ratification and implementation of the two amendments to the United Nations Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a cross-border context. The two amendments, approved at the meetings of the Parties in 2001 and 2004 and not yet in force, aim to extend the Convention's application by encouraging the participation of civil society and non-governmental organisations, opening the Convention to the accession of new countries and allowing the parties to update the list of activities included. The explanatory report stresses that the European environmental impact provisions are already in line with these amendments. The last of the international instruments under consideration is the Kiev Protocol to the UN/EEC Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a cross-border context, known as the SEA Protocol, signed in 2003 and entered into force in 2010. The document commits the parties to take environmental and health considerations into account in their policy and legislative development, to establish clear and transparent procedures for environmental assessment and, finally, to integrate environmental and health issues into sustainable development programmes. Mr President, the draft law under consideration consists of eight articles: Chapter I (Articles 1 to 3) deals with ratification authorisations and enforcement orders; Chapter II (Articles 4 to 6) (to which my colleague, rapporteur for the Commission on the territory, the environment, environmental goods) is devoted to the rules for adapting the Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol; Chapter III (Articles 7 and 8) provides for financial cover and entry into force. The financial charges for Italy are estimated at around 500,000 euros per year. The agreements in question do not present any incompatibility with national legislation or with Community law and - indeed - they are in line with the European legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Finally, the analysis of compatibility with international obligations does not identify any critical issues. In conclusion, the rapid approval of the measure will allow our country to proceed to the signing of the Paris Protocol, scheduled for next April 22, having fulfilled its previous obligations. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u67	I call the rapporteur, Senator Caleo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u68	Mr President, in addition to the issues raised by my colleague, Mr Pegorer, the draft law before us contains some rules for adapting the national framework necessary for the implementation of the obligations laid down in Regulation (EU) No... which provided for a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and for reporting other information on climate change. In particular, the following provisions shall be mentioned: Article 4 provides for the establishment of a National Low Carbon Development Strategy, in accordance with the provisions of the European Regulation adopted by CIPE, on a proposal from the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, in consultation with the other Ministers concerned and after public consultation. The National Strategy is instrumental in achieving Italy's emission reduction targets under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which are expected to expire over time through a periodic definition. The views of the Parliamentary Commissions and the Unified Conference have been taken on the National Strategy. The CIPE is also responsible for presenting an annual report on the state of implementation of the National Strategy, highlighting the achievements, actions and policies adopted, as well as deviations from the objectives. Article 5 provides for the establishment of the National System of Policies and Measures and Projections under the European Regulation, through which greenhouse gas emissions policies, measures and projections are communicated. The information necessary for the implementation and updating of the system is acquired by ISPRA, in charge of the management of the relevant data, also in collaboration with the ministries concerned. Article 6 gives the Ministry of the Environment the task of collecting information on greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, in accordance with the procedures laid down by a decree, and of disseminating it through its institutional website. The Ministry therefore adjusts the annex to the DEF document on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The articles of draft law No 2312, which contain provisions which immediately amend national law, are justified in the need to make such amendments in order to proceed, as Mr Pegorer said, to the ratification of the agreement in a correct manner. Articles 4 and 6 are rules for adapting the Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol. These are articles aimed at preparing requirements that are not merely formal, but that give the concrete meaning of our country's commitment, even if with some delay, to respect the objectives set at international level to safeguard the environment, in particular through the definition of individual national strategies. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u69	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo (including John XXIII) of Baiano, in the province of Avellino, who are following our works. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u70	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u71	Mr President, I wanted to make a few exceptions, particularly procedural ones, before we even go into the matter, on a draft law which is simply a clear reflection of how the Government is considering Parliament. [[Brusio.]] I would like colleagues to hear what I am saying, if they think so. We are faced with a bill of ratification which even contains six ratifications in one article. Mr President, I am going to ask you to vote for separate parts of Article 1 so that you can vote for every single ratification. There had never been a request for a cumulative ratification of six acts of this importance. Mr President, we are talking about the Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, which is preparatory to important commitments that our country must make in relation to so-called CO2 emissions, we are talking about the agreement with Iceland and the protocol on cooperation - I shall speak separately - on pollution from ships, which is of great importance to the Mediterranean Sea. We are talking about five ratifications not only in a single bill, but even in a single article. I would ask the Presidents of the relevant Commissions, who have examined this measure, why they have not opposed this way of proceeding, which deprives individual Members of the possibility of voting for or against one of the individual ratifications according to their personal convictions and assessments. I repeat that I will ask you to vote for separate parts of Article 1 in order to vote for ratification. I come to the second point, which is completely unintelligible from a procedural point of view. I cannot agree with the rapporteurs who justified it with the urgency of approving internal discipline first and then the Treaty. It is the opposite: first the Treaty is ratified and then the internal rules are adapted. It has never happened that internal discipline was approved in the course of ratification. The ratification of an international treaty, also on the basis of an order of substance of the Commissions which examine it, goes to the Foreign Affairs Commission, in this case meeting with the Environment Commission. The adaptation of the internal discipline to an important agreement such as the Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, which involves the entire industrial and productive world of the country, had to be examined separately, through an ad hoc bill following ratifications, by the Territorial Commission, the environment, environmental assets, but also by the competent Commission on production activities. For this reason we will ask for the deletion of Chapter II of the measure under consideration, the inclusion of which we consider irrational and certainly not acceptable. I do not understand the reason why we must receive everything that the Government proposes to us in an uncritical manner and subject to its demands, just because perhaps, by the end of the month, we must go and sign the Paris Agreement, done many months ago, which is successive and cannot be signed unless first we ratify the Doha amendment, which was signed in 2012. In the end, as always, in the last 48 hours we are put in a position to choose between "drinking or drowning" and then Parliament, in its majority, finds itself in "drinking." I would point out that we cannot fail to make an overall and perhaps even positive assessment of the measure, but we must raise a very strong censure on this way of acting and acting, pressing Parliament in time and in will, putting everything in one context and at the last minute. These are the two strong exceptions that we raise, even with procedural demands, which we will raise during the debate on the text and the votes. Mr President, as far as point (c) is concerned, namely the Protocol on cooperation in the prevention of pollution caused by ships and, in the event of a critical situation, the fight against pollution in the Mediterranean Sea, I have presented the G100 agenda, which I hope will find a favourable opinion from the Government and the rapporteurs. The ratification of this Protocol involves an issue of great importance, both for environmental policies and not only because it concerns the Mediterranean Sea and that is the discipline of the so-called spilling at sea of waste, especially hydrocarbons, and for the control of offshore activities in our Mediterranean Sea. Looking also at the "temporal progress" of this Protocol, you can see what is the interest of the Italian Government and governments that have succeeded each other over time, in terms of the care and protection of the Mediterranean marine environment. The Protocol was made in Valletta on 25 January 2002. The same Protocol provides, in Article 24, that it shall nevertheless enter into force when six States have ratified it. The ratification of the sixth state took place in March 2004, so that Protocol has been operational, also for our country, since March 2004. Through the agenda, therefore, we ask ourselves to know what our country has done to comply with the requirements of that Protocol. However, I can tell you that he has done nothing, and that is a very serious fact. If you want to ensure compliance with international agreements when it suits you, you must also treat them when it is not appropriate, not to you, but to someone who trusts in you to carry out their unlegitious activities. In the course of the debate on the law on new environmental crimes - although I am not, as you know, a legalist - I proposed to introduce a precise forecast, which concerns the so-called carts of the sea or, in any case, the ships carrying oil loads across the Mediterranean. We know that there are not only oil pollution sources in the Mediterranean, which we are talking about in a lively way these days: I can only reiterate the call to vote for the referendum on 17 April and to vote for it. [[Applause from Senators Mussini and Nugnes]] On this there is a forecast - that I have had approved and I hope that that connected one goes soon in port - that it obliges also the owners of the cargo, not only the carriers, to assure the cargo against the environmental damage. In fact, if we do not put in charge of the owners of the goods (of the hydrocarbon that is transported) the insurance against the environmental damage and leave it only to the carrier, it is clear that the companies will look for ships of third, fourth and fifth category, that they do not in any way assure the regulations that instead in this protocol are demanded as caution on the safety of the transport, because they pay less. Therefore, we will still witness the ruin of the presence and the crossing of the Mediterranean by the so-called ships of the sea, ships that do not have the double hull or that fly the flag of a State that allows the certifications and the availability to absolutely inadequate means, shipping companies that perhaps possess only that boat and that, if an accident should happen, nothing loses as that boat already in itself is worth nothing, while the damage suffered by the environment becomes irreversible. I have made an example, in order to say that on the agenda I also call for the observance of those articles that require the Italian State to activate important cautions, such as the disposal plants for waste washing of holds in Italian ports. They do not exist; perhaps only the port of Trieste in Italy has a plant of this type: all the other Italian ports do not have a plant of collection and purification of the residual waters of the stowage of the hydrocarbons. The consequence is that the ships that have emptied their holds, but that still have inside them a defined quantity, in technical terms, impompable (that therefore remains in the holds), proceed to the washing of the same during the navigation of return and pour at sea the result of that washing; in a sea where this protocol forbids that it is done. And we do not carry out any control, either at national level or at international level. The Italian Government, rather than tearing its clothes to give authorization to pout the Mediterranean - with all the negative environmental and economic consequences that this, in my opinion, involves - should be concerned to activate at international level a series of conventions and meetings that intervene to prevent all these episodes happening. [[Recalls of the President]] I hope that, by accepting my agenda, the Italian Government will come and report to Parliament on what has been done by all governments, not just by this, and what it intends to do about the matters contained in the Valletta Protocol, which follows the Barcelona Convention, of which it is a partial application; a very important treaty for a brake on admissions, especially from the point of view of prevention. In fact, the Protocol also deals with the activities of intervention in the event of accidents, but another is the absolutely important part, of which the Government should promote towards the other states of the Mediterranean, without suffering what others decide to do. We, Mr President, have a centrality in the Mediterranean and we have a role that we do not play; it is a coordination activity that we could do and that others often ask us to carry out and personally, as a representative of the Senate in the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, I have dealt with this subject several times. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr President, but it was a few words that I wanted to explain to my colleagues because I understand that this matter was not, if not by the experts, absolutely explored by the senators. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Fucksia and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u74	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, in order to remain on the record, I would like to inform you that in the previous vote the Group of the League has made some mess. The Senators Arrigoni, Centinario, Crosio, Divina and Stefani, although abstaining, intended to vote in favour. I ask you to take note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u75	The Presidency takes note of this. The general debate is closed. As the rapporteurs do not wish to speak in response, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u76	The Government accepts the G100 agenda, subject to rewording of the device, which I read. In the first paragraph, replace the words "to report" within 6 months to "to" by the words "to keep the "to" informed. In the second paragraph, the following shall also be substituted for the words "to report" within the same time limit: "to keep Parliament informed." The Government accepts the G101 agenda. The G102 is acceptable, subject to rewording in the part of the device; the first paragraph of the Government's commitment should be understood in this sense: "to be activated at national and international level in order to ensure the adequacy of the protocols on the control of the naval traffic"; in the second paragraph the words "posted in existence normative measures" should be replaced with the following: "posted in existence suitable measures."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u79	Mr Pegorer, rapporteur. I would merely like to point out that the rapporteurs give their assent to the one expressed by the representative of the Government on the agendas under discussion; they also anticipate their opposition to the proposal to delete S4100, which will be examined later.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u80	Thank you for your clarification, Senator Pegorer, but we had given our assent. Senator D'Alì, do you accept the proposal for reformulation put forward by the Undersecretary? D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if that is possible, I would like you to repeat it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u81	Both on the first and the second paragraphs of the proposal are essentially asked to remove the six-month time limit by replacing it with the obligation to keep Parliament informed in any case. Do you accept this request?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u82	Not to make it a question of goat wool, but I would like to ask whether it is possible to insert the adverb with respect to the information that the Government is required to give Parliament. After that, however, I would ask that the agenda thus reworded be put to the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u83	Since the adverb is constantly not meant daily, I believe that your request can be accepted. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G100 (text 2), tabled by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). A proposal for reformulation by the Government representative had been put forward on the G101 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u86	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, as I had previously requested, I would ask you to add my signature to the G101 agenda and I welcome the amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u87	The Presidency takes note of this. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. A proposal for reformulation by the Government representative had been put forward on the G102 agenda. Senator Comrade, are you welcome? Compagnon (AL-A). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u88	Mr President, Article 1 (1) provides for six ratifications which, as I said in general debate, are normally the subject of individual draft laws. Therefore, I request the separate vote of the individual letters in paragraph 1 of Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u89	If no objections are raised, then we shall proceed with the vote on the individual letters of paragraph 1 of Article 1 and then the vote on the second paragraph of Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u92	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u93	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of point (a) of paragraph 1 of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of point (b) of paragraph 1 of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of point (c) of paragraph 1 of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of point (d) of paragraph 1 of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of point (e) of paragraph 1 of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of point (f) of paragraph 1 of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraph 2 of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 1 as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u96	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I propose that the whole of Chapter II be deleted. I had already explained my request, but I will repeat it briefly. Chapter II contains rules for adapting the Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol. As this is a very sensitive and impacting subject on the country's industrial and productive policies, I find it incongruous that a national discipline of an internal nature is ratification of an international treaty, also - I repeat - for the different allocation of competences necessary to examine this measure. It would be more appropriate if this measure were to be the subject of a separate bill, discussed in the Industry and Environment Commissions, with all due respect for the Foreign Affairs Committee, which deals more with aspects of international relations than with those of internal discipline arising from the same agreements. I do not propose a rejection or abolition, but I would like to put to the attention of the House the opportunity to follow a path that is more consistent with the content of the norm and with the possibility of in-depth examination by the competent Commissions and this House of a discipline that could impact strongly on the productive activities of the country. Although many of us are convinced that these international agreements have so many of those stakes and compliances that will hardly be able to have concrete effects, no less if a particularly zealous country like Italy has shown that it wants to be on this subject, really wants to apply all those predictions, there would be consequences on the internal productive market (which you in these days are desperately defending, with absolutely questionable arguments, not to use other terms, regarding the activity of drills). The discipline should therefore be examined by the relevant Commissions. For these reasons, I ask for the deletion and not for the rejection, so that we can discuss it separately.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u97	I put to the vote the proposal to delete S4.100, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Malan. It's not approved. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u100	CASTALDI (M5S). I want to express my solidarity with the workers of Thales Italia in Chieti Scalo. Since March 22, workers and workers of the Thales Italia of Chieti Scalo have proclaimed an all-out strike with permanent garrison on the site. Thales is a French multinational operating in the security, defence and space sectors. The Chieti site is the one that deals with security and communication systems for the Armed Forces and other institutional operators such as the Ministry of Interior. During its decades of history, the Chieti website has been included in several funding and research programmes reserved for disadvantaged geographical areas, with which it has developed products with high technological content and consolidated a small but significant presence on the defence market. The company's leading product is a particular family of radios for communications and advanced services supplied to the individual components of the military units, called ST@R Mille (Soldier's Radio) and included in the global catalog of the Thales group, which was developed using about 15-20 million euros of Italian public funds made available by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of University and Research, from 2002 to recent times. Since July 2015, the staff working on Chieti's website has been divided into three separate organizational areas in order to prepare the transfer of one of them (the one working on ST@R Mille) to a Malaysian company (technology and research financed by Italian investments sold to a country that enters and exits the international financial black list). This division had the immediate effect of exponentially increasing internal inefficiency, as well as decreasing, in perspective, the critical mass necessary to continue to be competitive in the field of defence, thus questioning the very existence of the site. The protest actions undertaken have the objective to recall the company to a constructive confrontation and aimed at safeguarding the competences and professionalism forty years in the field of defense. The operation programmed by the property is doubly reprehensible, first of all because it escapes from a region like Abruzzo a technologically advanced resource, which produces research in collaboration with local universities and constitutes a natural job outlet for young people who attend those universities. Abruzzo is taken away from an industrial core with its jobs and an expanding market gained with the work of many Abruzzo brains to bring it all to rich regions and marginally affected by the crisis. It is also reprehensible because a foreign multinational is allowed to cash in and conquer new markets at the expense of products developed with entirely national capitals, that is, Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u103	PHASE (PD). Mr President, I will make a brief speech to point out what is happening to the Brenner with the wall, which is yet another step towards the Schengen agreements. For now only a few yellow-suited workers are disassembling the guard rail at the Brenner and precisely the indicators of the borders between Italy and Austria, at the signposts of the shopping center that faces the German and Austrian tourists arriving in Italy. According to the Vienna Government, more workers will soon be taking over and a mobile barrier will be lifted in less than a month. The goal is to control the border from the so-called threat of the invasion of migrants; a border enlivened because every day from the italo-Austrian limes thousands of migrants pass through, as we can see from a note of the "Messenger Veneto" and the "ANSA." It is an enlivened border, because every day from the Italian-Austrian limes thousands of TIR pass to which - from the end of May to the end of September - tens of thousands of Germans and especially tourists from Northern Europe for holidays in Italy, with bicycles, canoes, campers, and nobody can imagine that that tide of people and induced can be slowed down or even stopped by the new "great wall" to block some desperate. Of course the reference to the thousands was absolutely ironic: they are few people, few desperate. Between the traffic of tourists, the traffic on rubber and that on vital rail for our and the other trade (thousands and thousands of people), the transits of migrants are therefore few, according to the statistics about twenty a day, and to those who do not make it to pass the alternatives are presented, that is the small dolomitic passes without controls and where, according to the "Messaggero Veneto", raising anti-immigrant barriers would even be grotesque. Unfortunately, in Austria too, however, there is a feeling of xenophobia, which is more attentive to rejection than to welcome and allies to a dangerous feeling. Original Austrian President Heinz Fischer reassures and talks about management: there will be no barbed wire, and there will be no wall; he says that simply we are preparing to manage a probable uncontrolled flow of refugees with a border management. Nice management! I wonder what this term means, which is a lexical camouflage inside which hides the most obscure and grotesque; it is truly a ridiculous term. Border management, will be implemented as needed. I hope that Europe will respond, as Mr Renzi and Mr Alfano and Mr Gentiloni have done. I hope that they will respond again and with absolute firmness, respecting the dignity of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u106	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, in the last law of stability, an amendment was adopted, signed by me and the other colleagues of the Mixed-Fare Group!, within which a credit fund was created for companies that were the victims of non-payment, better known as the Serenella fund, precisely because it was wanted by this entrepreneur who, even writing the book "I don't want to fail" said that she refused to fail because of difficulties that were not born from the bad management of the company, but from the impossibility of obtaining the payment of the credits. From this, therefore, comes the name of this fund, better known as the Serenella Fund, in support of small and medium-sized enterprises. It goes in the direction of maintaining this primary and important entrepreneurial fabric for our territories, but at the moment it has not yet seen the enactment of the implementing decree necessary for its activation. A few days ago in the press undersecretary Baretta declared that he had a symbolic endowment of 10 million euros per year for the three years 2016-2018; however, the fund needs an implementing decree that the Ministry of Economic Development must therefore carry on. It is true that the amendment did not give a fixed date for its adoption, but it is also true that the urgency of this objective is clear. We have seen entrepreneurs who, unfortunately, also make unreturned choices, precisely because they are not adequately supported. Therefore, if the result has been obtained in the law of stability, I really want to highlight with force how urgent it is from the Government to activate this implementing decree, giving the entrepreneurs the possibility to draw on it and, in particular, to take advantage of it through a correct promotion. To date, in fact, the entrepreneurs themselves are not aware of it. There is no communication campaign and there is no iter that promotes it, even through the professional associations, that must be involved anyway. Absolutely urgent, however, is that the request to finally give life to the implementing decree, to give it content and effectiveness, in order to allow entrepreneurs to draw on it as soon as possible, before still other entrepreneurs have to close due to lack of payments, therefore for credits, their businesses.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u109	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, rumors have shown that on Monday 11 April at 5.30 a.m. 51 children from those who were stuck in Congo arrived in Fiumicino after a flight of hours. This is good news, for which we congratulate you. From the same indiscretions (because nothing has appeared on the website of the Presidency of the Council) one learns that these children have passed through Polaria, and then be taken to the multifunctional police center of Spinaceto, the center where the NOCS are trained. At that point, phone calls began to arrive to families in various parts of Italy. Families were summoned to sign documents (you don't understand which ones) in various parts of Rome, where they found pick ups or police cars that led them to Spinaceto where, still in the evening, there were children. So much so that at 11:30 on Monday a child was admitted to the child Jesus hospital because - fortunately - one of the mothers who had gone to get her child had noticed that she had serious problems. He was then discharged on Tuesday morning. I would like to know from the Presidency of the Council how these operations are managed. What does the state police have to do with this? Why were the children taken, after so many hours of travel, to a center where, of course, there were neither the equipment, nor the facilities, nor the concerns that must be had in such a delicate situation? I would like to know why families were warned in this way, at the last second. Some, even, were warned in the afternoon and then had to do this very secret Calvary around Rome, as if it were necessary to safeguard a secret of state. Let us remember that there are still children in Congo. If I had to listen to the indiscretions, it would have also been worthwhile words to some parents who had criticized the management of the Commission for International Adoptions (CAI). Now, because according to the same indiscretions as President (but this also appears from the Council Presidency's website), the President of the CAI is remunerated with EUR 350 000 a year to perform this function (and I also ask for verification), we should have time and way to deal with this issue in a democratic and transparent way, perhaps in relation to Parliament, since all the parliamentary groups, on several occasions and repeatedly, have denounced the scandalous management of the Commission for international adoptions. Adoptions have collapsed from 4,000 to 2,000 in about two years and the same person, Dr. Della Monica, performs the functions of president and vice president. Both in an illegitimate way, among other things, because the president of the CAI must be a member of the Government: either the President of the Council, or a Minister with delegation to the family or other Minister or Deputy Undersecretary. In two years, Dr. Della Monica has never brought together the Commission for International Adoptions. All the resolutions you have taken over these years have signed them on behalf of a committee which, by law, must decide or ratify resolutions that have never been resolved. I therefore ask that the Presidency of the Council inform Parliament, because everything I have said comes from indiscretions, because no transparent information has been given about this management.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u110	Senator Giovanardi, of course you will also be able to present an act of inspection union, which will support your initiative.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-607.ana.u111	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.04 a.m.
