ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u3	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we learned this morning of the disappearance in Cairo of the Italian researcher Giuliano Regeni. Our compatriot, a student of the prestigious University of Cambridge, was in Egypt for a PhD in Economics. In the hope that clarity can be made as soon as possible on the circumstances of this tragic event, I express, on behalf of the whole Assembly, my feelings of participation in the pain of the family and I invite you to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2081, 14, 197, 239, 314, 909, 1211, 1231, 1316, 1360, 1745, 1763, 2069 and 2084.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u5	Mr President, for those who listen to us and have not followed us in detail, it must be said that the debate on civil unions started long ago. In fact, in March 2014, when I was kicked out of these here unfairly [[It is addressed to the 5 Star Movement Group. Applause from Senator Bignami]] , I ended up in the Justice Commission, which at the time began to discuss civil unions and de facto couples. Since I did not have a legal experience, I have been deeply committed to this issue which I felt was closer to me and I did so first of all by participating in the many hearings we have had: hearings of constitutionalists, associations and families. This discussion has led me to reflect on what should be a just law; the central point; that is, it is the recognition of a couple's affection that is not what up to this moment is recognized, that is, that of a heterosexual couple. My first idea was that there was an egalitarian, secular marriage, a marriage light and not weighed down by those religious bonds that anyone can contract, but that those who do not want have the right not to contract; a marriage that is just, disciplined in rights and duties for all. Another issue, on the other hand, is other specific social formations present today in our society, which today is characterized by a series of aggregations that have the aim of establishing reciprocal duties and rights. This goal is linked to the fact that in reality there is no longer a family model like the traditional one; but there are models that express affections that are not those of couples, which are aimed at mutual protection, help, solidarity and even the care of children. In twenty-three years of teaching, I have seen how there is an extremely varied reality: there are single mothers who care for children, grandparents who care for grandchildren, there are family groups of different kinds and in my opinion they too would have needed the recognition of duties, rights and also protection. In my opinion, it would therefore have been appropriate to proceed through a review of the legislation concerning succession law, the complexity of the matter of adoptions, the lightening of the rite of dissolution of marriage. We in the Commission had a complete basket in order to be able to deal with this, starting from my assumption that couples' affection needed a single institution that would recognize equal dignity to anyone who wanted to show society a mutual commitment and a couple's affection. I was told that our society was not ready and that this could create more confusion than anything else. I have therefore withdrawn in good order, limiting myself to accepting the unified texts that have been presented and re-presented, which certainly do not have the merit of being the highway that gives the laws that crystal clearness that we are asked for. At the inauguration of the judicial year, the judges made it very clear that the first requirement for a correct interpretation of the law in court is the clarity of the wording of the law. It is clear to everyone that, as Mr Palermo has explained to us in a very brief and clear way, while on the one hand there are no limits on constitutionality in this measure, on the other hand, the main route would have been to solve a number of doubts and concerns which, not without the legal basis, have been raised in this House. It is clear that the highway is the premise for just, meditated, clean laws and that they do not create problems in the courts. I am very pleased to have signed the amendments tabled by my Parent Company, which trace that bill and the idea of egalitarian marriage that were at the origin of my thinking. I am just sorry that there is not an opportunity to deal secularly with all the matter related to this issue. There is one aspect that particularly annoys me: elements of deep exploitation have been included in the debate. I am referring, first of all, to the exploitation of the concept of family. There are political players here who have more seats than voters and, consequently, it is clear that they need to survive by seeking a political identity. However, I would like to remind these people that for each Catholic they have taken to the square they have slapped at least twenty of them. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Simenoni]] I am referring to those Catholics who, like me, believe that there is the possibility of living a religious dimension within a secular society and that their own religiosity cannot and must interfere with the functioning of a society that has been defined as constitutionally secular. I am a teacher and for twenty-three years I have worked on this very aspect, that is, on the distinction between the public role (if it is a public role that of teachers, let alone that of the legislator), which must first of all maintain respect for the secularity of the State, and the personal dimension. But not only that. Those who call into question the family evidently have in their heads a square model and a very little observation of what happens in reality. I also ask myself questions about the exploitation of the condition of children and adolescents who go to school. I find it really fascinating the emotion with which children, childhood and adolescence are called into question. I would like to say to everyone that, in order to grow up, children need affection, security, care and education. I would have liked to have found all this emotion towards childhood when we worked on school reform. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Simeoni.]] When a mother goes to school today to ask - rightly - a special care for her child, she is answered: "Madam, we are sorry but in the classroom there are 28-30 pupils, of whom 5, 6 or 7 foreigners; we do not have sufficient resources to do literacy courses; someone is disabled and the support teacher has not arrived, he has arrived late or there has been for a short time." Well, on that occasion we would have liked to see so much, so much concussion. Children need certainties and the first certainty is the work of their parents. I would then have liked to see all this emotion when, in here and elsewhere, the jobs act was proposed and approved, because the child who lives in a family where there is no security, the certainty of work, is a child who suffers from the worries, anguish and anxieties of his parents; he is a child with whom there should be the same emotion. I find the exploitation of religion even more shameful and I find it shameful for a number of elements which, in truth, have already been brought to this House. First of all, I would like to remind those professing to be Catholics that they spread a certain form of Catholicism - perhaps not within this House, but certainly outside it - that perhaps not considering the fact that Jesus a child himself enjoyed a father who was not his natural father and I do not believe that this was ever conceived by the dictation of the Gospel as an element at the expense of the serenity of this child who for thirty years grew up with the affection of a father aware that he was not the natural father. In the same way, I find it shameful that, with all the conducts that the Bible and the Gospel call us to, now those who are dying to be the defender of a Catholic and Christian family tradition, forget about a whole series of other prescriptions. I could begin with the ten commandments and remember that anyway the "not wanting the woman of others" is the last commandment and the only one that has to do with sex. Before this commandment there is "do not steal", "do not say false testimony", etc. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Simeoni.]] President, I know I don't have time to do this, but I could go to the mountain talk and say "Blessed are the poor of spirit", I could start to make a whole series of quotations remembering that our Lord was angry only once, when he entered the temple and saw the merchants who used his house as a place of exchange: on that occasion the Lord did not hesitate, took the whip and kicked them all out. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Simeoni.]] I will end by asking the PD senators to allow their party to finally do something left: Allow him, because this will be the only left-wing thing you have managed to do in this parliamentary term. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Simeoni.]] Let them do it, please, so that they too can say something to their voters. And to the Catholics I remind that Augustine said "Love and do what you want." [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Gaetti and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u6	He's enlisted to speak Senator Susta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was obvious that a subject such as this would cause lacerations and intensify the political debate, risking ending in an ideological exasperation in which reasoning, distinction and mediation no longer count; it is the same function as politics, as art capable of reading social phenomena and governing them in line with the deeper needs of the community and the values that it has given itself with its fundamental Charter. The failure to grasp the signs of the times on the one hand has characterized until today the spirit of those who led the square last Saturday; having acquired the conviction that their feeling coincided with the prevailing common feeling, having exchanged the duty to overcome ancient and consolidated discrimination, offended, violence with the foundation of a political manifesto aimed at rewriting the very foundations of social life, pointing to as retrograde civil and therefore reactionary on the political level all those who manifest distinction and/or perplexity on that political manifesto characterized the other square, meeting eight days earlier. To those who, with miscelated sarcasm, use the term "cattodem" to define the position of those who, in the Group of the PD and the other center-left forces, discuss on particular points of the bill that we are examining, I say with serenity that neither will we accept to be sucked into clerical-moderate temptations, abdicating to our duty to build the common good independently, nor will we accept to lock up in the intimacy of our consciences or in the secret of the sacristies or works of charity our political or cultural heritage, accepting on a political level the cultural hegemony of those who seek a new relationship with modernity, exalting the libertarian dimension of the history of the left. If ten years ago we had the courage to move forward on the so-called DICOs, we would not today have to discuss issues - such as stepchild adoption and the more general issue of adoptions by same-sex couples - which are rightful for any decision on these issues. The time has come, however, to decide. The time has come to answer a question of legislative intervention, not because there are calls from the Court of Strasbourg and our Constitutional Court; not because it is necessary to fill the gap that jurisprudence inevitably, even with its entire innovative role, has left, but because there is a question that rises from the country to recognize and guarantee the rights of those who believe to express their affectivity, their ability and freedom to love in another way compared to the vast majority of the population. The need to finally arrive in this Chamber to be able to discuss and decide, after years of sterile debate and ideological clashes - much more than a need for Group discipline, which should not even be invoked or claimed - has made us overcome the perplexity, which also (for example) I have about the total consistency with the constitutional dictation of some passages of this bill. So let us have this debate, despite the stringency and controversy that accompanied the incardination of the bill in the Chamber, which certainly deserved further consideration in the Commission, if only two years of unnecessary obstructionism had not prevented a real debate on the substance. And let's get to the credit. I cannot fail to acknowledge the rapporteur's efforts to try to motivate that judgment of moderation and prudence which Senator Cirinna attributes to the bill. There are certainly in this provision the recognition, the protection of rights, individual and couple, which must be shared, consistent with doctrine, with jurisprudence, with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and with the fundamental principles of our Constitutional Charter. Those who declare themselves opposed to this text, without distinction, on the basis of an alleged superiority of Article 29 over Article 2, are locked up in a sort of non-expedit, perhaps by virtue of their religious convictions, which does not honor either God or Caesar. On the other hand, to present this text as the result of an already accomplished mediation because we have renounced marriage and adoption, forgetting that the Constitutional Court has excluded the possibility of extending marriage to consensual couples, it is also a coercion. But even the other element, the renunciation of adoptions tout court, is not an act offered to mediation. If adoption is an institution aimed at guaranteeing minors that no one deprives them of a family and if the declaration of cohabitation produces a civil union and not a family, which is the consequence of a marriage, the adoption also hits with Article 29, and the renunciation of the adoptions in the bill was not a tribute to the spirit of mediation but a realistic take-up of the constitutional reality and the need to avoid forcings that would compromise the outcome of the bill. This, therefore, is not a text of mediation or rather it is on the abstract level, of the mere cultural debate with respect to its own positions and beliefs; it is no longer so in the relationship that ordinary law must have with respect to the constitutional framework, to which it must refer. The part of the text dedicated to homosexual couples is the maximum that one can think of previewing to Constitution unchanged. Perhaps you had to have the courage to change the Constitution. Moreover, the insistent equivalence of the relationship of union with that of marriage seems imagined for the main purpose of opening gates for the jurisprudence of merit and legitimacy, as well as of the Constitutional Court, to affirm the overlap between marriage and marriage, with all the consequences of the case, also in relation to questions of sonship-parentity. It is from these considerations that the amendments have been drawn up, which we have tabled with others. An action - that of wanting to amend this text - responsible and difficult: responsible, because it is aimed at achieving a historical result in the fight against discrimination; difficult, because the clash between opposing ideologies ends, even at the level of public opinion, to make an ambiguous and confusing position appear that is instead very clear: favorable to unions, absolutely convinced that recognition of unions nothing takes away from the family founded on marriage; decidedly opposed to those who discriminate against people on the basis of their sexual orientation. But all these critical observations that, if taken into consideration, would have led to a better and more widely shared text even within the same majority of Government, are not so straight as the question of stepchild adoption is. Others have already spoken on this subject, in harmony with the way they feel. To those who tell us that we have to look at the rights of children, regardless of how they came to the world, I respond that introducing automatisms, as in fact this bill does, between being a partner of a homosexual couple and being able to become a parent of a minor child of the other is a force that contrasts with the same foundation of the special adoption, with which the legislator wanted to guarantee a family to those who are deprived of it and not to satisfy an absolute right to parenthood, which does not exist. But let's not hide behind a finger. The simultaneous right to the recognition of the union and to the adoption of the partner's son opens the way to surrogacy, today punished only if committed in Italy. It is an aberrant manipulation of human relationships, in which the body of a person becomes an instrument of the satisfaction of a need, when not of a pleasure of a third party in exchange for money. If it is true that the law must take charge of those who are weaker, the minor, and have come to the world with illicit practices, it is equally true that a law - in our case this law - cannot become the instrument to encourage illicit practices, especially in the presence that the child here considered is already protected by the power exercised by his biological or adoptive parent and by norms that already allow, in case of necessity, to support third people in the growth of minors without extending parental authority on them. It is necessary to get out of the darkness of ideology to address issues that cannot be exhausted in an article of law. It is necessary to reopen the construction site of the amendments to Law No 184 of 1983: cures, safeguards, assignments, special adoptions, ordinary adoptions, support administrations have undergone in the last thirty-five years profound changes and adaptations in a society in profound change. We need to put this back on track, but we cannot think of doing this by majority voting or by fear of appearing in harmony with Europe, for fear of being with the most backward countries. This perhaps while the most evolved countries, taken for example of a greater capacity to conceive, to live civil rights and to transform them into law, confiscate goods to migrants, load minors on trains and planes, send them back to biological mothers in Africa or in the Middle East, if they can welcome them. In many, we are ready, in certain and rapid times, to address the issue of adoptions at three hundred sixty degrees, but the more we see a real demonstration of the will of mediation, the more we will be convinced, free and available in supporting, in the final vote, this measure. I hope that, in the coming days and hours, this mediation activity will have a positive effect for everyone and for Italian society. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are dealing with is certainly very sensitive, but we are doing so, in my view, on a totally wrong basis. Meanwhile, we are facing it in the context of an absolutely abnormal procedural context, contrary - as we have explained in our preliminary questions - to any constitutional prediction: a text that has completely skipped the examination of the Commissions, has underestimated, even in the judgment of both the Government and the Commission of which I am part, the economic effects of the eventual approval of this forecast. In fact, there is a substantial difference, which had to be censored under Article 81 of the Constitution, with a safeguard clause, in the eventual expansion - which will certainly happen - of the country's financial burdens as a result of its approval, which heavily affects the other social policies of the Government. In fact, this is also an absolutely unusual and censorable safeguard clause that puts at the expense of the social funds of the Ministry of Labour all the possible financial surplus, in the sense of expenditure, that this measure should bring. That's what we talked about. There has been no listening even where, beyond the political parties, we should examine with prudence and clarity technical aspects that are not secondary in the body of our laws. In the meantime, I would like to censor two aspects: the first is that of differentiation. There too there is a clear constitutional injury between civil unions reserved for same-sex persons and civil unions reserved for different-sex persons, who are not such, who cannot establish such a relationship and who are overcome in the consideration that instead privileges only civil unions of the same-sex. In this same bill, which we did not share, it was enough to stick to Chapter 2 also for civil unions between people of the same sex so that this argument could be resolved in the context of the needs related to some individual situations of which we all respect. However, we cannot believe that this respect can transcend the fundamental principles of equality between citizens and fundamental principles, which the Constitution itself recognises and the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stressed, of the social structure of our country based on marriage. It is not a question of freedom of conscience, but of the overall and civil consciousness of the fundamental structure of the country's society. Here I want to introduce the issue of maintaining social cohesion in our country. We are involuntarily and, perhaps, unconsciously - some are not, but most are - protagonists of a legislature - perhaps it will be the number XVII that will lead the country to social disaster - where we are inserting, considering them separately and not in an overall context, a whole series of interventions on the social structure of the country that within a few years will lead us to have a country of citizens whose majority will be of non-Italian origin. I explain: the combined arrangement between this rule, if it were to be passed, the new law on citizenship, the laws on short divorce, the laws on family reunification, the international situation of migratory pressure that at this time affects the country in a few years will bring the same, where never - and this will happen and no one can prevent - these norms were used in an instrumental way, to have a majority of Italian citizens of non-Italian origin. In fact, civil unions cannot but be connected - it is clear the absolute assimilation to marriage that the law brings - the right to acquire citizenship and the right to dissolve civil union through the rules governing separation and divorce. No one can be prevented from building a civil union which is not based on the notion of affection, which is intended to prevail here, but on collateral interests, which are absolutely practicable, even if they are certainly not legitimate. In fact, there is no stake - as we say in technical terms - in this legislation that prevents the proliferation of the release of citizenships through the mechanism of civil unions. Therefore, we must consider the combined arrangement of all these rules (now we will deal with the new citizenship criterion and we have already dealt, as I mentioned earlier, with the short divorce criterion) in a single context, characterised by migratory pressure such as the one we are experiencing. We will be the only country in Europe that, instead of raising the barriers to defend Italian citizens, opens the barriers indiscriminately; therefore, between the low rate of population growth existing in our country and the migratory pressure (it is a mathematical calculation, not hypothetical), within fifteen years we will find ourselves with a majority of Italian citizens of non-Italian origin. It is right that this should be considered. Then it can be a political choice that you want to make: you want this country not to be Italian, but Italian citizens of non-Italian origin. This is an absolutely legitimate choice, but I would like this House to reflect on these things; I would like this measure, like others that have been examined or which we are examining, to be considered in a single context of the social structure of our country, beyond the fact that the more we read this text, the more aberrations emerge in the overlap between civil unions and marriage, above all, as I said, in the differentiation, in civil union, between persons of the same sex and persons of different sex. There is a fundamental danger, which for some may not be such, but which, as far as I am concerned and as far as - I think - the vast majority of Italians who had to be called to reflect on these things, would be such as to constitute an absolute change in the social structure of our country. We have tabled a number of amendments, some of them provocative. I myself have tabled an amendment in favour of the privilege of the motion of affections, starting from the assumption that the motion of affections must prevail over the social structure of a country; I do not say a traditional country, because this too could be a misguided and immediately pointed to public opinion, considering everything that is happening on the media at the moment: we are struck by a series of subliminal messages, all aimed at making sure that the aspects I was talking about and prefer instead aspects of personal sensitivity that concern very few cases and that are destined, in the end, to influence the entire society of a country. The motion of affections cannot be placed at the basis of a critical, serious, thoughtful analysis that concerns the social structure of a country. I also tabled a provocative amendment: why limit the possibility of a civil union to two, since the motion of affection must prevail? We open (because this will be the new frontier that already exists in other countries), with stakes in order to maintain the overall social structure of the country. Already practiced: the Netherlands has already begun the possibility of civil unions with three people and this will be the new frontier. There is another consideration that I would like to make especially those who have doubts about some passages of this law. There is no point in saying that we are voting on the law, and then perhaps we are going to amend it. On these issues there is no possibility of return: it is demonstrated by history. It is demonstrated by the legislative history not only of our country, but also of all Western democratic countries. The Spanish example is the most striking: on the Zapatero law regarding civil unions was won, perhaps, also an election by the opposition of the right, but there was no possibility of going back. No way. I say this to those who think that this measure must be adopted and that it can then be changed. This is a completely incorrect assessment: the law will not be changeable, because when you grant rights you can no longer take away and therefore those who have doubts will also consider this aspect. But this is a lesson in history that should be known by all. In assuming a responsible judgment on this matter, this is a fundamental element: there is no law on civil rights that can be modified in the sense of denying, in whole or in part, what has already been granted. Therefore our opposition is not on the institute of civil union, which could be regulated much more through the predictions of Chapter 2 of this bill than through the excesses of Chapter 1, in terms of successor rights and absolute assimilation to marriage. In fact, even if not formally stated, in fact this law absolutely assimilates the institute of civil unions to marriage and - I repeat - does so only for civil unions between persons of the same sex. Instead, unions between people of different sex, the most common and the most frequent (I do not want to use terms that can be misunderstood), are discriminated against by a partial regulation contained in Chapter 2. I then say that all those problems that have rightly been raised by many on health care, on the right to maintenance and on the right to some important aspects of coexistence could be solved by examining them one by one as Chapter 2 of this law does. We are not opposed to tackling these problems and solving them, with much concreteness and much weight. On the contrary, we are absolutely opposed to the exaggerations, especially on the basis of the assumption that I have already explained and that I will not tire of repeating, that the motion of individual affections cannot prevail over the overall structure of a model of society, because it no longer becomes freedom but becomes free referee, it becomes the dependence of a legislative Chamber on media pressure and individual cases, which are very often brought about by the members of this House, but which cannot be considered as extensible cases for the entire society of the country. Therefore, if you have made the decision to open, in an overall context of norms, to a possible instrumental use of these and other norms, which will take the country, within fifteen years, to a majority of Italian citizens of non-Italian origin, but of foreign origin, approved also this law. Unfortunately, the consequences will be suffered not only by future generations (as we often say), but also by our generation, because the mechanism will be so rapid and unmistakable that we, in the course of fifteen or twenty years, will find ourselves with a country with a foreign majority. Is it a will that derives from the fact that the demographic increase of this country now always marks a negative algebraic sign? Is it the will to further open the borders to an entry to be legalized? Do we want, through these mechanisms, to reduce the burden and the cost of migration policies, another chapter which this Government treats in an absolutely disastrous way? It can be, provided that this decision is consciously taken. If you assume the will to launch this text in its entirety, without placing any stake on the inevitable consequences that this law will bring on the social structure of the country, you assume responsibility for it. This legislature will go to history not so much because of the number it brings (17th, which is not a great number) or because of a constitutional reform absolutely indigestible from any country, such as the one you are passing through, but it will go to history as the legislature that opened the country to a completely different social structure, not in the noble sense with which someone may possibly vote some parts of this bill, but in the sense of a complete and overall upheaval of the social structure of our country, aimed at zeroing the majority of Italian citizens, watering it down in a majority of non-Italian origin. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u10	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my thanks for the passionate work of our rapporteur, Senator Monica Cirinna, and for what she has done over the years. We must recognize an important job even if, as I have always testified to you, I do not agree on some points on which I will now try to reflect calmly and, I hope, with maximum serenity. Without prejudice to the need for a regulation on homo-affective unions, it seems appropriate to clarify some issues of absolute priority importance which, while on the one hand a little outside the content of the bill, on the other hand are indispensable in order to widen the field of views beyond the mere legal boundaries of the ongoing process. With regret I must point out that the fundamentalism of positions does not help anyone; indeed, it undoubtedly impoverishes the outcome of a public debate that contrasts opposing visions. In these weeks we have witnessed the total delegitimization of the opponent. But who is the opponent? The other one? What's different about her? It is still possible, I think, to express different opinions and thoughts in order to enrich a debate, because when we confront these sensitive and delicate subjects I really believe that the confrontation does not serve but it is absolutely necessary to confront. It seems to me that the heart of the matter can be centred on what the legislator can or better should be assumed in the same way as the law and, therefore, as such protected by the law. Many journalists, jurists, sociologists and psychologists are dealing with the issue of civil unions from their point of view, each in the hope of attracting the opinion of those who are listening in their orbit. However, the extensive discipline provided for civil unions with regard to the institution of marriage, as governed by the civil code, conceals in fact the extension of the same set of rules. I suggest that we broaden our visions a little bit about the idea and concept of the family, beyond taking excessively partisan and pre-constituted positions. On the one hand, it seems to me that the current discipline provided by the draft law tends to consider the rights of parents as those who are interests, simply by raising the rank of interest, which becomes a right. The reference, in this sense, is to the possibility of adoption of the partner's son, the so-called adoption of the stepson, in the case of a homo-affective union. Let us not forget, however, how that child is born in any case from a biological union between a man and a woman, made this intrinsic to the same concept of human life. On the other hand, if the possibility of adopting the partner's child were to be useful in granting rights to children for situations which already exist, even if, on the whole, this issue concerns only a few cases, I do not think that we have a principle in this way: everyone can recall the right to have a child, the right to be parents. The extension of this discipline could then reserve, in the near future or far, whatever implications or evolutions. In short, who tells us that in the name of rights that we do not recognize today the need we cannot in the future think that so-called surrogate motherhood represents nothing but the way by which homoffective couples, composed in the case of men alone, can realize their full right to parenthood? It is these days what happened in Paris: the women of every culture, every country and all political extractions met to say "no" to the uterus for rent. If a principle passes today, by amending the current adoption legislation (which should be dealt with in that forum, among other things), there is a risk of disrupting not only the current order, but also, probably, the future one. I want to stigmatize this concept: the extension of property rights, successors and welfare for homo-affective unions is right and due, and to this I believe we are giving the right answers. In the same way, however, I want to point out the deficit of our system about the absence of structural policies in support of parenthood and the family and the lack of adequate responses to the demographic decline that our country is investing. On the way, therefore, these questions appear much more interrelated to the discussion of a law governing civil unions than might seem at first instance. If, on the one hand, we introduce ad hoc rules on specific social formations into the system with the intention of extending the rights to formations which are nominally not equivalent to the family but which are likely to be so, on the other hand we do not hesitate to disregard a constitutional provision, that of Article 31, which stipulates that the Republic has the task of actively promoting support measures for the formation of the family, facilitating the many. Starting from this observation I wonder why the drastic decline of births that concerns our country, fruit also of a lack of structured family policies, does not interest us, even if it concerns the entire state community, while the adoption of the stepson of the partner in the case of a homoffective couple is indispensable and improcrastinable requirement? The issue is a matter of priority. The family, understood in the sense that the constituent Fathers wanted, is the center of our society and to those who complained about the lack of an adequate policy on the family have made themselves ears as a merchant. Finally this government, our government, in the last two maneuvers has established funds, has paid attention to this but it is still little, we still have to work. I conclude my speech by saying that if we look at Northern Europe and the policies for the protection of the rights of homo-affective couples, we must remember how for some time these countries, such as France, Germany or those of the Scandinavian area, have avant-garde legislation on family policies. And again - let me tell you - I wonder why our Europe constantly calls us, and rightly, for the lack of attention we have had with respect to homosexual couples, but there is a deafening silence regarding the death of children - we have known that 10,000 have disappeared only in 2015 - who come to the other side of the world to seek health, support and the right dignity of their lives and this does not want to be taken care of. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Padua, I invite you to conclude, I have already given you a lot more time than you were given. PADUA (PD). I am a pediatrician and I have spent my whole life with the children of my community, so I think I have a minimum of experience in order to be able to say in this House that we are deciding on a process that will affect the future of our children and there are no studies that indicate one way rather than another. Certainly the experience of everyday life is that a father and a mother are necessary for the serene growth of a child and it is certainly important, I want to say it also to give voice to children who are not present, to reflect because we are going to assume a great responsibility and respond to our conscience. Mr President, I would like to be able to give my speech so that it can be annexed to the proceedings of today's sitting. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u12	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u13	Mr President, senators, senators, I have always been in favour of recognising the rights of homo-affective couples and I would have been prepared to make even more courageous choices in the direction of egalitarian marriage. I do not address the subject of Article 5 on special adoption, let us call it by its name, because I fully recognize myself in the thought expressed yesterday by Senator Filippin and many other colleagues to maintain the text in this formulation. Instead, I want to address perhaps less emotionally disruptive issues but which give substance and body to the bill, namely its financial coverage and the regulation of matrimonial property relations. In fact, some Members have expressed doubts about the financial coverage of the draft law in their speeches. Well, I want to reassure everyone that the Budget Commission had already spoken in July about the coverage of all the articles and we have worked very hard in this direction. In particular, the technical report, which I refer to because I do not have time to go into more detail, has clearly quantified the burden and coverage for the three key issues affecting the balance sheets resulting from the application of Article 3. Firstly, with regard to the deduction of the taxpayer's spouse, I quote from the report to give an idea of the deepening of the issue: "The analysis of the data on the returns of natural persons results in an average deduction per spouse of approximately EUR 690 and a percentage of couples who would benefit from this deduction of 35%, with a hypothesis that 25% of potential couples join these unions. The burden in this case is estimated at EUR 3.2 million. I cannot go into all the other points of the technical report for lack of time, but I would remind you that for the payment of the allowance to the household, it specifies that: "the prudential calculation leads to about 0.4 million euros in 2016" and that for indirect pensions and survivors to the surviving companion, of which much has been said: "with a very analytical calculation you can find an expenditure of 0.1 million euros for 2016 that gradually increases to 6.1 in 2025." You see, ladies and gentlemen, the figures do not at all justify the alarm cries of the detractors of the bill, according to which extending the rights to homosexual couples would have upset public finance. The safeguard clause on social funds is a very small figure. There is no mention of the 16.8 billion of the safeguard clause on VAT and excise duties. I would like to stress here, however, that, even if the burden had been far greater (and this is not the case), it would have been necessary to find cover, because it is a duty to recognise the right of couples to be treated in the same way without discrimination. But I want to end up with something important. A man or a woman, who loved her partner or partner, who built a house, raised children, shared books and memories and who is faced with the serious suffering of the loss of her partner or partner in a life, is now in danger of being in economic difficulties, losing the right to stay in her home and to family income. I always think, and above all, of the less well-off couples, because we turn to them with this provision. In fact, those who need the survivor of the pension of 1,000 euros per month, are not the gays of the upper class recalled by Senator Sacconi. We are not working for them, but for those who do not have the opportunity to access the measures that are already there to protect themselves through generally very expensive notarial acts. Therefore, those who appear in the newspapers because famous singers or actors manage to settle their patrimony issues; those who are not protected at this time, instead, are precisely the most disadvantaged. As we talk about needs, and not just whims, especially for the less well-off couples, this law regulates everyday life, aspects of everyday life, both beautiful ones, how to create your home and a family, but also and above all the difficult moment in which you face the death of your partner. Therefore, since this is a right, we must absolutely address and resolve the issue of the survivor's pension. [[Applause from Senators Engili and Mattesini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u14	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of a text on civil unions, and in particular the adoption of an institution providing for the union of persons of the same sex, has become an untenable requirement in our country. Last among the civil countries of Europe, as reiterated several times, in Italy still lacks a law to protect rights that are both acquired by jurisprudence, that spread in society. We have been meeting here today for months and weeks to finally give legal recognition to realities against which we are in debt, and every day this debt of guarantees and rights is increasing more and more. In fact, we are accumulating a cultural delay, a departure from what is now quietly acquired in our neighbouring countries. We have neglected the profound needs of people, we have denied rights even when the Constitutional Court, ordinary judges and international courts signalled increasingly unacceptable violations of those rights and dismantled the more strictly ideological parts of our legislation. For many years in this House, in that decade of major civil reforms that was that of the 1970s, we have been challenged, we have fought, we have faced visions of the world and of opposing society. Every law that was passed represented a furrow in the Constitution, in the equality of rights and duties, with the aim of increasing the equality and free choice of the individual, the true founding value of a civil society. To quote Stefano Rodotà: Where constitutional equality had been discriminated against, instead of hierarchical powers, the logic of affections was established. However, in the years following that period of perhaps unrepeatable civil reforms, we have seen a reaction that has ideologically involved part of politics and also of Catholic culture, listening to the voices and opinions of the most retrograde and nineteenth-century rights. This long winter of non-reform at the political and cultural level has seen our fellow citizens react from below, who, at the beatings of appeals, appeals to national and international courts, marriages contracted abroad, have tried to send a signal to politics to make decisions and recognize rights that nothing removes from those who are opposed, but that so much offer to those who feel discriminated against in their own country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] As Mrs Cirinna has reminded us, to which my esteem goes and an affectionate greeting for having made herself spokesperson and leader of this important bill, we are here and we are determined to approve the measure under consideration, so that no one can yet say that they feel that they do not exist for his own country. If today we find ourselves condemned and sanctioned by the European Court of Human Rights for the lack of recognition of homosexual couples, it is because for years we have debated, spoken and finally postponed an inevitable choice, perhaps thinking that not recognizing a situation in fact meant denying its existence. Yet, ladies and gentlemen (and I address my colleagues who, strong in certain ethical and ideological positions, declare themselves opposed to the draft law under consideration), echo in my mind the words of Pope Francis, when he asks: who am I to judge? They sound loud because I really would not feel at peace with my conscience as a citizen, as a senator of the Republic, as a mother, if I persisted in not offering protection and rights to that million and more Italians who claim to be homosexuals and against whom you too are obliged to avoid that, if this rule were not to pass into Parliament, either the Constitutional Court or the European Court had to prove that Italian politics is once again behind an already changed social reality. If so many, on several sides, accuse us of having achieved a downward compromise, this happens because for years a law on civil unions and on the recognition of homosexual couples is discussed, revised and finally postponed because of the ideological opposition of those who, in short-sighted way, think that giving rights to someone means taking them away from someone else. Instead, I say that this thought is unacceptable for a democratic country like Italy, because never and never legally recognize more rights constitutes a violation of the rights of others. The essence of justice, in fact, consists in the constant and perpetual will to recognize to each one his right. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that my hope is that this text will be adopted quickly, without whether or not it will be adopted, so that Italy will finally be brought back into line with the most civilised countries in Europe and the world. Finally, I thank Monica Cirinna for the stubbornness and firmness with which she has carried out the bill on civil unions: no threat, no insult, no denigratory campaign have ever arrested her by a single step in her difficult journey. Monica, I'm proud of you. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u16	Senator Gambaro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u17	Mr President, I will begin my speech with the words of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, the Norwegian Thorbjørn Jagland, who has come very hard on this thorny issue which is dividing Italy deeply. Posting on Twitter the link to a judgment of the Court of Strasbourg in October 2015, Jagland says: I encourage Italy to ensure the legal recognition of same-sex couples as laid down in the European Court of Human Rights ruling and as is the case in most Member States of the Council of Europe. Jagland certainly refers to a legal cultural humus of great depth and regulatory depth, which is that of the Council of Europe. In Europe, in fact, many countries have provided different legal solutions for the recognition of relations of stable coexistence between persons of the same sex. The circulation of these legally relevant models has led to the emergence of a number of rules related to the right to sexual freedom, which would lead to an evolutionary interpretation that is sensitive to social changes. In this direction, Jagland referred to the judgment on the so-called Oliari case, on which the Court of Strasbrugo ruled in July 2015. On that occasion Italy was condemned for violating the rights of three gay couples. In its judgment, the European courts unanimously stated that Italy had infringed Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The case concerned three homosexual couples who, led by the president of GayLib, Enrico Oliari, had addressed the Court of Strasbourg after having asked the municipalities of residence to be able to make their publications in order to get married and to have obtained a refusal. Article 8 of the Convention states that: "Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life (...). There can be no interference by a public authority in the exercise of that right unless such interference is provided for by law and constitutes a measure which, in a democratic society, is necessary for national security, public security, the economic well-being of the country, the defence of order and the prevention of crimes, the protection of health or morals, or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. I would add that there are different regulatory provisions contained in this very important regulatory reference, which in several points brings to the attention of the legislator of every single European country the topic we are discussing. In particular, I am reminded of Article 12, which lays down the principle that men and women of marriage age have the right to marry and to establish a family in accordance with national laws governing the exercise of that right. This is, therefore, a forecast which must not be read in isolation, as the postulate of legal equality given by the principle of non-discrimination must also be enhanced. It is the same Article 14 of the Convention that states that: The enjoyment of the rights and freedoms recognised in this Convention must be ensured without discrimination, in particular those based on sex, race, colour, language, religion, political or other opinions, national or social origin, membership of a national minority, wealth, birth or any other condition. I would like to point out here that the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is considered to be the central text on the protection of fundamental human rights, because it is the only one with a permanent judicial mechanism that allows each individual to request the protection of the rights guaranteed there through the use of the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, it is not Europe's interference in Italian affairs, as someone mistakenly wrote, but a pressing need for substantial uniformity to a widespread and central legal culture across the European continent and beyond. All this without forgetting that Article 9 of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights states the right to marry and to set up a family, referring its discipline to individual States, without any specification on the gender identity of those who have such rights. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u18	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to speak on this subject given its impact on the personal values and thinking of each individual. Whenever ethical or moral issues are touched upon, the discussion becomes very complicated. The Northern League Group, as evidenced by the speeches already made by my colleagues, has raised a number of concerns with regard to the measure under consideration. I would like to comment on a few points which I consider important to assess at least from the point of view of constitutionality. Let us remember that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights itself speaks of the family as a fundamental nucleus of society and of the State and that, as such, it must be recognized and protected. If we think about the family, we refer precisely to that first nucleus of society where we all grow and form, which comes before school, the world of work, associationism and all other bodies. It is where we all grow and form, and that is why our Constitutional Charter also speaks of the family, considering it as an institution that precedes the same right. If we read the Constitutional Charter and its various articles we see that all the legislation is inspired to recognize the family as a social subject, especially as a place of generation of children, which is the very guarantee of the existence of our society. To open a parenthesis, this is a historic moment in which there are high birth rates and our families struggle to have children, not because they do not want them, but because society itself seems almost not to guarantee a dimension for children and families with children. We still remember all those rules of our Constitution that look to the family as a pillar on which all local communities and the education system are based. But, if we think about it, many regulations also refer to the family in order to foresee provisions and benefits. I would like to remind my colleagues of Article 29 of the Constitution, according to which the family is a natural society founded on marriage, and we also recall Article 30, which provides for the duty of parents to maintain, educate and educate children born in marriage and Article 31, in which it is said that the Republic facilitates the formation of the family with provisions. If we reread and examine all these norms and read them in a unum, we realize that, in reality, these forms of protection and predictions look at the family according to the generation and procreation of children. The same preparatory work of the constituent assembly uses the adjective "natural", indicating that the family is not an institute created by law, but a formation of natural law, linked to human nature and pre-existing with respect to the state organization. This is important and we must always remember that, although we have freedom as legislators, the legislator cannot create something extremely unnatural that in society is not yet foreseen and does not exist. If we then remember that some individual rights deriving from the marriage institution are not absolute in themselves, but are subordinate to the condition of being married, what is done in the provision (and which, in our opinion, raises the greatest perplexity) is that in the end we talk about civil unions and then we make an almost integral reference to the legislation on marriage. In the Commission, justice has passed the amendment which provides for civil union to be a social formation (a very important pass, with which it is therefore said that it is not the family), but then makes the full reference, with an overlapping of institutions, to matrimonial matter. It is very important to be able to understand the consequences of this call. No one in the North League has ever said that homosexual couples have no right to receive protection and recognition of their union. We have always said that it is necessary - as the European Union itself has imposed - to draw up a discipline and recognize rights and obligations for homosexual couples, but without making a overlap between civil unions as an institution and the institution of marriage; this for a reason not so ideological, religious, spiritual, but in almost technical terms. We believe that civil union should be protected, but that the rights of children should also be protected. At this moment we believe that the concept of family should be limited and ascribed exclusively to families where there is a father, a mother and children. Our concern is that through this bill we give ourselves to actual adoptions by homosexual couples. While we understand, certainly on an emotional level, that there are people who have feelings of affection among themselves, and therefore homosexual couples have a legitimate desire to have a child, we always remember that a desire is not a right. Having a child is not a right: it is the child who has rights. For this reason we believe that the part that recalls the legislation on marriage should be deleted and that, at the same time, we must provide for a discipline that protects civil unions limited to the same relationships, without going to make that call. It is useless to pretend that there are no constitutional principles such as the principle of equality, enshrined in Article 3 of the Constitution, which the Constitutional Court has applied in many decisions, precisely in order to eliminate discriminatory rules relating to equal or homogeneous situations, or containing uniform rules for different cases. Complex words simply to say that, if you make references to the legislation on marriage, how does then any Court, any judge, any ruling to say - even possibly with an excerpt from the famous article 5 and a revision of article 3 - that it is not a marriage, with all the consequences that derive from the case (so, not only stepchild adoption but all adoptions)? The Constitutional Court has already spoken on these issues, and we cannot pretend that this has not happened. We, as legislators, cannot impose the overcoming of the principles of the Constitutional Charter. Or we do - as has already happened - a revision of the Constitution. You wanted to revise the Constitution, as regards the right of the citizens to represent themselves within the institutions, by providing for a second-degree election of the members of the Senate; then, before doing so, you could probably very well go and influence the Constitution also with regard to the definition of family. I would not like to tease you, but I would like to refer to the frequently recalled judgment of the Constitutional Court no. 138 of 2010, cited - also in disproportion - almost in support of the thesis that civil union is a fully constitutional institution, even with reference to the rules on marriage. Just remember some passages of the Supreme Court. When it speaks of social formation, the Court expressly recalls Article 2 of the Constitution, and says that in the concept of social formation it is also to be included the homosexual union, understood as a stable coexistence between two persons of the same sex, with the consequence of obtaining also the legal recognition of the related rights and duties. But it specifies - which I think must be clearly emphasized - that it must be excluded that the aspiration for recognition as social formation can only be achieved through the equivalence of homosexual marriages to marriage. The Court, therefore, excludes that this reference can be made and says that the legislator, therefore Parliament, in exercising its full discretion, can identify the forms of guarantee and recognition of unions, but within Article 2, i.e. as social training and not as a family. Since the family is based on marriage, there is therefore no reference to marriage standards when it comes to social formation and, therefore, civil unions. The Court itself, in relation to the provisions of Article 29, recalling what I have just said, always speaks of a natural society, considering that the family covered by the rule has original and pre-existing rights to the State. It is true that the Court states that the concepts of family and marriage cannot be regarded as 'crystalized' with reference to an epoch (the world changes, customs and customs change, there is an evolution of our society that we cannot deny), but it also says that the interpretation of an article cannot go so far as to affect the core of the norm, modifying it in such a way as to include phenomena and problems not considered in any way when it was issued. At the time of the constituent assembly there was no thought of the formation of a family of homosexual couples, and therefore the notion of marriage in 1942 was necessarily based on the consideration that spouses should be persons of different sex. We must remember that the judgments of the Court for us must be a guide. The Court states that 'this meaning of the constitutional precept' - hence the notion of family - cannot be surpassed by hermeneutical means, because it is not a mere re-reading of the system, but would proceed to a real creative interpretation: we cannot invent the constitutional names, but we must use them as a principle, as the directives to which the legislator must absolutely be inspired. This gives rise to some of the concerns that we continue to highlight in this area. We must try not to confuse our principles, our values and our legal system with emotional, emotional, and sentimental situations. Of course, we understand the needs of all our humanity, but that Article 5 extends the adoption contradicts the same constitutional rules. When we proposed the question for a preliminary ruling, we pointed out that Article 117 of the Constitution states that legislative power is exercised in compliance with Community law and international obligations. Let us remember that the 1989 New York Convention talks about respect for the best interests of the child, the right of the child to link with his parents and, in the event of adoption, a review of the situation of the child in relation to his father and mother. The news on the agenda speaks to us of various and discordant opinions by exponents of the world of psychiatry and psychology, but to us it is sufficient that there are at least doubts about the possibility that a child has the serenity to grow up in a homogenital nucleus. In doubt we must be cautious, we cannot force with a rule the very nature of the progress of human relations and provide for these norms within a bill, among other things without there being any in-depth analysis on the subject of adoptions. A complex and guaranteeing regulation, aimed at protecting the child, the right of the child to have a family, we cannot turn it over without having put in place a process of deepening even with the necessary hearings. For this reason, we believe that the measure under discussion had to return to the Commission to address the issue or to see the possibility of adoption completely removed, in order not to affect at all on a subject and on a fundamental and very delicate institution. For this reason we reiterate our position of extreme opposition, stressing that the message must be passed and must be understood the reason why we believe that, even if the famous article 5 is deleted, the references to Article 3 and the hypothesis of adoption, a mere reference to the norms on marriage at the end involves an equalization of the civil union to that institution, with the possibility that a judgment or a judgment in the future then comes to grant rights as a consequence of such postponement and the recognition of the application, at least normative, of the institution of marriage. It is useless to continue to say, as we often say, that we must reason with other arguments, that Italy is in crisis, that there is the world of workers, exodus and the problems of immigration and security. It is true; but it is also true that certain issues must be addressed with great serenity, without going after the consent of some niche electorate. I think that we are all called to draw up general and abstract laws that take into account all our apparatus and order. If we start to influence systems, values and principles on which Italy has been strong and has become great, we begin to destabilize a whole system. [[Applause from Senators Albertini, Council and Giovanardi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cociancich. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u21	Mr President, a part of our country faces such important issues as those we are debating struggles to recognize itself in the watchwords and slogans of the opposing typhoseries. The squares have been filled and it is right that it has been so, but the squares serve to affirm a presence, to shout a need, a protest, a commitment. I have the greatest respect for the squares but I say that on these issues, which involve the deepest feelings of so many people and the principles around which our society is structured, it would have been good above all to be able to listen and find shared solutions instead of discrediting us - sometimes even insulting us - to each other. 10:57 a.m. (Follows Cociancich). I cannot say that I have certainties, but I can say that I have listened without prejudice to both the reasons of those who strongly support this bill and those who fear its effects. I wasn't alone in this research. I was very impressed, for example, by the letter of over 200 Scout leaders from AGESCI who asked their association - I think they also ask us all - to meet rainbow families, to avoid pontificating without having listened to the request for social recognition, to be able to love and be loved without having to hide, without being discriminated against, to make life plans that are open to others, to be able to raise and protect children, to cultivate projects inspired by a vision of generosity and altruism of which they are capable like anyone else. I believe that an important part of the Catholic world is eager to give full recognition to this demand for dignity and rights and feel like a wound even proper that this has not yet happened. It is neither possible nor acceptable to think of the ideal society as a citadel enclosed in the strongholds of a castle and that one can distinguish between the condition of those inside and who are outside, between the submerged and the saved. Citizens of the world, we think that every man and woman, without any distinction of race or sex, is our citizen and we want everyone to be given the same chance to be happy and, at the same time, co-responsible for the fate of our city, which we call the world. For this reason the caricature that I have heard in this Chamber of a Catholic world that is exclusively bigoted and obscurantist, unable to see people beyond the principles, seems unfair and even annoying. We must move forward, go beyond these fences and prejudices. We must seek common ground of commitment, promote everything that counteracts insecurity, confidence in the future, the courage to invest in long-term projects, whether they are economic aspects, working relationships or sentimental relationships. The sense of insecurity, the fear of losing everything, the feeling of instability paralyzes not only individuals but society itself and makes them both more fragile. Civil unions should therefore be welcomed if they help to give a long-term prospect of mutual engagement to a homosexual couple. Why should we not legitimize, help and support two people who love each other, whatever their sexual orientation, to build a life project in which to fully express their personality, their best feelings, their dreams, the oblative dimension that dawns, in the splendor of the dawn of every life, in the heart of each boy and girl? I want to reiterate my esteem for all those who have taken charge of this important political battle, those who have approached me in recent weeks to express with kindness and discretion, in some cases even with anger and frustration, how much expectation, and how much hope they put in this reform. But in friendship there is no room for reluctance and I feel the need to say that it would be reductive to limit the meaning of this reform to a mere extension of civil rights to those who do not enjoy it today. This reform is not only about individuals, the partners of future civil unions; it is not only about the proper recognition of equal dignity of homosexual couples with heterosexual ones. It has to do with much deeper aspects that concern the structuring of our society, its founding values and that is why it arouses so much debate and in part disconcerted and disturbing. It is precisely the reflection on these aspects that some of my colleagues, who I also appreciate, wanted to take on board, in order to avoid simplifications that easily turn into trivializations. These are opinions and feelings that should not in turn be ridiculed and ridiculed. Sexuality concerns the most intimate aspects of men, women and society itself as it concerns the way in which life is generated and transmitted. Nothing can be more precious and even sacred - meaning the sacred word as a decisive element in the passage from hand to hand between the different generations - than that faint flame that is life. Sacred and precious because each of us, believer or non-believer, in seeking the ultimate reasons for which it exists, breathes, loves, hopes, cannot help but think about the moment in which it was conceived and wondered whether this was the result of an act of free love, of a plan of life, of being expected and wanted precisely by that body of woman who hosted us, formed and nourished in the first moments and in the first months of our existence, or the fruit of a sophisticated artificial reproductive technique; not the encounter between two persons and their bodies, but at most two wills, as happens in a contract. Frankly, it is not the same thing. The generation of life presupposes the encounter and fusion of two differences, the body of a man and the body of a woman. In the beginning of every existence lies this difference. Each of us is inserted into a chain of generations of which we bear trace from our own name. We are part of a story, a humble but necessary link between those who preceded us and those who will come after us. Are we ready to modify this mode of transmission of our personal and social identity? I ask myself the question with fear and trembling, well aware of the extraordinary ability of science to affect also these last aspects of our lives. However, there can be no science without conscience, it can not only be the technique that decides. We need to discern. I believe that a deeper and more balanced reflection on the subject of sonship would have been appropriate. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, after unanimous agreement between the Heads of Group, I would like to inform you that the single sitting on Tuesday 9 February will be brought forward at 12 noon, with no interval and no closing hours, in order to allow the conclusion of the general discussion on the draft law on civil unions, in which many senators are still registered. Consequently, on next Tuesday, the Commissions will be able to convene only outside the session hours of the Assembly, except for urgent situations for which there is unanimity among the Groups. I also warn you that on Wednesday 10 February this morning the Assembly will not hold a session on the occasion of the celebration of the Day of Remembrance, which will take place in the Senate Chamber from 11 a.m. onwards.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u23	Senator Perrone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u24	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on the very sensitive subject we are debating today, it is necessary once again to reiterate our clear opposition. 11:05 a.m. (Follows PERRONE). In this case too, we believe that an important opportunity has been missed to bring the majority of the country and Parliament's views together naturally on a text that is more shared. On the contrary, it has been done, and moreover bad and with the usual fruitless haste that characterizes the entire work of the Renzi Government. The text that is proposed to our attention and to that of the Italians creates useless and forced divisions that go far beyond the normal opposition between adverse political parties. The convergence on the bill, if there is any, is unfortunately the result of other alchemies and improvised agreements that little or nothing, I regret to say, I think have to do with the conscience of many of the senators who will vote for it. The adoption of the text will be rather, and once again, the result of other judgments, responsibilities and forcings. This is very serious, because if we call for freedom of conscience, ladies and gentlemen, we also call for consistency. How many of those who today support the Cirinna text can say that they are consistent with the positions that they only supported yesterday? It is therefore a question of conscience, but - I repeat - also of coherence: consistency with the values underlying your deployments and coherence with the voters who voted for you precisely in relation to those ideals. But no; the theme of civil unions is used for other political matches. The front that supports the bill Cyrinna appears rather a strange and insipid soup that, in addition to breaking the PD (so much to change), impoverishes the palates of those who do not believe the text; but, in the name of renzism, there are those who are willing to swallow any soup by now. To make opposition in Italy, in this historical moment, means - ahinoi - to detect also these anomalies. The criticism of the method remains, as remains, for our part, a sense of responsibility which, despite the times and circumstances, continues to accompany us in making politics. A divisive and contradictory method, therefore, which certainly does not help to improve matters on the merit side of the matter. We have said - and we repeat this - that we are for the recognition of civil unions, but this - be careful - must not mean confusing roles and circumstances, introducing other elements that have only one result: extreme discussion and alienation of the solution. In this precise conviction, we are guided not only by conscience, but also by the will to reason on the effects of a hasty reversal of the foundations of our history, society and the Constitutional Charter. The first paragraph of Article 29 of the Italian Constitution states literally: "The Republic recognizes the rights of the family as a natural society founded on marriage." I repeat: 'natural society based on marriage', we would do well to reread it often and to remind ourselves that we cannot ignore this point. Hence the need, which I referred to earlier, to see in perspective before giving consent and voting; the need to understand whether with this text and, in particular, with an enlargement of the adoption institute we are really protecting minors and creating the ideal conditions for their growth. On this, ladies and gentlemen, the doubts are very strong, to put it elegantly. The most serious thing is that you don't talk about it or pretend you don't talk about it. Of the series: let's think about today and then about what can happen tomorrow someone else will think. But no, our approach is exactly the opposite. We want to understand today what could happen tomorrow and we want to do it not because we are against someone or something (I stress that). We believe - and I have already said this - that it is dangerous to include issues that push the debate further. Let us say that we continue to have specific responsibilities towards the next generations, and to this I echo my reasoning. Have you ever considered the chain scenarios linked to the absence of precise reference points, such as those of mother and father, from generation to generation? Have you seriously considered the possible consequences, without thinking of being the depositaries of absolute truths? Or are there consciously underestimated aspects? Frankly I don't remember particular apprehensions of this type, but only a race to the so-called news. We oppose this and say no. We are and will be opposed, because for us the true protection of those who today have no voice in the matter (the minors) comes first of all; and minors must always be placed in the conditions of having a father and a mother. Without a doubt! The same applies to the protection of women, who are in serious danger of being exploited by the consequences of some too extensive reasonings of the role of mother. We say this without any doubt and without compromise: we are opposed to the hypothesis of commodification of the role of women, which cannot be regarded as a machine to reproduce. The Constitution and our conscience recognize, I repeat, the family as a natural society based on the marriage of man and woman, a privileged place for the growth and education of children, not to be equated with other circumstances. There will be a reason, and I won't tire of saying it. Rather, I wonder why the same vehemence is not used to support large families, women in difficult home-work balance, social welfare policies and those who assist their families with elderly and dependent sick people. To be evil, one might think that yet another fuss has been raised to distract Italians from the inefficiencies of the Renzi Government; that this too is a screen to mask delays and inability? I am thinking, for example, of measures to encourage the birth of new families among young people who wish to do so, but who are unable to do so by economic conditions that are never so unfavourable. What does the government do for them? And please don't quote me the jobs act because you risk falling into ridicule. The effects of the government's so-called industriousness are before everyone's eyes: other than increasing work, there is only an increase in precariousness, lowered screens and, in order to be on the spot, reduced births. Is this having family at heart? Who knows - I say it ironically - if anyone thinks about it. Unfortunately, however, this Government is short of common sense, the same common sense that would have served, as I said in the preamble, not to degrade the role of mother and father, to support the defense of minors and thus to present a different text from this. For now, therefore, we continue to ask ourselves a question: are we aware of the real importance that the family institution, composed of father and mother, has for the present and future subsistence of our communities? Are we aware that it cannot be confused and equated with other institutions without the same cornerstones? Our answer is yes, and that is why, with consistency and conscience, we shall vote against this bill. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u25	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u26	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, before I enter into the substance of the draft law under discussion, I should like to make a few comments. I am surprised, first of all, at the concept that this Government has of democracy. The electoral law by which this Parliament was elected has produced an objective and serious alteration of democratic representation, as the Constitutional Court has pointed out. The President-in-Office of the Council has not even been a candidate for the general elections and the way in which President Renzi became President of the Council is very questionable. Electorally, this government accounts for less than 15% of the country. In this context we would have expected a more responsible, more measured, more sober, more cautious attitude. In other words, we would have expected more respect for the institutions and for the others. It marvels then the rather arrogant, bullying conduct, as masters of the steam. You are not the masters of Italy. This government has no authority, no authority. We see every day the consideration that it collects at an international level. Nevertheless, go forward as a compressor roller; you want to impose wrong choices on the country and absolutely opposed by the majority of the population, bad and dangerous choices. We must also bear in mind that our country is experiencing dramatic economic and social problems. Public debt is in constant and unstoppable growth. GDP is virtually still. It is today the news of the reduction of the forecast of increase for 2016, with a -0.1 percent compared to the forecasts (and we are only in January). We will have another year of zero growth, with millions of people out of work and unemployment rates among the highest in Europe. A frightening youth unemployment. ISTAT said that the unemployment rate in December 2015 was 11.4%. The number of job seekers is 2,898,000, an increase of 18,000; then there are those who no longer seek employment (three or four million): over seven million people who do not work. Moreover, the number of people employed (in December -21,000) also drops and youth unemployment reaches 37.9 percent. We have before us a country split both from a political and social point of view; a country that governs itself with great difficulty. In the face of all this, you use your fleeting majority to impose your beliefs, to break the country even more and tear it apart. You don't realize the damage you're doing. You put the sealing and stability of the system at risk. You proceeded to amend the Italian Constitution without wanting to hear reasons, by majority vote. A majority standing in this House only thanks to the support of a mass of parliamentarians who have been elected to other parties and to other parties, alternative to yours. Today you want to complete a bill (I believe one of the few parliamentary initiatives) that seriously challenges the holding of the majority. Evident are the bad moods within the Democratic Party and within the NCD. This move must necessarily, once again, use the contribution of Members gathered here and there. But where do you think you're going by using a different majority of each measure? To govern there is Alfano; for the reforms there is Verdini; for the civil unions there is Grillo. Faced with the moment we are living, do you really think that the regulation of civil unions and de facto couples is the country's priority? Is it not more urgent to tackle and take measures to support families such as, for example, to adopt the family quotient to tax income or introduce measures to facilitate access to the home for young couples? There are young people who cannot get married because they cannot afford to buy a house or rent one. But do you look at the statistics? Or do you only do it when it suits you? According to ISTAT 1.4 million families are below the poverty line. Would it not be more just and appropriate to help poor families, instead of dealing with the false right of same-sex people to marry? In 2014, 502.596 children were born: 74,000 fewer than in 2008, 12,000 fewer than in 2013. It's a scary drop in births. Italy has reached the bottom of the European ranking for the number of newborns. CENSIS recently presented a study according to which Italians are aware of the difficulties of bringing a child into the world and above all raising him. 83 percent of the economic crisis makes it harder to choose to have a child and the percentage exceeds 90 percent among young people up to 34 years of age. According to CENSIS, Italians are accusing the decline of births of insufficient public policies in support of the family. 61 percent of Italians are convinced that couples would be more likely to have children if they improved public interventions. Tax cuts and direct economic aid are among the main demands for 70% of the people interviewed; 67 percent point to the need to strengthen nursery schools; 56 percent refer to public aid to bear the costs associated with child education (school schools, canteen services, transport). It is the family that must be helped and encouraged, first of all to remedy the serious economic crisis that afflicts our country. It is obvious that married couples are the context that makes it easier to bring children into the world. Solving this problem is the long-term basis for emerging from the crisis. The family exists even before the State and its laws. The moral strength of a country comes from the healthy family, united and with children, who represent the future of the country. The family is the most important social shock absorber and the main educational agency. It must be supported, not abandoned and treated as something else. It is in the family that the person is recognized and responsible and learns sociality. It is therefore clear that energy and resources must be directed primarily towards the promotion and protection of the family. Your concern, on the other hand, is to regulate living together in practice. Why must the state intervene on every aspect of private life? I am deeply opposed and will vote against any article of the measure because I am opposed to the State's interference in private life. Convivial people of the opposite sex marry if they want to have more protection, especially since breaking up a marriage has become simpler and shorter today; if they do not want to assume further responsibilities, they make a private contract. Homosexuals do what they want, they live their lives quietly; no policeman will come to arrest them for their sexual orientations, but they do not expect the State to support them, encourage them, protect them, in the succession and reversibility of their pension. Among other things, the INPS accounts are tragic; who will pay these costs? The retirement age is getting further and further away and we should extend the reversibility? Homosexual couples, if they consider it appropriate, enter into a contract with each other. Article 2 of the Constitution guarantees the rights of individuals who, if they wish, through our legislative system, can subscribe to them by a simple private notary act. Ours is certainly not a country in which protection is lacking. Our Constitution is clear. Article 29 recognizes the family as a natural society founded on marriage; any undue equivalence between the marriage institution and civil unions violates constitutional principles. The constant references contained in the bill to the rules governing marriage show that it is not simply aimed at regulating specific social formations, but at establishing a real homosexual marriage. With the will to impose this provision, there has been an unprecedented ideological attack on the institution of marriage for months: they want to lay the foundations for its forcing going beyond what the constituent Fathers had highlighted as fundamental for the life of the Republic itself. We confirm our full support for the family, which cannot be matched by any other institution or situation. If the European Union asks us to write a law on civil unions, the contents must be drawn up according to our history, culture and sensitivity. You're still in time. Stop. If we fail to stop you, do not be deceived: it will be the Council that will reject this law. The Constitutional Court, in its judgment No 138 of 2010, was clear on this point: homosexual unions cannot be considered homogeneous to marriage. The other insurmountable question is represented by Article 5 of the bill, concerning stepchild adoption, i.e. the possibility of adoption of children also for same-sex couples, extending the institute already provided for heterosexual couples by Law No 184 of 4 May 1983. This question is certainly not a right, but a wish: the child's superior interest is replaced by the presumed right to have a child. It is obvious the damage that would be done to the child without one of the two parenting figures. It is the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child approved in 1989 that establishes the best interests of the child. The complementarity of parental figures is essential for the development of an individual. Yesterday, the President of the Italian Society of Pediatrics represented the risks that may arise from cohabitation with parents of the same sex, so that the psychic and relational development in the evolutionary age of children could be put in difficulty. Recognizing this right, the way will be opened to legitimize the practice of surrogacy, i.e. of the uterus for rent, currently prohibited in our legal system, but allowed in others. And what does this mean if you don't rip a child out of her mother a few days after she was born? In fact, if a couple of people of the same sex cannot have children (this is a normal evidence of nature), how can one of the two partners have a child so that the other can adopt it? Evidently, a uterus outside the pair will have to be used. There will be numerous children commissioned and purchased to be fatherless or motherless. We're talking about kids, people. In addition to representing a serious form of commodification of human life, especially of women, this is one of the greatest cruelty that can be inflicted on children. 11:29 a.m., followed by CERONI. For years we have struggled and affirmed that women have their dignity, surpassing the conception of mere child-generating. And now we would be able to accept that for money women, especially in the poorest countries, carry those children who will then be bought by a homosexual couple? A state cannot be described as civil if it endorses such a practice. The participation of citizens in the demonstration last Saturday should make you understand that you are on the wrong track. The protection of the family and children's rights are not negotiable values. Children have the right to have a mother and father, and with this bill you assume the responsibility of destroying the institution of the family. After trampled on the principle underlying democracy for which it is the citizens who, through the vote, choose their rulers, after massacred the Constitutional Charter, after having Scritically fed the migratory flows, after having cancelled the value of saving by making tens of thousands of savers lose the sacrifices of a life, after feeding for years the hunt for businesses determining their mass closure, after having imposed economic choices that are bringing the country to its knees, now you want to destroy also the value of the family. Where do you want to go? But don't you understand that, by continuing to destroy values and principles and by continuing to demolish those few remaining pillars that govern society, our country will be invincible? Stop while you're in time. Tito Livio said: "The bold and impetuous decisions at first fill with enthusiasm, but then they are difficult to follow and disastrous in the results." AIROLA (M5S). You mean your third wife? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u27	Madam President, in my speech I wish to highlight the contradiction - which must be documented - concerning the fact that we are not in the presence of a draft law on civil unions, but rather a text which introduces a real paramarriage, precisely contradicting the intentions of the proposers and, above all, the result of the constitutional dictation, the subsequent judgments of the Constitutional Court already mentioned, but also the recent judgment of the Court of Cassation in 2014. My insistence on this point clearly serves to highlight the fact that politically speaking there is no contradiction in the fact that the legislator wants to guarantee homosexual couples in Italy the actual marital condition, but this happens in contempt of the judgments that have been there, so, if it is politically legitimate, this intention should be supported by the proposal of a real law of constitutional revision that, moreover, could have been included in the path of constitutional changes that we have undertaken for some time. Is it true or not that the law text - i.e. articles concerning the first part - introduces not civil unions but a paramarriage? It is true, because in the articles concerning the first part to every effect to the civil union apply all the legal provisions provided for marriage, at the moment with the exception of the possibility to adopt. And it is true, because in the text of the first articles it is clearly recited that the parts of the civil union between persons of the same sex establish the surname of the family, choosing it from their surnames, and the same is preserved during the widowing state. Attention, because the use of the widow's term for the surviving partner is all too eloquent; "vedovo" or "vedova" is, according to the vocabulary, the subject to whom the spouse died, but the spouse is there if there is marriage upstream, confirming that marriage is being disciplined even if civil union is appointed. In other words, we are in the presence of an operation of legal nominalism which implies legitimate political intentions, but which could not be confirmed except by a constitutional rule. Again: In the legitimate succession, the same rights as the spouse are also the responsibility of the party linked to the deceased by a civil union between persons of the same sex and then the Government is delegated to implement the reform by its own decree, taking into account, among others, the following principle "in the matter of the law of the civil state... the acts of civil union between persons of the same sex be preserved by the official of the civil state together with those of the marriage" As you can see, therefore, it is an equalization to all intents and the counterproof comes just by looking at articles that concern the discipline of cohabitations between persons of the same sex or other sex. This is a part of the law that provides for a light regulation compared to that of the first articles and seems more appropriate to the choice made by two people of different sex who do not intend to assume on themselves all the duties deriving from the marriage union. This second part of the basic text confirms - if you have doubts about the substantive objective of the first - that one account is coexistence, another is civil partnership; one account are real civil unions appointments, another is the construction of a system substantially equal to marriage. On the other hand, the first articles relate exclusively to persons of the same sex, and instead to others, persons of the same or different sex. This happens, quite clearly, because according to the law in force people of different sex have the right to choose between the regime of cohabitation and that of marriage. Still under applicable law, people of the same sex have no alternative to living together. The first articles, in short, if they do not qualify as marriage that type of civil union, fill a presumed gap and give the same-sex people the same option option. The question I am asking myself at this point is whether this discipline represents an obligatory translation into law of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and the Court of Cassation. In order to answer the question, and without going back much further, it is useful to resume the recent judgment of the Court of Cassation of October 2014. The case on which the decision was taken is, as is well known, that of two persons of the same sex who had asked to proceed with the marriage publications; the request, rejected by the civil servant, had not been accepted in the degree of merit. The applicants complained of the violation of the principle of equality laid down in Article 3 of the Constitution, because the refusal of publications would result in discrimination based on a personal condition, and Article 2 of the Constitution, because it would not protect the full development of a relational sphere of a constitutive character in a social formation such as the union between two persons of the same sex. This is at a time when this type of union has constitutional protection and is widely recognised by international and European sources. For this reason, the violation of Articles 10 and 117 of the Constitution and Article 9 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 12 of the ECHR was also mentioned. The heterosexual paradigm, according to the applicants, would have been crumbled for some time thanks to Italy's membership in a multi-level system of protection of rights: this system would have introduced in our legal system a notion of marriage including that of homosexual persons. The cassation dealt with the reasons for the appeal, first taking up the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 138 of 2010, and recalled that, according to that decision, Article 12 of the ECHR and Article 9 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union leave the choice to the national legislator to establish the legal forms and rules of unions between persons of the same sex [[Brusio]] If I may continue my speech, with the courtesy of Mr Puglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u28	Senator Puglia, you're disturbing the speaker.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u29	Please, Senator Mauro, continue. MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). These choices are fully within the discretion of individual States, and the imposition of a single regulatory model to be drawn from the marriage paradigm should be excluded for this specific type of union. According to the cited judgment n. 138 of the Consulta, the non extension of the matrimonial model to the unions between persons of the same sex does not harm the integrated parameters of human dignity and equality, which assume - I quote - equal importance in the individual situations and in relational situations falling within the constitutionally protected social formations ex Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution. Social formation, according to the Court, must mean any form of community, simple or complex, suitable to allow and promote the free development of the person in the relationship life, in the context of a valorization of the pluralistic model. This notion also includes homosexual union, as a stable coexistence between two persons of the same sex, whose fundamental right is to live freely as a couple, obtaining legal recognition with the related rights and duties - in the times, in the ways and within the limits laid down by law. It must be excluded, however, that the aspiration for such recognition (...) can only be achieved through the equalisation of homosexual marriage unions. The Cassation adds that in the above-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court, there is the express recognition of the constitutional importance, pursuant to Article 2 of the Constitution, of the unions between persons of the same sex, and is returned to the legislator, in the exercise of his full discretion, to identify the forms of guarantee and recognition for homosexual unions, together with the possibility of the same Consulta to intervene to protect specific situations. Also for the Judge of legitimacy, the process of constitutionalization of unions between persons of the same sex is not based, contrary to what the applicants claim, on the violation of the anti-discrimination canon dictated by inaccessibility to the matrimonial model, but on the recognition of a common core of rights and duties of assistance and solidarity proper to the affective relations of couples. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mario Mauro, you should start finishing your speech. MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Madam President, may I ask you how many minutes have been allowed for my speech? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Ten minutes, for group indication. MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). I shall then start quickly at the conclusion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you think so, you may request that the written text of your speech be attached to the Reports of today's sitting. MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Certainly, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). The sense of reality and the Constitution prevent the equivalent of equal institutions in all respects, such as marriage and cohabitation; nor can that statute be a marriage under another name, as the Undersecretary of State pointed out to the Presidency of the Council, Mr Scalfarotto, who, in an interview of 16 October 2014 in La Repubblica, stated clearly: "Civil union is not a lower marriage, but the same thing. Under another name for a matter of realpolitik. In conclusion, I would say that, instead of relying on realpolitik, if we are to promote to the rank of marriage the experience of civil unions, we must at all costs take the path of a constitutional revision law. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u30	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u31	Madam President, I believe that we must all remember that our democratic coexistence is based on the Constitution and I believe that it must be a beacon for everyone in this House. I stick, as others have done, to one of the articles of the Constitution that is particularly significant for our debate, namely Article 3 of the Constitution, but I do not read the first part, but the second part: It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person. The removal of obstacles to the freedom and equality of citizens is therefore our task, the reason why we are here today. Making our Constitution live means adapting laws to a changing society, in order to give substance and full value in particular to the fundamental principles of the first powerful and beautiful ten articles of the Constitution that, as we all know, cannot be changed but implemented. Denying the need for a preamble to the Charter to specify what philosophy inspired it, Nilde Iotti said: The Constitution cannot have an ideology or a philosophy of partisanism. He addressed those who claimed that the Constitution was inspired by the principles of natural law and that, therefore, the philosophy of jusnaturalism was at its base. I would remind everyone in this House that Iotti was among the Mothers who made up the articles about the family, and already at that time we were discussing children who were not expected to be in the so-called natural family. The Constitution, therefore, alone, must guide us in these choices, because the path it indicates represents the civil religion on which our nation is based and strongly traces the boundary between the field of personal convictions and the secularism that must guide the intervention of the legislator to open spaces of freedom, duty and rights for citizens. The debate these days has been marked by a level of conflict and political controversy that unfortunately has offered a lot of space to exasperations and provocations, and not enough to common sense. Some say that this bill does not deserve the attention that Parliament is giving it, that there are more important issues. Some say that you want to upset the idea of family, put women in danger, complicate the contexts of children's growth. Someone says we're splitting the country and we should stop. It's not like that. We are uniting the country, eliminating fences and discrimination to make it a richer, fairer and more inclusive country, where there are more equality, more responsibility and more rights. We are making the most of the family, so much so that, in addition to allocating resources so far unknown, we want it to be possible to have one for all those who love each other. We want to protect and defend minors, and every consideration made, like every single letter in the text of the law, goes in that direction. I want to be clear on one point. We want to give every child a family, not every family a child. That's the real point. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Taverna]] We, in short, want a better and more just country and a law that recognizes and gives dignity to all people. Leaving everything as it is today means accepting inequalities and injustices motivated only by sexual orientation and it means leaving our country as a taillight in Europe, the victim of constant calls from the courts and tribunals; it means for politics to give up its role once again. The point is not to build a different reality through laws, but to make new ones to recognize what is moving in society, to give life and continuity to the values of our Charter. If all citizens are equal, as the Constitution says, why are some denied the recognition of the affective and family bond they have with another person? If all children are equal because some have less protection than others and are condemned to live in discrimination? If these rights are recognised throughout Europe, why is it not the same for Italian homosexual couples and their children, children of Italians? Because, unfortunately, for too long politics has been afraid of confronting change, afraid of recognizing it! He preferred to deny it, as if it did not exist, by tolerating unfair discrimination and unjustified suffering. That is why this is urgent for us: it has been so for at least thirty years, since the first presentation of a law that recognized homosexual unions in these classrooms. For us, the freedom and equality of citizens is an urgent matter, such as children's rights, the protection of minorities, the quality of life of people. But do you not see that our children, the grandchildren, look at us strangely as we discuss things that are already clear to them? They already know that love is always the same and for them it is normal that it has the same protection, always. Look out these windows, listen to the voices of the girls and boys who are down here with their smiles, colored flags, their signs. They are there to bring the witness of the struggle for rights and equality, to ask to be like everyone, not to be condemned by the State to have less protection than others because of their sexual orientation. What do we answer to those who have been discriminated against to date, as well as in society also by law? Let us all suck together in our consciences; look at those guys, go talk to them, listen to them: I do not think you will find the courage - for those who do not agree - to close the door to their faces once again. We must all go beyond the selfishness that would like to project our personal convictions onto society and know how to look at it with humanity and empathy. We need to be able to listen to her. Try to get help from the eyes of the younger ones or to think what you would like if your son or nephew were homosexual: a state of his enemy or one that does not discriminate against him and allows for a peaceful and happy life? I don't think there's two answers to that question. There are those who want to continue to divide society by letting certain rights remain privileges. Yeah, at this point, if they're not everyone's, they're privileges. We don't. We want them to be for everyone and we want them with the same strength for adults and children, to whom our responsibility and attention is even stronger. I'd like to read you the words of Marilena, a rainbow mother: Today you must be aware of one thing: if you vote yes, you are not changing the history of this country; it has already changed. If you vote yes, you are not changing the family, it has already evolved. I will be a happy woman," Marilena says, "only when I am nailed to my duties as a mother to all my children, to what I bore with my belly, as those I bore with my heart. They're my children exactly the same way. In the same way I love them; I take them to school; I take care of them every day, I help them to study, I cuddle them if they have a fever... I'm their mom without "if" and without "but." We want to be able to look after our children without anxiety, to be able to stand by their hospital bed if there is a need, to be able to authorize a school trip, to go to school without the need for a humiliating delegation. We want them to inherit from our parents if anything happens to us. We want, in short, what every parent wants: that our children be serene and protected - like everyone else. These children are not ideologies, thesis or political strategies: they are real children, in the flesh, with two legs, two arms, a mind and a heart. Flavio, Bea, Alessandro, Lia and many others are already among us today, what you have to decide is whether tomorrow they will be citizens of this country like everyone else. We - you always say - are confident, confident that this Parliament will do what it has to do: the first step towards full equality, the first step towards civilisation. Colleagues and colleagues, I am also confident, because I recognise in this Parliament a strong renewing force, starting with all the women present. And it is no coincidence that the majority of women present in this Senate are in favour of this bill, because they have a different humanity from a different part of mankind. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] I am proud of it, as I am proud to be able to finally vote on the bill. Few lines, which will change the lives of many. You see, ladies and gentlemen, voting on this law will not be the victory of a minority, but of the whole country, because it would give happiness and serenity to many, without taking away any. I believe that this is the most beautiful thing that can happen with the honour of being in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Finally, two reflections: one concerns the serious struggle on the independence, autonomy and freedom of women against what is called the womb for rent. I remind those in this House that what happened in Paris is part of a reality in which there is marriage and full adoption and respect for differences. That must be known, because otherwise bad information is made. Secondly, I would like to address Senator Cirinna, thanking her for being here. I apologize for all the personal bad words; personal, not political: the political dialectic and also the political force of our debate is healthy, it is legitimate, it is democratic and it is nice to have different opinions as well. What is not acceptable is to have heard - and I hope it will not happen again in the next few days - a language (as a matter of fact it comes mainly from male senators), inside and outside this House (I am also referring to the director of Radio Maria), which insults exactly the person Cirinna. Why? Because she's a woman. If the first signatory of the bill had been a man they would not have allowed it, they would have waged a tough political battle, in a very strong way from the point of view of the contents, but there would have been no contempt for the person. I apologize for them. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-AEcT Groups. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u33	Madam President, I am speaking on this draft law and, in particular, on the adoption of children by homosexual couples, because it seems to me that this is the most straightforward, hottest issue that is fascinating the political debate and I do not want to do so by using a political approach. The issue of civil rights is very much at heart in that progressive area of which I belong, but many colleagues before me have addressed the political issue. I would like to deal with it from a scientific point of view, Madam President. Well, in a Chamber in which the words of the Bible are echoed, I believe, on the other hand, that the words of science should be echoed; I have the right to think that, since this is the Parliament of a secular State, the scientific positions must be held in the highest consideration by us political decision-makers. Among other things, the topic is extremely topical, because yesterday's articles on the media reported some statements by the president of the Italian Society of Pediatrics, Dr. Corsello, and the timely replica of the Association of Italian Psychologists. Let's start, therefore, from the review of scientific studies that have been concerned for decades with the psychosocial development of children of homosexual couples. The American Psychological Association (APA) of psychologists is the largest organization that represents the scientific and professional psychology of the United States. APA is the world's largest association of psychologists, with more than 137,000 researchers, educators, doctors, consultants and students among its members. In 2005, APA published a study entitled "Lesbian and gay parenting" which can be translated into "Being lesbian and gay parents," which summarizes all the scientific research carried out so far in the field of homosexuality in general and homosexual parenting. The introduction states that systematic scientific research on lesbian and gay adults and comparison with heterosexual adults begins at the end of 1950, with the pioneering study Evelyn Hooker (1957), continues today and has led to the declassification of homosexuality as a mental disorder in 1973. Consider, colleagues: all of us were born into a world that considered homosexuality a disease. Think how different that world was from now on. Our Constitution was also born in a world where homosexuality was considered a disease. I then address those colleagues who are carrying out the argument that equal treatment of marriage is not possible, precisely because of what is written in our Constitution. When we talk about the reform of the Constitution, rather than voting on the heavy manipulations of the democratic order of this country, don't you think that perhaps we should deal with making to the Constitution those changes that would allow it to align not only with the common feeling, but also with what scientific research has found in this field? I leave you with this question. It is also stated in the report that research projects comparing children of gay and lesbian parents with those of heterosexual parents are of a more recent age. Studies began to appear in psychiatric literature in the early 1970s and have continued to be published ever since. Starting from the pioneering work of Martin and Lyon (1972), the studies have taken care of lesbian mothers and gay fathers, but also the children of lesbians and gay parents and have developed into a considerable body of research since the mid-1990s. I now go to the summary and conclusions of the report, which, among other things, includes a bibliography of 151 articles in international scientific journals dealing with homosexual parenthood: we read that the results of research carried out so far suggest that children of gay and lesbian parents have positive relationships with peers and their relationships with adults of both sexes are satisfactory. The picture that emerges from scientific studies on children of homosexual couples is that of a general involvement in social life with peers, parents, grandparents and adult parents of their friends, both male and female, both heterosexual and homosexual. The report concludes that, in summary, there is no evidence that suggests that lesbian women or gay men are unfit to be parents or that psychosocial development among children of lesbian or gay women is compromised compared to that of children of heterosexual parents. There is no single study that has found that children of lesbian or gay parents are significantly disadvantaged compared to children of heterosexual parents. The evidence to date suggests instead that the home environments created by gay and lesbian parents are as good as those created by heterosexual parents in order to support and allow the psychosocial growth of children. This is what concludes the study of the American Association of Psychologists. Moreover, the thing that struck me is that surprisingly this review presents a study by Gartrell that deals in particular with the issue of bullying among the children of homosexual couples, bullying that actually exists. According to the study what may be most surprising is the finding that children of same-sex couples are thriving and flourishing, even if they live in a world that is often intolerant with their parents. Children's resilience to these bullying phenomena can, in part, be explained by their parents' efforts to protect them and prepare them for homophobia. In order to create a space free from homophobia for these children, lesbian moms had to interact with their pediatricians and their babysitters. They are active in the school system and ensure that there are training modules in schools that support diversity. All this means, ultimately, being good parents. That's how the study ends. Well, that's what was said until 2005. From then on, there has been further scientific research, which has done nothing but confirm the picture that had already emerged. In 2006 the American Academy of Pediatrics - perhaps we should say this to the president of the Italian Society of Pediatrics, who yesterday intervened in this regard - stated the following: " (..) there is no relationship between the sexual orientation of parents and any kind of measure of the emotional, psycho-social and behavioural adaptation of the child". These data show that a child growing up in a family with one or two gay parents does not take any specific risk. "Adults who are conscientious and capable of providing care, whether men or women, heterosexuals or homosexuals, can be excellent parents." Similarly, in 2009, the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry intervened, concluding that "For a long time it has been established that homosexual orientation is in no way related to any pathology" and that "studies on the educational outcomes of children raised by homo or bisexual parents, compared with those raised by heterosexual parents, do not lay down for a different degree of instability in the parent-son relationship or evolutionary disorders in children." Finally, in 2011, the Italian Association of Psychology recalled that "The results of psychological research have long documented how the psychosocial well-being of members of family groups is not so much linked to the form that the group assumes, as to the quality of the processes and relational dynamics that are updated within it. In other words, it is neither the number nor gender of parents - whether adoptive or not - who in themselves guarantee the best conditions of development for children, but their ability to assume these roles and the educational responsibilities that result from them. In particular, psychological research has shown that what is important for the well-being of children is the quality of the family environment that parents provide to them, regardless of whether they are living together, separated, remarried, single, of the same sex. Children need adults who can guarantee their care and protection, teach the sense of the limit, promote both the experience of belonging and that of autonomy, negotiate conflicts and differences, overcome uncertainties and fears, develop emotional and social skills. These are the evidence of science that has emerged from decades of scientific studies! Coming now to the controversy unleashed yesterday by Dr. Corsello, president of the Italian Society of Pediatrics, who said that homosexual couples are not suitable for the psychosocial development of the child, well, meanwhile we remember that the same Corsello, a few hours away from the first note and after the position taken by the American Association of psychologists who, as we have said, resigning copious scientific literature in this regard has publicly denied it, has specified in a second note the need to evaluate case by case. He said: "Affirming that it cannot be excluded that cohabitation with two parents of the same sex can have a negative impact on the harmonic growth of children does not mean that two homosexual subjects cannot guarantee a child affectivity and educational standards in line with normal development." In addition, Dr. Corsello is well aware of the studies that support his original thesis, subsequently partially denied. I then did the exercise for him and went to search pointly if there are studies in that regard. Well, in reality there are only two studies, that of Dr. Loren Marks, of the University of Louisiana, that in 2012 attacked the report of the American Association of Psychologists, but quoting only 59 of the 151 studies presented there, among other things claiming that the conclusions are not wrong, but that many of those studies are based on few samples and therefore little significant from the statistical point of view. Then there is the famous study by Mark Regnerus who, stimulated by Dr. Marks' study, presented a sample of 12,000 homosexual couples, but it was then discovered that, according to the selection criteria he adopted, he included in the study not true homosexual couples, who live a homosexual relationship, classifying as homosexual couples - think! - even single mothers who claimed to have had a homosexual experience in their lives. It is therefore an extremely weak study. Moreover, the same author distanced himself from the way in which this study was used in Russia to promulgate openly homophobic laws. Well, ladies and gentlemen, science has taken a clear position, but scientists have to make scientists and politicians have to make political decision-makers and so we will decide according to our conscience. But beware, ladies and gentlemen: all too often politics has taken decisions without taking account of the scientific orientation on the subject and this has always resulted in great disarray, both historically and in this parliamentary term and I simply quote the case of stamina, which concerns us more closely. We'll decide according to conscience. Sure. But remembering that we will have the great responsibility, not only before our voters, but also in the face of posterity for having made anti-scientific decisions. Four centuries ago a court condemned what today is universally believed to be the father of science based on laws at the time in force and on a vision of the world that today has completely changed. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to be a new inquisitor today. I'm not in. For this reason I will strongly express my yes to the bill Cirinna. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-SEL groups and Senator Campanella. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u35	Madam President, I rise to express my opposition to the establishment of this draft law which is being brought to the attention of the House for a number of reasons which, in fact, have also been well highlighted by a number of colleagues who have preceded me both today and yesterday and Tuesday. There are times when, as political decision-makers, we must take responsibility for choices that can certainly influence the development of society in the years and decades to come. That of today, and that of the next sessions, is one of these occasions. It is one of those moments when we have to carefully assess the proposal before us and see what the positive or negative repercussions can be for all citizens. For the truth, this should be done for all the rules with the utmost attention, but we know, and we cannot hide it, that the greatest attention is often paid exclusively to those legislative proposals which have a particular echo in public opinion and therefore are followed directly by citizens who want to understand their future and, above all, what are the reasons that lead each of us to take certain choices. These are often personal choices, born more from a personal conviction than from political membership; born from a way of seeing our society and of trying to direct its future and that belong, if we want, also to the history of each of us. Talking about civil unions, marriage rather than cohabitation, talking about natural families, marriages between men and women or between people of the same sex is certainly one of the issues that today, let's say, is important with regard to a part of public opinion and is considered by the majority an issue that has its urgency. Perhaps the urgency, from a political point of view, should be reserved for other issues, labour, social and immigration issues as well as many other more urgent issues. But - so much - in the face of this new axis that has been created on the urgency of the approval of the bill Cirinna we are today confronting ourselves on this topic. It is a theme that is not secondary anyway, because none of us wants to prevent people from living their affections freely - we would miss something else - and also their sexuality, in compliance with the norms, and in this regard, of course, I refer to the protections for minors that are fundamental. We don't care what everyone does at home. We are interested, instead, what can be the declination in the social context, and therefore towards all citizens, of rights that may be recognized to unions that are not marriages, are civil unions, are something that the Undersecretary Scalfarotto defines as important as marriages and someone else, instead, defines weddings of series B. Again, within the same non-political but parliamentary majority that is carrying out this measure, there is no unanimity in the assessment. There are situations that need to be addressed by questioning one's conscience. The question of stepchild adoption, which is not marginal, has just been mentioned. Perhaps this parliamentary majority will be forced, in the case of voting with the secret vote, to look at reality in the face, that is to say the fact that the country does not go in that direction and that, therefore, in this House there could be a different majority than that desired by Mrs Cirinna on this particular article of the bill in our examination. Moreover, the polls published in the media show the understanding and conviction of our public opinion. This must not, however, affect us, but must encourage us to reflect and identify the correct solution. The issue of hereditary assets, rather than the rights to survivor's pensions, are other issues that need to be addressed quietly. Often this cannot be done, because on topics like these there is a sort of tendency to scream and to make one's opinion prevail, trying to use the medium of the voice, the high tone, the volume. And that is wrong, because these discussions may need to be addressed calmly, because they are important issues that require the calmness necessary to address sensitive issues. Of course, there is nothing to take away from those who are rooting for one solution, on the one hand, rather than another. It is also wrong to quote studies on the one hand and on the other; and it is wrong that if the president of the Italian Society of Pediatrics makes a statement, immediately we must attack him because he made a statement that is not acceptable. Just as it is wrong to refer to the higher level of Europe, which advises us, invites us and invites us to follow the example of other countries, perhaps just as far as the content of this bill is concerned. It is also because, frankly, we all know the consideration that the Europe of our citizens has today. Therefore, I do not think that, given the current situation, a council that comes from Europe (where Europe is the institution that, rather than another body, is the Council of Europe, is worth little) can be a weapon brought in for the approval of this measure. Or, we should talk to those who, while sharing the structure of this bill, perhaps, as I know them (and I know some of them), even though they are homosexual, who live their lives and require some more rights than those they have now, are realistic and claim that they are not asking and that it is not right for them to ask to adopt children. It's a choice. They too, within them, rightly argue as we do. So I believe that this long journey, which perhaps will lead us to the adoption of this bill, will be an important moment for all of us, for confronting ourselves in this House, but above all outside, as citizens, everyone here convinced of making the right choice; everyone convinced of defending a model of society; everyone convinced, however, also that the choices made here will certainly condition the future life of our citizens for the next decades. So our job is to make the right choice. For us, and for me above all, the contents of the Cirinna bill do not represent the correct path that the country must follow.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u36	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet Bagdat Akhylbekov, First Secretary of the Embassy of Kazakhstan, who is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u37	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I give you my opinion. I do not have, of course, revealed and indisputable truths, but if I look at what is happening around us as our debate continues, what do I see? I see that the Western world is crossed by a telluric movement, by an earthquake comparable, for intensity and effects, to the process that in the first half of the last century led to full female citizenship. Today, throughout the West, the public recognition of the right of homosexuals to live in complete freedom their sexuality and their relationship as a couple is on the agenda and everywhere is also the recognition of their ability to constitute a place of intimacy, solidarity, love - in other words, a family - that does not exclude the presence of children to be raised and educated. In many countries, we have moved from legalization of civil unions to equal access to marriage. In Ireland a constitutional referendum was even held and the Supreme Court of the United States last June decided that state laws prohibiting gay marriage are unconstitutional under the fourteenth amendment of the American Constitution, that on the equality of all citizens before the law. A sentence, that of the Supreme Court, which once again took responsibility for changing the face of Western civilization and which counsel to read, because it tells us that the Catholic humanistic vision is not the only one possible. There are other possible humanistic visions no less rich, no less profound, such as that which sees in the family a precious and strong reality precisely because it is able to change and open itself to new vital experiences. This is what gives strength and legitimacy to the change of opinion, which is now majority and irresistible in all Western countries, in favour of same-sex unions. The history of marriage is a story of continuity and change, a reality that has changed with changing the role and status of women. These changes have strengthened and not weakened the family institution. The decisions that concern marriage - starting with the decision whether and with whom to marry - are among the most intimate that an individual can make, among the most important in our self-definition. Those choices form our individual destiny and two people together, as the Supreme Court of the United States emphasizes, can find in that bond, however you call it, other freedoms (expression, intimacy, spirituality) and this is true for all people, regardless of their sexual orientation. Against this background, the Italian situation is now very unusual. As the front of countries that recognize marriage is widening, Italy does not yet have even a regulation of unions. I do not deny that graduality is necessary; with regard to the international situation, the bill we are debating is, in fact, a compromise solution and is placed in a rather moderate point compared to the laws of other countries: there is no egalitarian marriage and there are no adoptions. The adoption of the partner's child by the other is only a common sense rule that aims to guarantee children who already live in the couple the continuity of affection. It is objected that stepchild adoption would be an encouragement to surrogacy, prohibited in Italy, but legal in many other countries. However, same-parent families exist and this is a standard made to protect children who are already there. It is not by chance that there is already a case law that is being consolidated and if the rule does not pass through Parliament, the judges would consider it, on a case-by-case basis or with a referral to the Constitutional Court. The uterus for rent is prohibited by Law No. 40 of 2004 and is not affected by the project under discussion. Moreover, as opposed to surrogacy, putting the burden of this disapproval on the law for civil unions is completely foolish, since it is mainly heterosexual couples who resort to it. Do they want to put additional stakes? All right, but be careful: it is completely unrealistic to propose that surrogacy be transformed into a crime that can be prosecuted even when committed abroad. Banning it is a rhetorical figure, because there is no unified framework in Europe and there is no legal basis for building it: in family law the Member States have ample autonomy, just think of the differences in the regime of assisted procreation, as we know. In real terms it means returning to the discrimination of the born according to the form of their conception, which repels our legal and moral conscience. If we really want to discourage surrogate motherhood, we should also consider the possibility of full adoption for homosexual couples, as is the case in many countries of solid legal civilization. If it is said that the child must have a mother and a dad, then the question is another: it is not a question of surrogacy, but of the parenthood of gay and lesbians. What you refuse is the very possibility that homosexual couples can be good parents. This resistance is probably the index that most faithfully measures the ideas and prejudices we have about homosexuality. I speak of prejudices because there is now a large amount of scientific research available that, based on the experiences in North America and Europe, shows that children raised in homosexual families are as sane and socially integrated as those raised in heterosexual families. I speak of prejudices because at a time when I recognize that homosexuality is not a disease, nor a disease, if we do not consider more immoral the intimacy between two people of the same sex and if this conviction is no longer, as in the past, embodied by criminal law, then I must admit within my culture a variant of family system that is not mine, the one in which I grew up. And the State must grant such fundamental interests of the person. It is a right that gives dignity to couples who, to use the words of the Supreme Court, wish to define themselves through their commitment to each other.It is a right that responds to the universal fear that a single person can call help only to discover that there is no one next door; a right that offers the hope of a company, of understanding and of the assurance that while both still living, there will be someone to take care of the other. I would add that thinking of curbing the strong push for the recognition of homosexual couples is an illusion. Italy is not a closed and separate place and necessarily lives the same dynamics as other Western countries. The transformations of the family that in the last century, precisely as a result of the changed social role of women, have affected all the countries of the West necessarily involve our country and it is vain to think of ignoring them. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u39	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u40	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law on civil unions has already received many contributions and ideas from those who have preceded me in recent days in this House. It is a delicate subject, which deeply touches the intimate convictions of conscience and this explains why even parties are crossed by divergent opinions and different shades of thought. There is no doubt that the time has come to provide our legal system with a discipline that can protect homosexual couples. The legislator must take into account the changes that take place within our society, as has already been the case in many other countries. If there is almost unanimous agreement to give recognition to same-sex couples, differences arise, however, when the draft law under consideration is analysed on the merits. There are three points that we consider most critical, which must be considered in order to fully understand the scope and the possible negative effects of the bill. First of all, the legal protection that is intended to guarantee homosexual couples is, to all intents and purposes, equivalent to that granted to the institution of marriage. In fact, according to the bill, it is a question of transferring to civil unions the same rights and duties that our law gives to spouses, including the obligation of fidelity and, even more problematic, the right to a survivor's pension, which raises serious questions about financial cover. But, beyond these first legal and economic remarks, the attempt to equate civil unions with marriage risks being unconstitutional, because of the conflict with Article 29 of the Constitution, for which the Republic recognizes the rights of the family as a natural society founded on marriage. The Constitutional Court, moreover, in judgment 138 of 2010, established that it is necessary to provide for the protection of homosexual couples, but keeping them separate from marriage, given the indispensable procreative purpose of marriage that is worth to differentiate it from homosexual union. Marriage is that between a man and a woman, while civil union is another, so it needs a specific discipline and at the same time different. Secondly, it is not at all acceptable to have a regulatory framework for stepchild adoption, because it is a source of dangerous distortions. The most obvious risk is that homosexual couples resort to a surrogate pregnancy, otherwise referred to as "rental womb," and that after the birth of the child, of which one of the two partners is a parent, the other can adopt it. We cannot in any way allow the road to the marketing of children and the exploitation of women to open up in our country. Moreover, are we sure that stepchild adoption aims at the sole interest of the protection of the child, or at the only recognition of the right of two adults to be parents? Thirdly, it follows from this bill that the protection granted to de facto couples, i.e. heterosexual cohabitants, is minimal and in no way comparable to those granted to homosexual couples. This also suggests that the measure, once approved by Parliament, risks being declared unconstitutional by the Court. Finally, it is really questionable the attitude of the Government that, in order to approve the bill as it is, tries to tighten the ranks, this time around the PD axis, Movement 5 Stars and SEL, exalting the recourse to the majorities with variable geometry, put in place according to the circumstances and the measures. It is not acceptable that such a sensitive subject from an ethical and cultural point of view should become a political instrument in the hands of the Government. I therefore hope that in this debate, in these hours, there will prevail a sense of responsibility, freedom of thought and absolute serenity of judgment, so that the rights of civil unions will be recognized without mortifying the natural family, especially with regard to the protection and defence of minors. [[Applause from Senator Minzolini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u41	Senator Bertacco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a premise to my speech. Our country has been repeatedly the subject of European appeals and judgments in the last period that have reminded us and forced us to create legislation that regulates civil unions. We remember precisely the judgment of 21 July 2015 of the European Court of Human Rights that condemned Italy for the absence of recognition and protection of unions between persons of the same sex. We were faced with the right moment to make a just law that could satisfy different sensibilities and be adapted to our culture. Unfortunately, this opportunity has been wasted, if not lost. The bill proposed here is malicious and written to attempt a deception in which I do not want to participate. Yes, it is a deception, starting with Article 1 (I read it because it is short): The provisions of this Chapter shall establish civil union between persons of the same sex as specific social training. As you will recall, this wording of Article 1 was found as an element of mediation between the opposing sensibilities of the majority and in full respect of Article 2 of the Constitution. It is a pity, however, that reading the text makes an absolute overlap between marriage and civil unions more and more clear, thus in contrast to Article 29 of the Constitution. I wonder, do you want to change that too? In fact, the complete equivalence between civil unions and the marriage institution is attempted. The European Union had called for the introduction of a law governing civil unions but, as has been clarified several times and does not appear to have been perceived by the left, no article of the Convention imposes on the Member States the duty to open marriage to homosexual couples. The European Court has not imposed any legal form or protection, but leaves the definition of rights to the discretion of the national legislator. Such an equalization is not only not required of our country by Europe, but is obviously unconstitutional. This bill is contrary to the guidelines of the Consulta in relation to what is written in our Constitution. In fact, the recent judgments of the Constitutional Court state that the family, defined as a natural society based on marriage, is itself represented by a uniform, and as such must be protected in a separate way from other social formations, such as unions between two persons of the same sex. The legislator, according to the Consulta, has therefore the task of introducing an alternative and different form from marriage in order to resolve the current lack of protection of the subjective rights of homosexuals who have chosen to organize their lives together. Let us get to the substance of the text. We are talking about the rights of citizenship, pensions, successions and support for the partner. We see, then, what is included in the bill: the same rights as married couples extended to civil unions. Also in the matter of the dissolution of the union the text Cirinna refers to the discipline of marriage. In fact, in the new text, cunningly - or rather, with enslavement to the demands and pressures of the Catholic wing of the Democratic Party - the continuous references to matrimonial law have been purified but, as we have just said, the civil union presented here is a true photocopy of marriage. Another controversial point of this text concerns the possibility of the adoption of the natural child or adopted by the partner by the other member of the homosexual couple. We're talking about the so-called stepchild adoption. What we are witnessing is an attempt to impose a new vision of parenthood, in which a father and a mother become a parent and parent, and in which the child's right to grow up in a family composed of a man and a woman is subordinated to the pure desire of adults. Stepchild adoption paves the way to the uterus for rent, practice prohibited in Italy, but possible abroad. Therefore, we will be faced with a surrogacy that destroys humanity and the beauty of motherhood. Humanity that begins right from the womb, which is not a mere physical container but the beginning of the relationship between mother and child; relationship that nourishes the child in his formation, but that will continue in time and will accompany his growth. To bring a child into the world is not a right, but the exercise of responsibility. The sacred desire to have a child cannot be exercised at all costs but must take into account how the child will grow up. The beauty of the maternal relationship, which is formed from the mother's womb, is that it grows within itself another person and the parental task is to teach that child to live his own life autonomously. All this is distorted by the practice of the womb for rent, which considers the maternal womb to be saleable, which can be bought to make a child that will be separated from that mother who raised him within knowing that there will be no relationship between them. Our civilization has developed over the centuries on the natural nucleus composed of a man and a woman, who formed a union on the basis of which they gave birth and raise their children. Adoption is a very complex piece of legislation; it is a very sensitive and carefully thought-out issue. There is no right to adopt, there is no right for two adults to have a child; instead, there is the right for the child to have a family. One thing is civil rights, and the other is children's rights. This is not the text in which a debate on adoptions was to be included; we had to and must do so by revising the existing legislative framework, making the practice of adoption not a way of the cross for couples, but a choice of life for life. We all undoubtedly have a duty to defend diversity from injustice and discrimination, and this must be done clearly and decisively. Unfortunately, I am sure that it will not be my speech today, like those of so many colleagues - and I say this humbly - that will change your mind, but at least I hope that it will lead to a more in-depth, less ideological reflection on a matter that inevitably diminishes the value of the founding cell of our society: the family. In these days I have read a statement by President Zanda who said that that of Pope Francis is not a profession, but it is a great spiritual mission, universal, much admired and much respected throughout the world by Catholics and lay people, from intellectuals to the simplest people. I agree, President Zanda, I too recognize great gifts to this Pontiff, but we too have a mission to carry out, which has been entrusted to us by the people. Ignoring the no to this mess shouted by so many citizens (and I don't think they're all center-right) would mean betraying the mandate that each of us is here to carry out. One last appeal I make to President Mattarella, because, when he will be and if he will be, he makes the right choices so that our Constitution does not be trampled on again. I will vote against this bill not because I am against civil unions, on the contrary I am in favour of the recognition of the rights of homosexual couples, but the text Cirinna does not limit itself to recognition and goes beyond: it inserts equality to marriage, separation and adoption. I certainly do not feel that I hold the truth, but I proudly defend the uniqueness of marriage, the founding core of our society, which the Cirinna text seeks in several ways to undermine. [[Applause from Senator Pelino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u43	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of this draft law, which has been before this House for some time now and to the attention of the country for a long time, must finally be resolved, and the solution identified within the draft law under discussion for us is valid, as fully identified in the content of the draft. It starts from two principles on which I think the norm that governs the social life of our country should be built. Firstly, and above all, the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, regardless of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions." Article 3, first paragraph, is the pact on which our Republic is based, between the people and the communities that compose it. Article 3 combines in this case perfectly with Article 29 of the Constitution, which maintains a sobriety of language, also from the legal point of view, absolutely proper to the need to take into account the evolution to which societies are subjected from the passage of time, from the acquisition of greater maturity, of new sensibilities, attention to increasingly advanced human relations, increasingly advanced: The Republic recognizes the rights of the family as a natural society founded on marriage. Marriage is ordained on the moral and legal equality of spouses, with the limits laid down by law to guarantee family unity. These are the terms used by Article 29 of the Constitution. The law that we are discussing today would like to be discussed even more tomorrow, thanks to the cultural evolution that this measure will help to develop in our country, so that marriage between people of the same sex finally comes, without any kind of hypocrisy, fully recognized as a right, and because that right to have and to develop a family is the right that, according to article 3, first paragraph of the Constitution, we recognize to people, whatever sex or sexual orientation they may have. I think that on this and on the moral growth capacity of our country, our society and our communities we must invest. It is also one of the political reasons that makes me reflect on what scenario we have in front of us, where the conservatives are deployed and where the progressives are recognized, where those who have an evolved democratic culture are deployed and where instead those who hold it back and make it a tool often to preserve the existing, the old, to recall a tradition that exists to be remembered as a baggage of identity, which, in my opinion, however, helps us to grow but also to overcome what we have known until today (what we Sardinians define on conottu, the known), which is also put there to be overcome and metabolized as a heritage that constitutes memory of what we have been, but does not represent an obstacle to what we should be. The political side, which from time to time forms part of this House around the great themes of society, also raises a question that is worth thinking about. It is no coincidence that we and the Democratic Party will vote in the same way on this occasion. It is not by chance that many others will find themselves on these contents. It is not a coincidence because that is the root, but that is also destiny and anyone who thinks that destiny can do without the root, that is built in an instrumental and functional way to the management of the existing, of a particular contingency, in my opinion, wrong. This is certainly a legislative reform; some we like; others we don't like. But it is a legislature in which the connotation of this country is changed. There have been times when tensions have intensified, for example, on how to interpret the instruments through which to implement our Constitution. I'm thinking about when we discussed whether or not we needed an elective Senate. It has been one of the subjects of these months and will be so in the next few months and during the referendum. Then there are the principles of the Constitution on which our Charter is based, the civil coexistence pact of this country. An example is Article 3 on the rights of persons, which constitutes the unchangeable part of the Constitution, the part without which the Constitution does not exist and would not exist even this country, this national community. That's where we happen to be. With all the democrats and all the progressives we find ourselves on that side. Sometimes it's about how we implement the rights part that we differentiate. I want to underline this aspect, which is important for the coming months, for what will happen, for the problems we face, to make this country grow in serenity, giving it the strength to deal with the big issues, that are within us but also outside; issues that surround us. I think it will not be a coincidence if, on many other occasions, we find ourselves, precisely because of the difficulties we face and that we must face always bearing in mind the rights of people and our communities. Much has been discussed about how to adopt, about the rights to have a complete family, which is made up of spouses, parents and children. Sometimes it happens - and it has happened, because the ways in which a family is formed are many and life teaches us many - that also the relationships, the relationships of kinship between those who make up the families (the formal ones, those legally existing until today), have not wanted to reappear true families, where the affections and also the dedication of each to the other have been far superior to what we could find, for example, in families legally and formally perfect. In fact, what the family represents is a sense of belonging, of specific solidarity, something that makes you recognize in the eyes of the other the possibility of relying, and that makes the other recognize in you a permanent support, never object of negotiation, but always fruit of dedication. The game of adoptions in Italy is important, it is one of the issues absolutely relevant for the purposes of the constitution of the family, the recognition of the right to the family of people, especially children who do not have a family and who have not chosen not to have it. I think that we should deal with this issue in depth in this House, in Parliament, in the country, because we must stop thinking about children with the heads of adults. It is necessary to reason on the right of children to have affections, to have a home, to have a family, to have a consideration that they often do not have. They are packages, often distributed to organizations and organizations that sometimes, in the worst cases (because there are people who are heroic even on that front), make it an instrument through which to live or, even worse, exercise a power. I believe that this Parliament must address the issue of adoptions with the idea of giving to children, deprived of this right, a chance to see him satisfied. We have to reason with the children's heads. We must reason with their right to have affections, to be able to stay in a house, to enjoy a family. And families are the ones that our Constitution gives us, in an absolutely neutral way and in the availability of the evolutionary capacity of our thinking and our culture. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Ginetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u45	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to send from this Senate a message of hope, closeness and solidarity to Carla Caiazzo of Naples, who struggles between life and death for being burned alive by her partner. Yes, Madam President, Carla and Paolo were a heterosexual couple who, to put it in the unrepeatable phrase given to the Family Day, had procreated. They gave birth to Giulia Pia, who was born prematurely, because her mother was burned by her father. Mr Sacconi, is this the traditional family for which you went to the streets? Mr Giovanardi, is this the traditional family for which you went to the streets? Senator Quagliariello, is this the traditional family you went to the square for? Honestly, I'm ashamed for you. I've never seen you in the streets for all the feminicides of these years, by the very traditional husbands and heterosexual companions. So I repeat my closeness to Carla, her family and her little girl. I come quickly to the Cirinna text and its article 5, which for me remains the minimum union. I would like to say at once that, if there are steps backwards on co-parent adoption, I will not vote for the measure. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). I've intervened dozens of times against feminicide. Shame on that lady there! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, let us speak, because you will have the opportunity to speak at the proper time. Let the colleague continue. Go on, Senator Ricchiuti. RICHIUTI (PD). You see, Madam President, the legitimacy of a Parliament and of politics depends on the ability sometimes to distinguish itself from the general mood of the people, assuming that someone has a monopoly on the sensors of the deep belly of the electorate. Family Day on Saturday, January 30th, so don't distract me from my analysis. Parliament's debate must be timely and must focus on the legal elements that are certain of the question raised in Article 5. Stepchild adoption already exists; it is established and regulated by Article 44 (1) (b) of the Adoption Act. I repeat: stepchild adoption already exists. The Constitutional Court, since 1990, has recognized the full and total legitimacy of this institution and has found two fundamental reasons for it: the aim of consolidating family unity and the interests of the child. I laugh, for those who pretend not to understand: co-parental adoption in Italy has already existed for 32 years and allows both the wife to adopt her husband's children and this to adopt her children. Why is it that only today some sectors of our public opinion think and say that stepchild encourages the uterus to rent? The uterus for rent or surrogacy is a totally different problem and alien to our discussion. That's why people who have been hastily labeling newspapers as feminists are making mistakes and making mistakes. I am a woman and a mother and I have experienced the difficulties of being both. But listen to me well: let a female sensibility, albeit in some legitimate sense, take this paradoxical and late twist and allow those who stand up to women's paladines to be exploited by the most backward, machist and hypocritical sectors of our policy is an unforgivable strategic error. Simonetta Agnello Hornby is right, in her interview about yesterday's Manifesto. The uterus for rent is a completely different issue from adoption. Adoptions in heterosexual couples can fail and unfortunately fail. To mask this reality with the improper confusion of conceptual and legal areas is the trap in which too many opinionists have fallen. I tell them and everyone to go on YouTube and listen to the speeches of two senators that I thank, Doris Lo Moro and Monica Cirinna, and the beautiful one of Sergio Lo Giudice, with whom I am honored to share this path. And then - I would not have thought to say this in this House, but in life it is true: never say never - I agree with the words of Senator Bondi, who has well illustrated the stakes of these days. Coparental adoption and surrogate motherhood have nothing to do with each other, because otherwise we should invoke the amendment of the 1983 Act on Adoptions and no one dares to do so (and we would miss it!). Fleeing from discrimination and making children's interests: these are the two legal pillars that lead me to vote in favour of Article 5 and the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u47	She is registered to speak Senator Di Giorgi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as I am concerned, what we are about to vote on is a bill that is not entirely convincing in many respects, but I will vote on it because time is now up. It is a very late Italy compared to many countries of Europe and the world. In other legislation, prior to ours, it has been tried to fill the serious gap in rights for same-sex couples, but the lack of determination of the parties of the then parliamentary majority and the opposition of large organized groups of citizens, as well as of some parties, have prevented this passage of civilization. Another not insignificant element differentiates this historical moment from the recent past and there has been a lot of talk about it in recent days. I am referring to the role of the Catholic Church. Let us be clear: a Church today as never before attentive to change and willing to welcome and understand; a Church that is confronted with unconventional human experiences and that, through public intervention of its own important figures, appears open to new legislative approaches that move in the direction of giving rights to those who still do not have them before the State. On this too, therefore, I would like to clear the ground with respect to so many discussions and to what I would call 'chat', which in recent days have been heard. A number of favourable conditions, therefore, a social feeling that has evolved over time, a delay that has rightly been considered to be embarrassing, and some judgments by high courts today lead to a positive acceleration, which can lead us to a very shared legislative text among the political parties represented in this Parliament. Despite the assessments that have been made so far and therefore my positive attitude to the measure under consideration and the need to proceed to the vote, this law has also had a bad time in this parliamentary term; a process that unfortunately forces us to come to the Chamber without a rapporteur; a process that has seen fierce clashes in the Commission justice, so much so as to arrive at a politically non-linear situation - let's face it, colleagues - with a text voted by the Democratic Party and by two opposition parties such as the 5 Star Movement and the Left Ecology and Freedom. My view is that it would have been possible to find a more advanced balance during the debate in the Commission if the clash had not been too polarized. We have witnessed an obstruction without exclusion of blows, of course, but we have also seen excessive closures on the part of others in such a sensitive and sensitive matter that perhaps it would have required other attitudes. I continue to be sure that greater listening and less rigidity would perhaps allow us to tackle this parliamentary path in a more orderly way. Already in the Commission, there were reasonable actions by some of my fellow senators, which required important changes, and I would even say obvious, for example in the area of equal treatment for marriage, precisely those changes which, thanks to much more authoritative demands today, we will now accept at an amending stage here in this House. So much. It's okay. I would add that the part of the text that deals with the adoption of the partner's son, dealt with in the now famous Articles 3 and 5, could and could still be dealt with more carefully in a separate measure in which it is all about adoptions, the most delicate and controversial, as we have seen and as it was not difficult to imagine. But the history, not even the parliamentary one, is not done with the ifs, Madam President, and so today with responsibility and reasonableness, and certainly with some more difficulties, we will certainly be able to unravel our skein and find the solutions that allow us to give the country a balanced law that takes into account the sensibilities of all and hopefully can see, first of all, the favorable vote of the majority of government, but also that of the majority of parliamentary colleagues, albeit of the opposition, that I am sure share the urgency of an intervention that can ensure that our country is finally counted among those able to give right opportunities and rights to its citizens. In order to achieve this result in the field there are very interesting solutions. Our work in the next few days will be very useful. These solutions are clearly expressed in the amendments to the text which we have tabled and which we will present in due course in the next few days. I would like to point out here, Madam President, that the amendment phase is of particular interest in this law, perhaps in a different way from the other measures we are generally dealing with in this House. Much emphasis, I would say too much emphasis, has been placed on this aspect and I want to summarize it this way: if the text is not changed, in particular Articles 3 and 5 relating to the so-called stepchild adoption, some political forces ensure their vote in favour of the bill; if instead we intervene and precisely on those articles, other parties declare themselves available to vote. A buzzard, one might say: rigidities that are opposed to rigidity. We're at the last mile, colleagues. We're at the last mile. I would expect more availability from everyone, really from everyone. Let us endeavour to strike a balance on the sensitive issue of adoption and then vote on the measure, with the greatest possible serenity and a majority. We all want, and it is sacrosanct, to protect children already born within a couple of people of the same sex. I do not believe, and with me other colleagues, that the only way to do this is through adoption. I can make mistakes, of course, they are opinions. I am convinced that a coherent and safe way can be that of reinforced foster care. I say this again here: all parental functions are given to the partner; in the event of the death of the natural parent, the child can be adopted and at the age of eighteen he can ask himself to be adopted. A linear way not to create confusion between roles in the child, which must be put in a position to distinguish parental and generative functions. No contestation and no disowning of the partner's role, I'd take a good look at it. No one's running around. Only the clarity and respect of the rights of the child who, in fact, is entitled to the love of the two people who care for him, but also to know precisely that there is someone who has generated him and that for the most disparate reasons (which the biological parent will be able to explain) is in the condition of not being able to take care of him. Children's rights, not adult wishes. Colleagues, we can't mess with this. This is the knot. Supporting this, saying these things in recent months, because we have done it in the newspapers or in the course of our debate, has meant being obscurantists, conservative Catholics unable to read modernity and above all guilty of not supporting children enough, indeed, worse, disinteresting. Nothing more offensive and farther away from so many of our personal stories, from our beliefs and - I believe - from common reasonableness. Building fences in which people who think differently can be locked up, without deepening their reasons and inviting superficial and unthought-out assessments, is a technique - in my opinion - that has never been successful and cannot be done in a democratic Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group]] What can be called modernity in relation to relationships? Who decides, and to what extent, in the name of what general principle, what does it really mean to put children's rights first? We would open a discussion too wide and we do not have time. But I also ask, on the other hand, when is the time for the legislator? I would like to say that this is what we should do here, but sometimes there is urgency. I believe, however, that this law is an urgent matter. I am in fact among those who believe that the law must be done and, therefore, it is also good to go into less, but perhaps we have done so in a somewhat guilty way at this stage. It's never okay to leave something insufficiently meditated and risk being hasty. However, it is also the fault of a certain hastyness, to some extent due, as I say to my colleagues who have worked on this text, including those of the Justice Commission. It seems to me that this is also the case of Chapter II of the bill, which we have never mentioned, which concerns civil union between people of different sex. Let's introduce some sort of "B" marriage. We have to tell each other that, too. We did not talk about it so much because the debate has gone in a different direction. In fact, we introduce a formula for which there is less commitment than marriage, less responsibility and different guaranteed rights. Which obviously had to be done. This is certainly required by those who have chosen to live their relationship as a couple according to these parameters. But our role is to make someone happy, who maybe pushes a lot? Or is it that we take a path that is certainly more complex, but perhaps more suitable to respond to this context than I have been able to say that we are living in a well-known overall irresponsibility? Was this really the best we could process? I'm not sure, but there's no time. Perhaps we should ask ourselves something more, such as why our young people today are fleeing from marriage and whether it is right to offer them simple, less demanding and tailor-made solutions that certainly do not help them in seeking greater responsibility for those they choose for their relationship. And once again, as often happens to me in my speeches, I can only refer to the need for educational paths. I know that the world is like this: it is said and someone is also convinced. But I am still convinced that we can stand up to some of the threads. And we must do everything to ensure that the educational paths form responsible men and women, attentive to the profound values of coexistence and mutual respect, in a condition of stability, certainly represented by marriage - I am not afraid to say this in this House - which becomes the best guarantee for the children who will be born. More lasting relationships, continuous relationships and greater commitment. We don't do that in Chapter II of this bill. One last point, however, I cannot help but address here, Madam President, for clarity and honesty. And this is also how I respond to interventions done right before me. The subject of surrogate motherhood seems to be the rocky guest in this debate. We've all talked about it, and it's not a stone party. It's a strong debate. It is a matter of children's rights, but also of women's rights. But are we gonna tell each other? I'm one who's done all the battles for women, and so I'm entitled here to talk about women's rights and connect it to the topic of the womb for rent. I am not told that there is no such thing in the text and that we are therefore out of the question. We're not out of the question. Let us not offend our intelligences, at least we must have this respect among ourselves. Of course, by addressing this issue, we are also dealing with a surrogacy problem. And we don't have to be afraid to tell us, otherwise we're wronging ourselves. We are dealing without hypocrisy with this, which is - as we all know - a very central issue in this debate, otherwise we do not know why there has been a debate on this. It's not like everyone who confronted her is a brainless person. Let's be serious. We all agree on the brutality of this practice. We've all been tearing our clothes apart for many years, showing our chests to say that we would never, ever want that. Then it happens that an amendment is tabled by a group of senators and senators asking that, if it is established that for the child (both a straight couple and a homosexual couple) this practice has been carried out, the provisions of Law No 40 apply. Immediately reactions beyond the lines. Immediately furious attacks and the request to withdraw the amendment, even from political parties that have always been committed to supporting women's rights. Madam President, I do not understand. Or maybe I get it too well. The amendment remains in the field and I expect consistency of behavior in the vote. I'll finish, really. We now have a task, ladies and gentlemen: to give Italy a necessary law, which does not operate forces, too far from the common feeling of the Italian people, but which can fill the serious gap that we still have on the rights of same-sex couples. Our work will still lead - of this I am sure - to a satisfactory and balanced result, which also gives credit to the great work that has been done by many here. We have come closer to shared solutions. Now we really have a duty to decide. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u49	Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u50	Madam President, the draft law we are debating is intended to regulate legally the relationship between homosexuals and the relationship between them and their children. It does not deal with how children are born. The discipline of how children are born (which is very important and within which the problem of pregnancy must be correctly framed for others) is entrusted to other norms, in particular Law No 40 of 2004, and cannot find place in this bill because, if we are not hypocrites, even in its most controversial aspects, as is precisely pregnancy for others, it concerns both homosexual and heterosexual couples. On the contrary, the pregnancy of others affects much more these second women, who resort to it in 95% of cases, while it does not concern homosexual couples formed by women at all, of which the debate - a bit masculine - which took place in this House tends to systematically forget. The bill in question speaks of union between homosexuals and the first issue I want to question is why and how this union should differ from that which concerns heterosexuals and which we call marriage. Homosexuality is neither a more or less criminal choice nor a pathology. As the World Health Organization explained to us in 1990, with some delay, but still twenty-six years ago, homosexuality is a natural variant of human behavior. So there are people (homosexuals) who by nature are also sexually attracted to people of the same sex. Since sexual orientation, homo or heterosexual, is a fact that depends on nature and therefore is not a choice, it should not even be considered a fault or error, even if objective. Yet, in the world there are more than 80 countries in which homosexuals are forced to hide their nature, because homosexual behaviors are considered illegal, are punished with prison, corporal punishments like lashes, when not with death, as still happens in seven countries. In other countries, homosexuality is not illegal, but there are still legal discrimination against people due to their sexual orientation: the lack of legal recognition of same-sex couples in our country is an example of this discrimination. However, even a law that provided for differentiated access to fundamental aspects of existence, such as the right to love and its protection, and required duties of mutual solidarity different from those that are asked of heterosexual couples, would not eliminate this discrimination. In my opinion, wanting this discrimination is not a moral option, unless it is considered that homosexuality is an anti-moral behaviour, as - we know well - someone in recent history has felt, but it is the denial of a human right. For the reasons I have recalled, I am in favour of equalitarian marriage and I accept with suffering the mediation that the bill in question represents; mediation that involves for homosexual couples the reference, not to marriage, but to specific social formations, an extenuating clarification and rewriting that, without prejudice to rights and duties, expunges references to the civil code to give further certainty that civil unions and marriages are different institutions. The vexatory exclusion of civil unions gives substantial equality on important issues, such as surname and separation. I accept this mediation because I understand that in the context given it is necessary for us to proceed to heal the wound, by now indifferent, of the lack of legal recognition of homosexual couples who have been waiting for an answer from this Parliament for too many years. What is brought about in support of these differentiations? The rhetoric of the family conceived not as the seat of relationships of mutual love and support, but as a unique model excluding: the traditional family composed of a straight couple, married, with children. Yet, as ISTAT's 2014 annual report tells us, this traditional family accounts for less than a third of the total number of households and just over half of households, i.e. families with a relationship of couple or parent-son type. Among heterosexual couples, 5 million, or 37 percent, are childrenless, and we exclude homosexuals from marriage because they cannot procreate? So let's talk about the children of homosexuals. In this field mediation is not possible, because what is denied is the very possibility of homogenitality. It is said that a child must have a mother and a father, even in this case ignoring that, according to data ISTAT 2015, 23 percent of Italian families with children there is only one parent; and since, by definition, in a homosexual couple it is not possible there are a mother and a father, it follows that homosexuals should not be allowed to have children. For this reason, and only for this reason, we do not want to give homosexuals the opportunity to adopt third-party children, which would also be the solution to counter what is called the womb for rent. It is not believed that two homosexuals are able to be two good parents and therefore they do not want in any case in the world to be made possible to them, even in the most banal, i.e. when the child exists and is the biological child of one of the two: the only case contemplated by this bill. It is a bill that - it should be emphasized - with reference to the recognition of children, does not introduce any special discipline for homosexual couples; that is, no discipline that already does not apply also to heterosexual couples, and especially, within these, to those who are not able to generate, just as homosexual couples are not. It is believed that homosexuals should not have children, but because, especially for women, they cannot be prevented - unless they are sterilized - from having children of homosexuals there are and will be there. And then I really appeal to conscience, as well as to the rights of children, on which so many other interventions that preceded me have rightly paused, and I ask my own and your conscience: is it better for these children to have only one parent or two? Is it better to have a temporary parent, rented, or a parent taking full responsibility for them? My conscience leaves me no doubt. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Taverna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u51	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u52	Madam President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I make a premise. My approach to this issue is extremely prudent, even if determined, but marked by an attitude of great respect - I kept it out of this House and also, more importantly, in this House - for those who think differently from me. I am afraid that it has expired in the quality of the debate outside this House, also using tones and setting the topics of the debate in an area that has certainly not facilitated an in-depth examination appropriate to the delicacy of the subject. I have great respect for those who think differently from me, as I have great respect for Mrs Cirinna and for the battle that has been going on for a long time in support of her ideas. I am talking about ideas that, as such, are respectable and risk weakening when we support them through an ideological system that - to use the words of Ignazio Silone - reminds us how rarely ideologies deserve the importance that we want to attribute to them. In fact, very often - Silone says - ideologies are masks, alibis or ornaments. Instead, perhaps the spirituality of a serious movement of people does not end up in an ideology. With this premise, I think it must also be said, Mr Cirinna, colleagues and colleagues, that anyone who thinks otherwise is neither a obscurantist nor one who has learned nothing since the Middle Ages. I think we must clear the field from all sorts of misunderstandings, because then the misunderstandings result in the exploitations, that is, the misunderstandings artificially create the exploitations. I do not make any reference to the recognition of the civil rights of each individual in the context of a de facto couple or a heterosexual couple, in the sacrosanct respect that is due to every human being and within a civil society that really wants to be such. But precisely because I am aware of the importance of the recognition of the civil rights of all, I certainly cannot turn my head on the other side and ignore those of children to grow up in a family with a father and a mother, to have every protection that preserves them from becoming pure object of the desire of adults. Nor can I ignore, because it is part of my sensitivity, the value of the natural family, formed by a man and a woman, as the founding nucleus of our society through the institution of marriage, just as the constituent Fathers wanted to sanctify. The reality is another, to me it seems, because the will to equate civil unions to marriage, with the consequent opening of a sort of highway to adoptions by homosexual couples, represents the point of criticality and fall of this bill. The unions between persons of the same sex deserve the utmost respect and have the right to a legal regulation (which in truth is already largely provided by the civil code), but this cannot be declined in a sort of approval to marriage, which opens to a questionable right to parenthood, perhaps obtained with practices that I consider humiliating above all for the dignity of the woman, as well as a real attack on the protection of motherhood. Not to mention that the issue of adoptions can only be dealt with in the specific field that falls to it, which is certainly not that of the draft law on civil unions. Maybe we would take care of adoptions; maybe we would go and extend our gaze to understand why, how and where adoption practices are delivered to an expensive and crooked bureaucracy, which pushes away the achievement of that goal by a couple who want to adopt children. So the bill, which, while calling itself civil unions, actually identifies a regime identical to that of marriage, taking up the formulas that the civil code uses to regulate the union between spouses, thus overlapping with Article 29 of the Constitution, represents - in my humble opinion - the critical point. I believe that Mrs Cirinna herself, in redrafting the text of the draft law with respect to the first draft, has gone precisely in the direction of freeing it from the risk of slipping towards an interpretation, as has also been done by distinguished lawyers, which goes in the same way as we have just said. I believe that the desired objective which we set ourselves, also through the joint commitment of all the Leaders, to sciss all those amendments which they had and which have the value of differing or hindering the analysis of the measure, comes to a further excerpt of all references to the code of conduct of marriage. I believe that, if we can do this work, we may also be able to resume the balance after the very bad slip that has been made in relation to the failure to respect what the constitutional rules provide for the parliamentary process of the bill, which has skipped the work in the Commission to arrive in this Chamber. I believe that we do not want to understand that through ideological radicalization we can only determine conditions and a climate of confrontation that undermines the realization of interventions that are also desirable for the respect that deserve people, their expectations and their needs. Of course the dialogue between different visions, which we have achieved through the debate in this House, I think has also helped each of us to understand more and better aspects perhaps unexplored and hidden behind a few paragraphs and represents for the time remaining the road that separates us from a result, which we do not want to hinder, but which we want to achieve in a logic that recognizes the rights of civil unions in a regulation referred exclusively to Article 2 of our Constitution. The rift could have serious consequences. I am referring to the failure to respect Article 72 of the Constitution, also with reference to what awaits the bill after its possible approval, namely the signature of the President of the Republic and the possible observation that the judge of the laws could make about the points that are the subject of our observations and my disputes. I do not think anyone can escape that the equalization of a de facto coexistence with marriage results in discrimination against the encounter, that is, limiting the freedom of self-determination of persons who do not want to be subject to the constraints resulting from the contraction of marriage. The simple cohabitation, in fact, would seem to be the assumption on which the bill founds an important part of its installation, because from the same descend of the obligations of a patrimonial nature. I think these things are confusing. Among the lines of marriage in fact then, even with some ease, the norm on adoptions of fact (stepchild adoption), simply unacceptable to me, not only for the legislative context in which it is inserted, but because, as it is built, does not take into account in any account the right of the child to have a family and perhaps takes into account the right - which I personally consider arbitrary - of the adult to be parent. Ultimately, it indirectly allows a partner to use a surrogate motherhood to make a child and then trigger the other partner's right to adopt it. Those who object that the practice of the uterus for rent in Italy is forbidden and that many heterosexual couples use it, where it is allowed, tell the truth. But it is beyond doubt that paving the way for this type of adoption is a way to encourage behavior of this kind, in fact facilitating homosexual couples for whom the norm is actually built. I really hope that the debate that comes to an end will take another turn from here to when the votes will begin, that we really begin to talk about the civil rights of people who want to be together stablely, even those of the same sex, who are distinct because different and not because less important or inferior dignity from the rights of the natural family, composed of a man and a woman and founded on marriage; family that must be protected in its indisputable social function, traceable even through the red thread of anthropological research. I hope that we will really begin to talk about the rights of the child and that we will give the necessary legislative response to the defence of diversity. Defending diversity means recognizing them, and recognizing them means knowing how to give each one an adequate response, which means not taking the wrong path of the homologation tout court, which would like to assimilate the exception to the norm; forcefully in an indistinguished mass the formation of the so-called contemporary society, a surreal society and emptied of itself. As Lévi-Strauss writes, reported in an article by Antonio Gurrado that I read a few days ago on "II Foglio", "under the aegis of a legal and formalist rationalism we build an image of the world and society in which all the difficulties are subjected to an artificial logic and we do not realize that the universe is not formed by the objects we speak of." Well, I think that's right: maybe this is the real risk we're taking. Desires do not always coincide with rights; and rights built on desires regardless are highly unlikely to coincide with the cultural and human progress of a society: if anything, they more often mark its undoing. We are called, therefore, to a great responsibility. I hope that common sense will win, which goes through a thorough revision of this bill (through the demanding work that the Leaders have assumed the burden of), in the part that equates civil unions to marriage and, as far as I am concerned, with the absolute abolition of Article 5 on adoptions and with the introduction, instead, of concrete instruments of support to families. In this sense, my and my Group's proactive action has also been carried out with regard to the need to look at a new horizon, which has long been waiting for a response: that of support for the family and parenthood, through the identification of appropriate resources and tax benefits, which go in the direction of strengthening what is a fundamental institution of our society and which, in a period of great crisis, is also one of the fundamental prerequisites for tackling, in a completed way, welfare policies. But, more generally, this is an opportunity that we cannot miss to give an answer to the rights of those people who feel discriminated against and who today have the possibility of recognizing through a clear legislative prose, through a parliamentary commitment that escapes the perverse logic of the misunderstanding and that restores clarity to the text that, starting from Tuesday, we will face when the general debate and subsequent votes are closed. I believe that this is what the country needs and in this respect I confirm my commitment. [[Applause from Senators Bertacco and Caliendo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u53	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u54	Madam President, in this difficult, very complex debate, which concerns very sensitive issues, the first question I asked myself was whether there was indeed an affinity between the feeling and the common feeling of Italian citizens and the choice of this Parliament, this Senate, to face a debate on this subject, spending so many hours, so much time. The feeling that I felt, comparing myself with the people I know, with those I frequent, was very strong: I warned that there is a situation in our country so serious, in so many ways, to make the debate on this measure felt as something very distant, certainly not among the priorities that live families and individuals of all kinds. This was a very strong approach that pushed me and moved me to question why we are so far from the real country. It is clear that there is, in this Parliament, an action which is not led by parliamentarians or parliamentary groups, but by the government. It is the Government that sets priorities and issues to be addressed; but the issues to be addressed should be others. Someone's talking about something else. I am convinced, on the other hand, that there are actually priorities. In these days we are experiencing severe crises of all kinds: banking crises, with the stock exchange at peak; savings of families and of all our citizens in danger; families in serious economic difficulties; relations with Europe that have become again difficult; the ISIS that advances in Libya and the Schengen crisis, with possible very serious repercussions for our country. What does the Renzi Government do in this dramatic situation? It sets out a roadmap that saw the reform of the Constitution as a priority (on which each of us expressed our positions), the need to go to the renewal of the Presidents, Vice Presidents and Secretaries of the Commissions and, finally, the appointment of new Ministers, Vice Ministers, Undersecretaries, etc. And now it brings us to this debate. I believe that, although this debate deserves respect, when the ship sinks, that is, when the country sinks, one should try first of all to save the ship and not to sink it. It is clear that in this Parliament there is a majority of Members, elected across the board, who are in favour of adopting this measure, at least on paper. This majority consists of the majority of the Democratic Party, SEL and the 5 Star Movement. So, it's easy to think that eventually this bill, one way or another, will be passed. However, I believe that a certain hypocrisy should be highlighted, especially in the behaviour of a party that could be decisive in this matter. I'm referring to the New Right Center. I have felt, in the speeches of my colleagues, a passion and conviction, in this battle, that they are real, that I do not context and that I feel sincere. But it is clear that, if they really wanted to achieve the objective of not having the law passed or of having it substantially changed, they would have to impose themselves within the majority and get its discussion before the constitutional reform was approved. Instead, they made a different choice, supine towards President Renzi, which will actually lead to a battle, for their part, with weapons absolutely sprung up. We also had the feeling, honestly, that their priority was rather to obtain confirmations in the nominations of the Presidents of the Commission or the appointment of new Sub-secretaries and Vice-Ministers that not the battle to which, with such strength and emphasis, they are taking part. It was an absolutely wrong choice compared to that square that they would like to represent and that we too, with our positions, want to represent; that square that met in Rome in the Family Day. So many comments have been made on this matter by my colleagues, now in so many speeches, which are in favour of one or the other. One of the topics most used by those who support the opportunity to approve this bill is the consideration that almost all countries in Europe have adopted forms of legislation on this subject, which go to recognize the family or the union of homosexual couples. On this subject I object very banally that it is not the way a free and sovereign Parliament behaves to establish that, since a rule has been adopted in many other countries, it is automatically necessary and necessary to do the same here. I start from a consideration: it is clear that, in every country in which a rule has been approved over these years, a majority of the left has been formed which recognized itself in this type of legislation and which has succeeded in bringing the legislative process to completion. Now, under current conditions and with this parliamentary composition, it seems to be Italy's turn. This does not necessarily mean that the rules that will be adopted actually represent the position of the majority of the citizens that Parliament should represent. This is an issue which I would like to take away from the debate and which should not be a priority over our choices. As I go to the heart of the reform, I would like to say what are the two great nos of the North League compared to the draft law under consideration: no to the family equalization to the union between two people of the same sex and no to the adoption of children by homosexual couples. These are the two pillars on which we have built our position against the measure and these are the two priorities set out in the Cirinna bill, beyond the fact that the debate has been taken in other directions, saying that they are actually not true or marginal parts of the bill. The truth is different and is evident to all. There is marriage in our system, and it is also recognized by the Constitution. Well, if the relationship between two persons of the same sex is not called "marriage" but "civil union" and all the same rights are attributed to it, referring to the same articles of the civil code with which marriage is regulated, these two forms of coexistence can also be called nominally in a different way, but, in fact, they are equivalent to all effects. This is one of the strong points of the bill under consideration: different names are used but we want to equate marriage and relationship with a homosexual couple. For the supporters of the bill this is an obvious thing to carry out. Those who believe that a distinction should exist and be confirmed are, on the other hand, forced by the fact that there are also judgments of the Constitutional Court, repeatedly cited, which state that this equivalence cannot take place and little changes if it takes place not in the names but in the substance of things. The other important aspect is the one related to adoptions. There are thus very different conceptions, between us in Parliament and in the country, of those that are rights and freedoms, the family and society, and it is obvious that different positions emerge. They are important and difficult issues, on which each of us has questioned and it is inevitable that there are different positions. However, we express all our perplexities with respect for everyone's positions but with firmness, without letting ourselves be intimidated by those who accuse us and other colleagues of representing retrograde or even homophobic positions. That is not our belief. We express free opinions based on our convictions. The society in which we recognize ourselves is a natural society, based on the union of men and women, which leads to the birth of children. It is right to regulate other forms of coexistence, but under no circumstances should an identity be established between these two different types of coexistence, and that is what is in fact contained in the measure we are examining. Individual rights must be granted to all and - in our opinion - those to health care, to determine to whom to assign their inheritance and their assets or to the taking over of their rental contract are all individual rights that did not require the approval of the draft law under consideration or at least a draft law conceived in this form: they could be guaranteed with rules that were going to affect the civil code without the recognition of the civil union as an institution from which to derive such rights. On this, of course, I believe that almost all of the country is in favour and thus Parliament. But this is almost a marginal issue compared to this debate and we have seen it throughout the debate. A slightly more sensitive issue concerning rights is the survivor's pension. The measure under consideration - it is fair to say and it is right to know - states that the survivor's pension can also be recognised by the State for same-sex couples who will be recognised through civil union. It is a subject on which I believe we can take different positions, and it is legitimate to have them. We need to figure out what the survivor's pension is. Your pension is the result of a provision of resources built through your own work and are obviously individual resources that must be recognised. The survivor's pension is something different: it is a recognition of the community towards a person who did not produce that income, but who is granted the pension because he is recognized to have contributed to the growth of a family, up to now only of a natural type, who had the possibility to raise children and therefore to contribute to the social life of all of us. Now this right also extends to homosexual couples. Whether it's right or wrong, it's hard to tell. I, too, have no certainty about this issue, but I think it is a choice on which at least there should be a greater debate in this House, starting from a consideration. Through the recognition of the survivor's pension it is clear to everyone that there will be a consequent increase in costs for the INPS, which will have to provide the new service to people who until now were not granted that right. In the Commissions which met on this subject, the impact of this rule in economic terms was not, to be honest, apparent. This was wanted as a secondary issue, but - in my opinion - it was indeed necessary to go into more detail. Then there is the perhaps central theme of the bill under consideration, which is stepchild adoption and what is related to it, namely the practice of the uterus for rent. On this subject also many Senators of the Democratic Party wanted to remove that veil of hypocrisy that established that such themes should be carried out in a parallel and distinct way and had no relevance to each other. The reality - it is evident to all - is different: it is forbidden the uterus for rent in Italy, but it is not in other countries. Through stepchild adoption, it is evident that this tool, this means of childbearing, to produce children by paying the woman who will become complicit in that procedure, will be encouraged. With the adoption of the bill in our examination there will be an incentive to use this procedure that we consider absolutely reprehensible, to condemn and not to feed and facilitate through the legislation of our system. We believe that there is, out of charity, a right to fatherhood and motherhood, but there is a higher right that is that of the child to have a mother and a father. On this subject, I know that there are totally different positions within Parliament, but we believe that this is an inalienable priority for the child in whom we identify and recognize ourselves. On such a delicate subject, there is a position that I have read about the Corriere della Sera and that I would like to quote. It is the position of Ernesto Galli Della Loggia: "All the affection of the world is not enough to produce the basic psychic structures that respond to the child's need to know where he comes from. The child is constituted only by distinguishing himself and this presupposes, first of all, that he knows who he resembles. He needs to know that he is the fruit of the love and union of a man, his father, and a woman, his mother, by virtue of the sexual difference of his parents. This is a position in which I recognize myself and in which it is evident, from the parliamentary debate, that many colleagues do not recognize each other, believing that a child could have grown up equally well in a coexistence of people of the same sex. We are splitting up on this, and it will be one of the key issues that will emerge during the debate and the adoption of the amendments. I hope that, at least on this subject, a majority can be created to question this part of the bill, the famous article 5. There are other considerations to be made in relation to this debate. Other senators have done so, particularly in my group, Mr Arrigoni. A first consideration concerns what kind of society we want to build and to which society we want to go. A society in which every freedom must be recognized, every difference cancelled and where each of us has the right to demand what he wants regardless of the rules that we establish through our laws? We're heading towards a dangerous slope. Eliminating any difference and establishing that we are a mass of people without individuality, without gender, sex, culture, religion, territorial belonging, is a mistake. This is a system that leads to the annulment of ourselves, of all forms of society and civil coexistence and on which they will have the power to prevail and transform us into objects, consumers and nothing more. We believe that the country's urgent needs are other than those pursued by the draft law under consideration and that the legislator should intervene mainly with measures to support the family's economic support. We would have liked the last few weeks to be devoted to this debate, which is still in the parliamentary committees. We have presented ourselves in this legislature as the Northern League, but I believe that it also applies to so many other groups, a framework law on the family. Our proposal for a law intends to address in a comprehensive way the first and most important requirement of the family: that of existence, that of survival. This, Madam President, is our priority and certainly not this debate, which we have had to take part in and in which we will participate in the amending action, hoping that the text of the bill will be radically revised, coming to be more in tune with our country, which by majority does not share - we know - the adoption of children by homosexual couples. We hope, therefore, that a reflection will take place within the various parts of this Parliament and in the various parliamentary groups, leading to a radical re-examination, more respectful of public opinion, which must always be our point of reference. [[Applause from Senator Stefani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u55	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u58	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Madam President, today is the second day of veterinary malasanity, set up seven years after the death of Lea, a dog who died of veterinary errors and whose owner has also set up an investigation committee. I remember that the dog died of painful and useless surgery and that, to convince the owner of the need for surgery, he was shown the picture of another dog's uterus. The whole thing then resulted in a judicial affair. This day, aimed at raising awareness in this sense, should also urge everyone, just as we are discussing civilization measures and extending rights for everyone here in the Senate, to remember that animals are sentient beings and that, as such, they also need to be guaranteed equal rights: this is in the field of veterinary assistance and in all the relations that we have with them every day and in all sectors, that is to say from pets, to farm animals, until we have to consider what is happening, unfortunately, still with animal experimentation. In this regard, I urge for the second time the calendarization of bill No. 1482, at my first signature, which was deposited on May 14, 2014. Medical responsibility was discussed in the Chamber. Here we are talking about rights: I believe that this is a useful measure of civilization.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u61	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I too, as Mrs Fucksia has already done, would like to remind the House that today we are celebrating the second day for the victims of the wrong health behaviour against animals. Forza Italia and President Berlusconi, in particular, have always been sensitive to this issue. More than ten million Italians have a pet at home, which they consider to be part of the family and, therefore, holder of rights. It is legitimate that, as with humans, even in their case it is possible to ask for and obtain justice when they become victims of episodes of malasanity resulting from certain errors of veterinarians. We will support any legislative initiative in this regard, even in collaboration with associations that work passionately in this field, and we will fight in the interest of those who are part of our daily life and are able to give love in a totally disinterested way, mindful of that phrase of Gandhi according to which the greatness and moral progress of a nation can be judged by the way in which animals are treated. [[Applause from Senators Bertacco, Cirinna and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u64	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Madam President, I would like to call for a timetable for the draft law, first signed by my colleague, Mr Silvana Amati, on the problems of end-of-life and euthanasia. To support my request I read briefly the letter of Dr Massimo Max Fanelli, fifty-five years old, sick of ALS, who asks, along with many others, that you can facilitate the path of a law on the end of life. I read your note on the rights of the dying. Dealing with the topic of the end of life is complex and involves the management of legal, medical, moral, social and professional aspects. With this decalogue I sum up 10 points that should be dealt with in order to legislate in a comprehensive way. The themes on the caregiver are introduced, a central figure in the management of the dying's end of life. Decalogue: 1) therapeutic aggressiveness: it is necessary to redefine when this becomes recognized from the legal point of view, in relation to the advance of medical research; 2) palliative care: the artificial ventilator is a cause of ideological conflict. It is a fundamental element for the lengthening of the survival of many terminal patients but is not considered to be cure. The patient can refuse his implant and let himself die, but once installed he cannot give it up. In degenerative diseases this is transformed into a heavy therapeutic aggression; 3) declaration of will: the declaration of the will of a terminal patient, cannot be declared through an ocularly controlled PC. It is an unrecognized technology and notaries, if they have to accept an early declaration of treatment, object to the means of communication; 4) aid provision: the equipment provided by health care for health care at home is dependent on regional laws. This creates strong differences in the health service from Region to Region; 5. psychological assistance; 6. protection; 7. assistance; 8) training; 9) administrative practices; 10) euthanasia. The start of the euthanasic process, in order to be regulated, must address three issues: medical, legal and moral. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you have to finish your speech. Mr Pezzopane (PD). Thank you, President, and I deliver the entire letter, thanking Dr Massimo Max Fanelli for having made a valuable contribution to the debate on euthanasia. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. The question you have raised will have to be addressed to the Leaders for possible calendarisation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u67	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, if there is a revolt in Naples for the rejection of the fair rc-auto rate for honest and virtuous motorists that equates the costs of the insurance of the regions at high cost to those at low cost... Valeria Valente and Leonardoimpegno must be denounced for the abuse of popular credulity, for having collected signatures for the rc-auto aware that then the PD would sink it. Once again, in betraying the bell towers, the parliamentarians of the Democratic Party have thought about it, with their deafening silence while the rc-auto-fair norm or "tariff Italy" - as they called it - is about to be destroyed. After the rejection in February 2014, by our fellow senators of the PD, of the amendment to the decree-law destination Italy, which provided for the lowest rc-auto fare in Italy for virtuous drivers, two years later an even worse mockery was served. Congressman Leonardo Impegno and her colleague and candidate for the primary as mayor of Naples, Valeria Valente, copying our initiative, have engaged hundreds of young activists and collected thousands of signatures convincing citizens that they would fight for a bill that they called "Tariffe Italia." Both Engagement and Valente were already aware that the PD could betray the promises. Then it is only to throw smoke in the eyes that in July the MPs voted in favour of our text on the fair rc-auto in the House, singing victory after its approval and claiming that it was their exclusive idea. Even the governor of the Campania Region Vincenzo De Luca, who on the site of the Campania Region sang to the four winds the victory. But now that the same text has arrived in the Senate and is a step away from its definitive approval, the PD has already reversed, in order not to betray - I must think, at this point - the confidence of the lobbyists of insurance companies. The fair rc-auto, contained in Article 7 of the Competition Decree, has already been halved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u68	Excuse me, Senator Puglia, but this matter is under discussion in the competent Commission, which has not yet spoken. You, therefore, cannot give a Senate body a decision that has not been taken from the benches of this House. I would therefore ask you to put this matter in its objective and real terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u69	Madam President, there is one fact: to date, the Campanian Members have not spoken a word to defend what they say is their amendment and their battle. So, just abuse popular credulity; make us believe and do not change the discount for honest and virtuous drivers. Honest people cannot pay for the dishonesty of others.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-572.ana.u70	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 14.04 a.m.
