ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on the implementation and effects of the jobs act and prospects for revision of pension legislation, to which the Minister for Labour and Social Policy Poletti will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us now turn to questions on the implementation and effects of the jobs act. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each. I recommend respect for the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u6	ANGIONES (PD). Minister, fifteen months after the approval of the jobs act and one year after the entry into force of the permanent contract to increasing protections, the employment data of our country have definitely improved. Of course, the number of job seekers is still too high, yet, to date, the positive results are undeniable and encourage you, the Government and Parliament to continue on the path they have taken, in particular by giving concrete implementation to the second part of the reform, no less important than the first, on active labour policies. This is why it is necessary to ensure the permanent organisation and full operation of the National Agency for Active Labour Policies (ANPAL) and that of Employment Centres, both of which are key instruments for the success of the reform. In particular, employment centres are also at a transitional stage in overcoming the Provinces, on which they depended, and in view of the limited financial resources available to them. On the other hand, the Agency will not be able to develop its objectives without a revival of its territorial terminals. For these reasons, I ask you, Minister, what actions the Government intends to take to monitor and, if necessary, implement the implementing decrees of the jobs act in order to consolidate the recovery of the labour market and what measures are being taken to revive the work of the employment centres.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u9	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the data provided to us by INPS and the other institutions in this House tell us of 563,000 new job positions in 2015, a number that can only please us. However, there is a suspicion that these numbers are due to an emptying of other categories of work, especially if this goes in parallel with two other data. I think, first of all, of the extraordinary increase in vouchers. In November of last year there had been a 67 percent increase and in January of this year 9 million vouchers were sold. I would like to know how the Minister views this aspect. Secondly, by dividing the amount of incentive expenditure - which, according to government sources, is over 9 billion - by 563,000 new places, we have a government spending of 16,000 euros for each worker. It would probably cost less to hire people from the state, even if they had less impact on the economy, rather than using this form of incentive. In my opinion, obviously, something went wrong. To spend 16,000 euros on each job I would say that it is not an incentive, but a purchase of jobs. Actually, it's more the money spent than the money spent in the workers' pockets.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u12	CATALFO (M5S). Minister, more than a year after the implementation of the labour reform and two years after the introduction of the Youth Guarantee programme, the figures that emerge - as the studies and monitoring of the ISFOL say - are certainly not good: compared with an investment of 1.5 billion euros precisely for the Youth Guarantee programme, only 32,000 were the young people hired (3.7 of the members) and only 136,000 went into internship, but it was often used by employers to disguise real paid work. In addition to the damage the mockery has been added as often trainees in many regions have not been paid. To this we add the fact that, among the 221,000 more jobs that President Renzi has called out here in the Chamber, we must also count 136,000 young trainees who, in fact, are considered to be employed in Italy despite not being. With regard to the important investment made for the contributory exemption linked to the contract to increasing protections, the data show us that it is a very important and exotic financing that, however, has not produced the desired results in terms of employment. The 5 Star Movement had already highlighted to the Government, in the discussion of the jobs act, the need to connect the exemption only to the new assumptions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator. CATALFO (M5S). Yes, ma'am. The Court of Auditors also talks about the possible employment bubble in its report. By linking all this to the lack of reform of active policies, the fact that the ANPAL, in fact, has not yet been established, the presence of a further coach - I am referring to Italy's work, which continues to be as it is - and the employment centres, which have not been given the real input to move forward and proceed in the correct way to link them to the employment integration of the unemployed, to the private foundation of the third social sector of Italy. [[Points raised by the President]] , which should deal with disadvantaged people when they should be occupied solely, as essential services, with employment centres, we wonder at this point what initiatives the government intends to take... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u13	Senator Catalfo, you're way out of time. I'll give you five seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u14	CATALFO (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to ask the Minister what he intends to do about vouchers, active labour policies and frauds carried out through the transformation of fixed-term contracts into permanent contracts.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u17	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Minister, I would like to remind you of the data on the use of vouchers. In 2015, 1,392,906 workers were paid in this way; in 2008, when the use of vouchers was limited to workers in agriculture, there were 24,437. Now 40 percent of these people work exclusively with this formula and access to a social security benefit of 13 percent. These people, at the end of their period of work, will not be retired. In fact, the share of 2.5 euros of the nominal 10 euros of the voucher, divided between pension and insurance, is insufficient to guarantee the minimum coverage and rights are not even seen in the shadow, while the lack of income for the INPS, the INAIL and the state coffers are more than obvious. So, other than permanent contracts to increasing protections! On the one hand, recruitments collapse indefinitely, due to the cut in incentives, on the other, the number of vouchers increases dramatically. They are the punctual representation of work not as a relationship between employer and worker, but as an occasional relationship, like "bite and run" or, better still, like "work and get out of the way." Now, however, with the hunger for work that exists, for the budgetary policies that you have adopted - which stem from relations with Europe, but which you have accepted - people also accept this. In this way, however, we come to create a sort of fifth state, as someone has defined it, composed of people not only precarious, but more than precarious, who see absolutely commercialized their work. I therefore ask the Minister whether, in the face of what is happening and the report that you yourself have drawn up, he agrees that the legislation on vouchers should be completely rewritten, bringing this instrument back to absolutely residual categories, which cannot be expanded to such large portions of the world of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u20	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, Minister, the powerful reform of labour law under the name of jobs act was launched by the Government through various legislative measures, which stand out temporarily between 2014 and 2015. Starting from the law of delegation, which concerns the contract and increasing protection, I ask the Minister what data are at his disposal regarding the effectiveness of the jobs act in contrast to the precarious. I would also like to ask whether we know the differentiated data for territorial areas, between North, Central and South. Then I ask the Minister, going in more detail, if he does not intend to integrate of ulterior 66 million euros the project Beautiful Schools, that he has signed two years ago, whose program has been concluded in these days by the Government, for 64 million euros. All this has the aim of maintaining the employment standards for 11,000 employees, since 70% of schools still need maintenance, thus allowing not to take advantage of the integration fund for 45 million euros. So you save that amount, you work 11,000 people and you affect the quality and safety of the schools (and the safety of our children).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u23	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, a very recent analysis by the BusinessLabour Studies Centre, carried out on the basis of INPS data, has shown that 61 percent of the total of permanent employment contracts activated in 2015 is assisted by the contributory exemption. This means that the increase in employment over the last year was a consequence of temporary and transitional measures and that there is a risk of mass unemployment at the end of these incentives, in 2018, also considering that the growing protection contract exceeded the guarantees of Article 18 of Law No 300 of 1970, the so-called Workers' Statute. Eurostat data on labour costs remind us that Italian companies have an average labour cost of EUR 28.30, i.e. EUR 4.30 higher than the European average. So we believe that, in order to create new employment, we must act on the incoming flexibility, even before the outgoing flexibility, through structural measures to reduce labour costs. We therefore ask the Minister whether he intends to take action to standardise and standardise the cost of Italian labour to the European average, in order not only to increase employability, but also to ensure greater competitiveness in the Italian business system.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u26	ZIZA (CoR). Minister, according to ISTAT, the effects of the so-called jobs act ended at the beginning of the year, as the number of recruitments in January 2016 would have decreased by 23% on an annual basis. Even, the balance between activation and termination of employment relationships fell from 166,000 units in the same month of the previous year to 112,000 units, falling literally compared to December 2015. So the questions that we would like to ask you are: what are the remedies and the reasons that, in your opinion, are leading to these results of this reform? And what applications could be made to better implement the reform of Legislative Decree No. 150 of 2015?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u27	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Poletti, has the floor. The Minister will respond as he sits having suffered a minor injury, for which we wish him every success.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u28	I apologise to you, Madam President, and to the Senators, but unfortunately my situation prevents me from standing for more than a few minutes. Coming quickly to the questions asked, I think I can try to give an organic answer to all the arguments, because the arguments you have proposed concern, essentially, all the parties that refer to the reform of the labour market and to some specific situations, such as that of vouchers, as contractual type on which it is necessary to reflect. We can start from a first consideration referring to the objective that was, and is, the basis of the reform of the labour market and, in any case, overall of that intervention. Our objective was, first of all, to reduce the uncertainty and deliver a figure of stability and clarity of the rules of work in our country, aimed at two objectives: to ensure that companies can invest looking to the future; to create and grow Italian and international investors by relying on the condition of the rules of work in our country. That is what we have tried to do. Along with this there was a second objective: an equally important change on the side of social shock absorbers and active policies, moving from an idea of protection in the workplace to an idea of dynamic labour market within which the conditions are produced for which, when it happens or when you choose to switch from one job to another, there is a regulation that allows you to develop this action to the best possible extent. From this point of view, here is a first answer. In the meantime, we must look at all the interventions we have made: the first decree on fixed-term contracts; a second general intervention; an intervention, which has been placed in the law of stability, on decontribution. All of this must be read together. The first objective we have tried to grasp is the need to change a condition of fact that had stabilized in this country over time. In 2014, out of 100 start-ups at work, 85 were in precarious form (temporary and other forms). It was quite clear that in our country the permanent recruitment was considered an unusable practice, a way no longer practicable; because, clearly, if out of 100 85 start-ups are in different forms, it cannot be said that the classic form of start-up is the permanent contract. To change this situation it was not possible to intervene too soft, too limited. We had and need a radical change, that is to say a change of culture and approach. Thus, the combined intervention of regulatory change with decontribution also had to produce the result it produced: one and a half million new contracts made in that way. And we must always remember that not all permanent contracts have benefited from decontribution. We have over two million permanent contracts. This has changed the figure: from 15% of permanent contracts to more than 22%. If we measure them, it is a third of more contracts, so it means that the labour market has changed radically. Objection, observation and question: but at the end of the three-year period what will happen? The decontribution, which was so strong, will then give us equal unemployment? The answer is quite simple. Since we have said, in very clear terms, that for us the permanent contract will have to cost, forever and structurally, less than a precarious or temporary opposite (let's call it what we want), it is clear that a company that had held a worker for three years (and therefore should have appreciated the qualities, increased the skills and I would consider it quite strange that you wanted to free this resource if needed) and wanted to interrupt that contract and start a temporary contract would be faced with a contract that costs more. I don't think any entrepreneurs make such a choice. On the other hand, this data is already in things today. In fact, with the intervention that we have done to eliminate the tax base for the calculation of the IRAP of stable work, in addition to more than one percentage point that already costs a fixed-term contract today, if we did nothing else, in the end we would still have an indefinite labour cost of 5% lower than the fixed-term one. But we don't settle and we think we're going to widen this scissor. I therefore do not believe that there is the problem that is being feared, precisely because of this condition. Among the other outcomes that I believe should be highlighted, there is, for example, the fact that collaborations have been significantly reduced; similarly VAT consignments, because from this point of view we have built an element of clarity, where each side is properly represented. Within this data there are two other considerations on which I have received questions: one is the theme of vouchers, for which there has been an explosion, a very important increase. We should first check that this increase is dated 2012, when, with the reform of the time, the audience of workers, businesses and sectors that can use vouchers has expanded. Let's consider, instead, the data relative to the last period, after the jobs act, that moreover, on this side, it has done two things: it has prohibited the use of vouchers in the contracts, therefore it has reduced the usability, and, second, it has raised from 5,000 to 7,000 euros the eligible remuneration for the individual worker (but it has not changed anything compared to the 2,000 euros limit previewed for the enterprises). We have done a punctual monitoring, which has been published, because we think that vouchers have produced an emergence compared to situations of black work present in our country; I do not think it is correct not to consider this element, because in this country today we estimate 1,9 million workers in black, while ten years ago the OECD put us in the penultimate position in terms of the number of workers in black. We cannot have a kind of double logic, so if they emerge and use vouchers they are a problem, while if they resort to black work, since we don't count them, they are not a problem. We must ensure that vouchers are used correctly, without having as a result the reproduction of black work. Our choice is that - we have already declared it and I repeat it here - to proceed to restrict the usability of vouchers, in particular through the definition of stricter rules of traceability, in order to avoid what happens today. In fact, our inspection services (as we learn from other reports) have indicated to us that there are companies that buy vouchers, make the first declaration at the beginning of the month and, after the thirty days within which they have to make the communication of use, decide what type of choice to make, using the voucher as if it were a bus ticket, which is held in the pocket and, if the controller passes, it is stamped, otherwise it is held there for the next round. It is clear that this mechanism is not good because it circumvents the rules, so we intend to intervene on this side. Along with this, of course, we continue the punctual monitoring of situations so that, if further elements emerge that tell us that the voucher is used incorrectly compared to the logics I have mentioned, we will be ready to intervene again, at that point on the issue of standards. Today, in fact, we can do this through a corrective to the law of delegation because it is a subject provided for in law delegation; the legislative change would obviously ask us for a different legislative path, but we are willing to do so if this data emerges. From the point of view of the cannibalization of other contracts, the monitoring that we have done tells us one thing, that is that to some extent we have crossed the contracts to call with this type of situation. Therefore, the sectors that have particularly increased this type of use (i.e. the voucher) have been tourism, services and trade, which are the same three sectors that previously and still today use significantly the contract on call. So, the only crossing point we've checked on this side. I believe that this issue must be dealt with in terms of what we have said. There is also the issue of active policies, ANPAL and employment centres. We have made an agreement with all the Italian Regions to safeguard the activity of public employment centres and today we are working together with the Regions that have already signed all the conventions and made agreements at the territorial level (who with the Provinces, who with the regional agency). On the other hand, since the competence of active labour policies is of the Regions, we tried to build an understanding because otherwise we could not impose a solution at the national level, because today the Constitution says that those competences are of the Italian Regions; therefore, the only way - which seems effective to me - was to agree with the Regions a shared way to manage this situation. At this stage, we are working together with the Regions on the National Plan for Active Policies, which means that we have a funding line for strengthening public employment centres, because we know that simply paying the costs to pay employees and running the centres as they are does not help us to make the active policies that we intend to do instead. Therefore, the only way, again in this case, is to reach an agreement with the Regions to allocate part of the National Employment Plan and part of the regional operational plans for employment to support, qualification and expansion of the capacity to act of the employment centres. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Unfortunately, Minister, you should summarise your speech to come to an end. Mr Poletti, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. I only spend a few words on the time of realization. With regard to the ANPAL, all the decrees that were to be made have been approved and are in progress (e.g. during the registration of the Court of Auditors), and therefore of course they are children of this condition, but the identification of the President and his appointment, the statute, the accounting rules and the operating rules have already been approved, so as soon as this phase is completed, we are able to start the Agency. One last very brief issue concerns the issue of Youth Guarantee. I ask everyone to consider the facility, which is now read in the newspapers, wrong, so there are a million registered and 32,000 employed. That number (32,000) is the occupational bonuses. There are tens of thousands of young people who participated in the Youth Guarantee program, went to work and did not ask for the employment bonus. So putting these two numbers together means putting together two things that photograph a given (32,000) for a measure that had been set up for the occupation; everything else is out of there. Therefore, this intersection does not work. We think we should ask ourselves a question today. In Italy, compared to young people who complete or interrupt their studies, there was nothing. Today there is a facility that links these young people with the institutions. Having a million young people who have chosen to register for this program is something that no one in this country imagined could happen. It is also a matter of great responsibility to the Government for this instrument to function and effectively give opportunities for employability, because Youth Guarantee does not produce jobs, like no law; it can only improve employability conditions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u31	ANGIONES (PD). Madam President, in saying that I am satisfied with the Minister's words, I make two very quick remarks. The reform has two legs, as the Minister reminded us in his reply. On the first I understand everything, but the data is given. For all that concerns the circumstance that finally in Italy you return to have the contract indefinitely as a reference contract, I believe that the data, however imaginatively they can be read, tell us that we are on the right track. I also very much agree with the call to be determined that the open-ended contract, even in the future, will have to cost less than the other contracts. On the second leg, I take the Minister's words for good. I know for a fact that in several regions, including mine, progress has been made in the Ministry-Region agreements, especially on the issues of active policies. I think that on active policies the next few months will become decisive in making the reform really meaningful. The question of employment centres becomes central, because the union between ANPAL and employment centres really becomes the driving force behind the reform.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u34	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I have put an issue which is very technical, I realize, and I repeat it here in declaring myself dissatisfied, because you have not answered me (maybe you can do it again). I have here some more complete data: according to the INPS they were made last year, in 2015, 1,442,000 assumptions with the contributory relief and, calculating the 8,060 euros per head provided as a limit by law, we have an expenditure of 11,600 million. This figure, divided by the 563,000 additional places that have been created, makes 20,600 euros per year for each place, that is 1,721 euros per month. Calculating that the vast majority of recruitments were made in the range between 1,000 and 1,500 euros per month, I would say it is a loss account.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u37	CATALFO (M5S). Madam President, I am clearly not at all satisfied, in the sense that, in any case, Italy continues to maintain the primacy for outgoing flexibility and unfortunately is the last for income support. Having said that, nothing has been done about active policies and everything remains unchanged, fragmentation continues in the world of work and there is no help in the integration of the unemployed, nor in the perception of social shock absorbers. As for the vouchers, our requests and our requests, we had already presented them in the discussion of the delegation law, but they were not accepted; and here we see the result. It goes on to say that the permanent contract will now favour a more stable job, but we are forgetting that it is no longer an indefinite contract, but a different one, because it is clear that the worker can be fired at any time. Therefore, compared to everything we have said and to the non-answers to my questions (which I had sent well in advance to the Minister and the Ministry), we do not feel satisfied and continue to reiterate that this is not the reform of the work that Italy deserved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u40	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr. Minister, I'm unfortunately not satisfied. If you tell me that the voucher legislation will be changed, I must say that I will be careful to see how it will be changed. But you also tell me that I have to look at the whole thing. The whole of the reforms that you have put in place to me seems to be a stabilization of precariousness: you have basically packaged as permanent work a job that is no longer permanent and stable, but permanent and unstable. This has meant that many, also thanks to the help you have given, have moved from fixed-term work, which at least gave security for three years, to permanent work, but to increasing safeguards, starting from a really very low level that gives the opportunity to fire the worker without having any particular problems, when the employer decides it. So there has been a terminological work; basically it is the stabilization of precariousness, and this does not satisfy me.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u43	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, Minister, on the implementation of the effects of the jobs act we are satisfied, we have believed from the outset in this reform and we have seen excellent results. As the Minister will have noticed, I have allowed myself to enter a particular of his project, the so-called Beautiful Schools, which with 21 million will be able to stabilize 11,000 people and improve our schools. Knowing that he could not have given us an answer in this sitting, my Group presented an urgent questioning today, which I will hand over, in order to ensure that we can give jobs and jobs, but above all to improve schools with the project Beautiful Schools, which is a flagship of this Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u46	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, I have noted your words: your interventions would be aimed at boosting employment and stimulating investment by relying on labour market conditions. But it is precisely the "sure" that is missing, because the operation is three-year and the real calculations will unfortunately have to be done in 2018. You say that in the future, however, permanent work will cost less. But this is also a concern because, since the money will not be there to continue to finance, we will have to think that companies will be burdened, that maybe they have occasional jobs and work of a different nature. In our opinion, the solution would be a flat tax: you work as much as you want and wherever you want and pay a fixed; freedom for those who work, freedom for those who hire. This is a solution to the problem, but unfortunately we do not want to tackle it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u49	ZIZA (CoR). Minister, we hope that the next question time will also be discussed in the light of the effects of recent changes and reform under the public procurement directives 2014/24 and 2014/23. As for your answers, we are not satisfied. We believe that this praised reform will unfortunately go out with the end of the incentives, and the signs are unfortunately already visible.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u50	Let us now turn to the questions on the prospects for the revision of pension legislation, to which the Minister for Labour and Social Policy Poletti will respond.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u53	FAVERO (PD). Minister, on the occasion of the examination of the 2016 Stability Act right here in the Senate, the Government gave a favourable opinion on an agenda that committed it to addressing the issue of outgoing flexibility in the pension system. A number of proposals for reform were then put forward by various institutional actors. Each of them needs to take financial sustainability into account, in order to meet the needs of workers and workers, without overburdening public finances and incurring negative judgments on the part of the European Union as well. In this sense, the Government has already carried out some interventions in the last law of stability, including, for example, the incentive to part-time for those close to retirement. I would also like to point out that proper information to workers and workers by the institutions can reduce the uncertainty of citizens about their future pension. You recently, Minister, expressed your thoughts on outgoing flexibility by saying that various options agreed with the Minister for Economic Affairs are being evaluated and that the reasons for this are accompanied by the promotion of active ageing pathways. I therefore ask you, Minister, what the Government's intentions are on the issue of outgoing flexibility for workers (e.g. whether there will be an extension of the Women's Option to 2018, or whether it will become structural) and for workers and what measures are being taken by the Ministry, in particular for those who have done a regular job, for early and disabled workers, also taking into account the increase in life expectancy, so as to promote turnover in the labour market and therefore for our young people.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u56	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Minister, without a recovery in consumption, it is unthinkable to recover the economy and employment in a country like ours: in Italy there are, in fact, many millions of pensioners (and they represent a very important part of our economy) and then there are all the others who hope one day to get to retirement, maybe very soon if you are the right age. Well, if these people do not have confidence in the future and fear cuts in their pensions they do not consume. They may fear the cuts in their pensions due to the continued statements by the President of the INPS that he wants to move towards a contribution system for all, including those who still have to retire and who today would benefit from a pro quota system and even for those who are already retired. In addition, we have seen proposals to switch survivor's pensions from the social security side to the welfare side, which would mean that many people, widowers or widowers, would be deprived of their pension if they were wrong to put something aside and clearly this cannot allow a revival of consumption. My question is why the President of the INPS, appointed by the Government, as well as the anticipation of other measures continue to terrify taxpayers and cause them to reduce consumption? This is even about those who could consume; then there are those who do not have the money and cannot consume it, but if the one who has it spends it, maybe you create some opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u59	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister, whom I would remind you that seasonal workers are still suffering, so we expect the regime to be extended for 2016 to keep them calm by repealing this new unemployment benefit (NASPI). As far as pension matters are concerned, we want to understand whether the Government intends to propose appropriate legislative initiatives in order to amend the legislation that currently sees the payment for the reunification of contributions, which is irrational. On the one hand, in fact, you ask people to change jobs, claiming that they no longer have to aspire to the fixed position, so once they have coordinated and continuous collaboration contracts, another time by employees, another by self-employed workers and then finally when they retire they also have to pay for the reunion. Mr Minister, do not talk to me about aggregation because I am talking about reunion, so a single social security institution that has to give them the pension, but not for that reason they have to pay. We have already proposed an agenda to this effect, which has been accepted, so we expect it to be effective. On the other hand, I would like to understand what the Government intends to do in order to give a precise interpretation to the judgments of the TAR of Lazio, which fortunately declared the illegality of the calculation of invalidity pensions within the ISEE. Besides, don't touch survivor's pensions! Don't come and tell me something like, when ever? There was absolutely the inclusion of such a measure, therefore the transformation from benefit to benefit, which means taking on income. There are 6 million pensioners who have an income of less than 750 euros; of these, 400,000 live alone, so that means that with 750 euros per month they live below the poverty line. I conclude by saying that we are calling loudly for the possibility of repealing the Fornero law, amending it and ensuring that those who have a 40-year contribution retire in such a way as to enable young people to work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u62	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr Minister, for reasons of time I do not wish to make all the considerations I had set out to ask you before I ask you the questions. I would like to ask whether it is not appropriate to grant one year's figurative contribution for each child up to a maximum of five years, valid for all legal purposes, for the purpose of the maturation of the requirement of contributory seniority. Basically, this benefit consists of a reduction in the pensionable age of one year for each child born, up to a maximum of five years. Moreover, starting from the awareness of the indispensability of treatment, I wonder whether it is not appropriate to ensure that the period of overtime leave, from which workers and workers who assist family members living with serious disabilities can benefit, according to national legislation currently equal to two years, is raised to three years: I therefore think that paid leave for all purposes and with relevance to pension purposes. Furthermore, I would ask the Minister whether he does not consider it appropriate to put workers at a reasonable age in relation to the occupation and occupation carried out. There is a need to review a series of wear and tear jobs that need to be catalogued in function not only of night work, but also of the physical severity that workloads entail. Again, I ask the Minister whether it is not necessary to give back to workers the right to choose when to retire, within an interval of sixty to seventy years of age, except - of course - the limit of contribution to thirty-five years, with decreasing penalties between sixty and sixty-five years and with an increasing incentive up to the seventieth year of age. Last but not least, the theme of exodus. I ask the Minister whether and when the eighth safeguard, which I hope is the last, can be implemented. I apologize for having spoken quickly, but the time available is contained and the questions are many (in addition to those asked, I would have wanted to formulate others).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u65	Mr Barani (AL-A). Minister, we too want to draw your attention to the Italian pension problem. The key to interpretation is that of a policy aimed at promoting generational change to meet the needs of many young people in the future. Mr Minister, although we are bound to do something, we must do something rather than remain inoperative and contribute to a social malaise that leads to disaffection and growth of populist impulses that are not good for our democracy. It would therefore be a question of finding intermediate solutions that give at least one sign of hope. One of the possible solutions is to operate only in the public sector, if anything limiting intervention to certain sectors, such as health, education, universities and police forces. In these cases, the rule of quotient 101 or 102 could be re-introduced without any penalty, or that of quotient 100 with a penalty of 3%. The posts left vacant, in a proportion to be defined (e.g. one in every three), could be filled with recruitment of young people. The measure should not lead to higher public finance charges. In fact, what is saved in the form of lower staff costs would be the higher pension burden. In the context of public finance, in fact, this proposal is nothing more than a round that does not alter the fundamentals. It would ultimately be a virtuous operation from a number of points of view and not only from a purely economic and financial point of view. Minister, we need young people to solve the problem of an anchovied administration. I hope, therefore, that this problem, to which I have just referred, can be taken into account in order to give a positive response to the many who seek a decent location to pursue a life project.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u68	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, I would like to talk to you about the harmful consequences of the Fornero reform, which are not only exodus but, above all, the generational blockade of the labour market caused by the sudden increase in the retirement age. For years the Northern League has been fighting for the overcoming of this pension reform, proposing the introduction of a quota, as a sum of age and contribution, to the achievement of which is access to retirement. The call for flexible access to retirement is the same as those who voted for that reform, for example the Dem minority, which is among the proposers of the 100 quota. Also the president of the INPS, Boeri, appointed by this Government, says that an intervention in this sense is no longer postponed. Even the unions, awakened, organized a national mobilization against the Fornero law for next April 2. Above all you, Minister, in an interview with the daily newspaper La Stampa in Turin, just yesterday you confirmed what we always denounced and assumed that the sudden increase in retirement age took away a lot of opportunities from young people. We therefore ask you, Minister, if, after last year's promises and repeated dances on the likely steps to revise the Fornero reform in the framework of the Stability Act, you intend to proceed, perhaps within the current year, with your review with the introduction of flexible access mechanisms to retirement.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u71	ZIZA (CoR). Minister, from mid-April the so-called orange bust will arrive. It will be received at home by private sector workers and non-digitalised self-employed workers, i.e. they have not yet requested the PIN online to access the INPS website. The envelope contains the summary of contributions paid and the simulation of the social security allowance in relation to the current cost of living that the worker will receive as a pensioner. However, the calculation of the pension does not allow to verify the contributions paid in several cases, it does not make projections which consider periods not yet reunited or years of graduation not yet redeemed. In addition, it is impossible to calculate the aggregation of contributions paid abroad and there is no provision for the general scheme meanings such as, for example, the female option, the Dini contribution option or the separate management calculation. What initiatives does the Government intend to take in order to provide the answers to the above-mentioned shortcomings and what are the timetables for the adoption of a new comprehensive reform of the social security system that protects acquired rights and that, at the same time, guarantees the real respect of the pact between generations?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u72	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Poletti, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u73	Madam President, thank you for your questions. I would like to solve at first glance Senator Malan's observation about the risk of intervention through cuts and other types of situations that can be produced, as a data of uncertainty and with negative effects on consumption. The Government has said and reiterates here by the voice of its Minister to social policies that it does not have any intervention in the study that tampers with and changes the pensions of Italian citizens, neither those of survivors, nor of any other kind. From this point of view the reflections, evaluations, press articles and everything that revolves around these events, from the point of view of the Government is without any foundation. So, I believe that this issue can be resolved in this sense. There is also one element at the general level that has been repeatedly represented by both the President of the Council with his own statements and by myself. I refer to the question of the need to reconsider the situation of social security rules, knowing that there is a need for a particularly careful analysis because the objectives that must be pursued and the conditions within which the issue can be addressed, which goes in general terms, under the notion of outgoing flexibility, if not adequately considered, on the one hand would make it impossible to practice these solutions and, on the other hand, would risk producing effects, damage and very important problems. From this point of view, I think we can start from reaffirming a conviction and, that is, that the so-called Fornero law certainly has the wrong elements within itself, in particular if reference is made to the lack of a graduality able to connect the situation prior to what was going to be achieved. Quoting exodates is even trivial, but this is the figure, which, however, refers not only to exodates, but also to a number of other situations that are under discussion today, but that from the point of view of the results of the public budget, if taken into account as they are, would cause problematicity that today are not "solvable." This issue is there and there is a sharing on the need to intervene. There is a willingness to do so, which I repeat here. The topic is still on the agenda of the work of this Ministry and the Italian Government. I believe that intervention should be considered from a number of points of view and, in particular, from the need to take account of certain pillars. The first is to maintain, over time, the stability and sustainability of the Italian social security system, which represents a firm point in the balance of public spending, in the face of the great debt accumulated by our country, which however occasionally disappears from our discussions. In fact, the discussions we are discussing are a matter of realism, in the sense that they have to deal with an historical fact, acquired, with which public policies today can only be reckoned. Then there is the second fact, relating to compatibility with the parameters and commitments that our country has made at European level. We all remember the situation in which this legislation was adopted and we know that it is part of the commitments we have made. Therefore, a change in this situation can only be seen in a general discussion, which our country is doing with Europe, on the subject of expansionary policies, capable of producing an improvement in consumption and investment, with everything we know. Then there is the third pillar, which is that of compatibility with budgetary law and public accounting, which does not allow us to update future savings to date. Many of the hypotheses that are put forward, legitimately, start from the idea that we proceed to some penalty for those who choose to get out of work early and that these penalties will accumulate over time - in hypothesis - an amount equal to the burden that is being constituted; therefore we can make some sort of compensation and the game is done. From this point of view, however, things cannot be done in these terms and in these ways and therefore we need to build mechanisms that allow us - beyond the will to do so in this way - however and in any case, to be respectful of the accounting rules of our country and the budget laws. Then there is the issue of equity and social sustainability: many of the hypotheses that have been advanced provide for the possibility of a penalty, against an advance of retirement, of which I mentioned earlier. As you know, this is an issue that is under discussion and still asks us a question. Many pensions, in fact, have a low level. I would also like to respond to the comments of those who ask the citizen to be free to choose under what conditions and with what times to retire: I believe that this is a totally legitimate and acceptable aspiration. We must ask ourselves, however, what will happen over time to that citizen who would already have a low pension if there is a rule that allows him to anticipate retirement and bear a burden? We could find ourselves having poor citizens, who will not be able to support themselves, even with the pension they have chosen anyway. Of course, we could say that this situation stems from their free choice, but then, after the debate on the subject of free choice, if those citizens find themselves in a state of poverty and difficulty, can we abandon them? I don't think so. So I don't think the situation can be solved in this way. I therefore believe that we should consider the question of how to hold together the right aspiration for exiting flexibility, with fairness from a social point of view, which does not ensure that a problem we are facing today is put again tomorrow, in terms of social problems and poverty. In view of these elements, the work we are doing is exactly this: I hope that there are the conditions that, in the Stability Act for 2017, where the great numbers and the fundamental political choices are placed, this issue can find its answer. In this regard, I do not make any other considerations, because the methods and types of intervention have been widely represented by different subjects. Since the subject is so delicate and sensitive, I believe that the right way to operate on the part of the Government can only be that for which, having matured the conviction and the awareness that a certain type of intervention is possible and sustainable from all the points of view that I have listed, at that point it will become the subject of a collective discussion. Advances on this side, however, I think they would be at least inappropriate. I'd like to pick up a figure for a few seconds. It's not that the government hasn't taken care of pensions at this stage. He did so through the theme of exodates and all related activities. He did it with the no-tax area surgery. He did so in relation to the topic of the possibilities of part-time work in the last period of work. This is a general theme, which must be taken into consideration. Faced with an objective condition of lengthening life expectations and, therefore, presence in work, we cannot imagine maintaining a dry regulation that maintains the same conditions from when you start to when you arrive. We think, therefore, that this is a first opportunity to verify the attractiveness of this type of intervention. Some other questions that have been asked relate to reunion. On this subject, I must say that, even in the 2016 Stability Act, the Government and Parliament had worked on this issue. It is our intention to propose it again in the 2017 Stability Act, because we believe that this is one of the issues that must be addressed and resolved. Our intention on the subject of reunion is exactly this. As far as the ISEE is concerned, our intention is to implement the ruling of the Council of State. Of course, the consequences are those which the judgment itself proposes in relation to disability pensions and to all issues related to situations for people with disabilities. So, all those situations have to be solved at this stage. With regard to usurping work, we are now working together with a parliamentary initiative which is examining the possibility of early retirement of construction workers and those who work in heights. We all know that it is not easy to determine and define the categories of worn-out work, because some general meanings do not help to define this situation on time. There are already margins in the law on which it can intervene. We stand by this hypothesis and are trying to solve the problem. On the subject of women it is objective that there is a situation of specific problematicity. On the one hand, the European story has led us to close a scissors very quickly, producing a very significant change of state; on the other hand, we have tried to implement some of the initiatives already within the jobs act, through the improvement of the relationship between living and working conditions. A hypothesis such as the one proposed here, to evaluate the issue of maternity and nursing work as one of the elements in the definition of early exit mechanisms, I think it is reasonable to consider it. In order for this hypothesis to be implemented in practice, the first obstacle to be faced is Europe, which continues to stress that we must remain within constraints and a level playing field. If we find ways like that of motherhood, I believe that this solution is quite sustainable even in the debate at European level. The last point concerns the story of the orange envelope. I believe that from this point of view we must say - at least this is our assessment - that this is a good initiative. In fact, making all our citizens aware of their social security status is an element of information that allows everyone, at least, to take note or to question himself with respect to their condition and their future. The observations regarding the fact that, as it is made today, it maintains elements of incompleteness we have turned them to the INPS and we will verify with the same Institute the possibility to update this tool to make it more effective. However, let us start from the fact that this seems to us a very interesting and useful tool. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u76	FAVERO (PD). Minister, I am pleased with the answers which I believe have been comprehensive, comprehensive and which show the seriousness of the work currently being done by the Government. I would venture to say that I see there a welding between the reform of the jobs act and that of pensions, anticipated in the law of stability, as I have already mentioned. There is, in fact, a link between the reform of pensions and that of social shock absorbers and active policies, so as to address the issue with a qualitative leap, leaving us behind an Italy of accommodations at the expense of the community and above all - alas - of future generations. It is therefore necessary to open up to a different approach for those who lose their jobs, even in mature age, with opportunities, new opportunities for relocation, as has been mentioned, through active policies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u79	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr. Minister, I must say strangely amazed and satisfied to hear from your voice that the Fornero law contains incorrect elements about the lack of graduality between the old and the new system that has been grasped, which in fact is the truth. I find myself - I repeat - satisfied. I will conclude, Minister, with your second line. You are the voice of the Government, you are a Minister, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy; if on the part of the Government there is a guarantee that you do not touch pensions, you do not touch the reversibility and everything that has been done and said is the result of fantasy, then before the President of the INPS Boeri who continues on this issue, someone takes over the situation, takes this man back, otherwise he will become a real competitor of the Government because he opposes the Minister of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u82	PUGLIA (M5S). Minister, I am not satisfied at all. I think the answers were pretty vague. As far as the reunions are concerned, all right, the government wanted to do something in 2016 and now it says that we will do something in 2017; because you have rejected all the amendments referring precisely to the reunion; that is the fact. As far as the ISEE is concerned, Minister, if it is not fully and immediately implemented, people will go to public offices and they will not know what to do. If you don't do it right away, people are sick. On the other hand, as regards the possibility of flexible pension treatment at the age of 40, it is obvious to us that we believe that we need to implement it immediately; we simply need to adopt our amendments. As far as reversibility is concerned, it is very simple: immediately withdraw the so-called poverty bill. In addition, it is EUR 200. If you really want to do something for people there is a citizenship income, which really gives dignity to the person. Otherwise delete that rule in the poverty bill, which goes to attack the reversibility, as it transforms it from benefit - which is - into welfare benefit. It is therefore essential.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u85	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Minister, with regard to pensions, I believe that the essential point of sustainability is to put in place a series of investments that will create jobs, in order to increase the social security funds, which are then necessary to pay pensions. If we can make investments, if the state invests and creates jobs, there will be more contributions and we will also be able to respond to the need for pensions and provide for an early exit from work. In fact, to work for a long time, as I have said several times, you get to the end of the race and to the finish line in a worn out way and you are not even more productive. There are many jobs, as you said - you are reviewing those in the field of construction, but there are many others: I can think of those carried out by truck drivers, by nurses - who are purely usuring, who at a certain age are no longer sustainable and are a further cost because people often arrive at the end of the race, work badly, do not produce, get sick, stay at home - which is still a cost - without leaving room for those who are younger and have more strength to work, and would better respond to work needs. As far as women and men are concerned, Europe has rightly told us to equalize age: that is fine, but, as you said, it is important to recognise the work of care for women, because it is true that women live longer than men - thank God! - but in fact they wear out more; they have a much larger workload. I am satisfied with your staff and this Government's willingness to meet the need to change the Pension Act.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u88	Mr Barani (AL-A). Minister, we are satisfied with the statement that, with the four pillars you have told us, in the Stability Act 2017, within the limits of budgetary possibilities, you will review the prospects for the revision of pension legislation. He also said you reported to the INPS. Let me point out to you - as my Divine colleague has already done - that you must put your hand in the governance of the INPS. There is a resigning general manager, a deputy director who carries out the ordinary administration - not the extraordinary one, so it is not in full power - and there is an INPS president who is somewhat naive, who wants to be good. In short, you have to take a look at governance because we cannot have a social security institution that is at odds - and without governance - with the Government. The fact remains that ours is a positive judgment on the work you are doing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u91	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I am pleased with the answer you have given, namely that the Government does not intend to make pension cuts, but then the Government must take care to remove the President of the INPS - who is not raining from heaven but was appointed by the Government - as he continues to make statements in the opposite direction. It should also withdraw the bill containing measures to combat poverty, approved by the Council of Ministers, which provides for the transfer of the survivor from the pension (so, as an unconditional right from other economic situations of the person), to the assistance, which is therefore conditional on the economic possibilities of the person (so, those who own a house no longer receive the pension). Finally, it should also be said to the President-in-Office of the Council, who, in a well-known television show, said that the pension should be reduced to his ultra-Novant grandmother. The answer is fine, but other things go in the opposite direction. I wouldn't want the sunto to be: ==References====External links==* Official website
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u94	ZIZA (CoR). Minister, thank you for clarifying and sharing with us the improvements to make to the so-called orange envelope: we believe it is essential not to create illusions. Good standard on wear and tear. I would like to point out in particular those who have dealt with asbestos - which are so many - and those who work with ENEL's coal-fired power stations, many throughout Italy, who find it very difficult not to be encouraged to retire first.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u95	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank the Minister for Labour and Social Policy for his helpfulness and all the interrogators.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u96	I would like to inform the House that, as has been pointed out by the groups, the meeting on Tuesday 5 April will begin at 12 noon with the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the case of Giulio Regeni; immediately after the debate, the session will be suspended to resume at 16.30, with the discussion of the decree-law on the reform of cooperative credit banks.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u97	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-602.ana.u98	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 5 April, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.13 p.m.
