ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.35 a.m. and resumed at 9.55 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u9	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I renew my request for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the time limit of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:57 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u13	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2299. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the general debate was over, the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government took place, a proposal was rejected not to move on to the examination of the articles, the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and relations with Parliament raised the question of trust, on which the debate took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u16	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, we are here today to vote for yet another confidence. We were prepared, ladies and gentlemen, with our critical remarks and assessments, to express our vote on the law of conversion of the Decree-Law on urgent provisions concerning the functionality of the school system and research, originally composed of only two provisions, of content as far from each other and even more so from the reasons for extraordinary necessity and urgency required by Article 77 of our Constitution. But this is not a novelty, as it is not the fact that a law of conversion takes on the role of an all-inclusive text of provisions completely detached from the original text and devoid of any coherence and organicity. This measure strikes a further blow to the credibility of the institutions and Parliament and to the quality of the laws. The rapporteur is excited to say that the time for toilet paper to be taken to schools is over. [[Applause from Senator Montevecchi.]] Apart from the inopportunity of the assertion, I would like to ask Senator Puglisi, who sits with me in an authoritative way in the 7th Commission, to be firmly convinced of this and for how long it has been missing from a southern school and the rest of Italy. Already in itself it was intended to convert a decree-law on the continuation of the extraordinary plan for the restoration of the decorum and functionality of school buildings (the so-called beautiful school program) until the date of 30 November 2016, through the allocation of an additional €64 million in 2016. Too bad that, since the start of the project beautiful schools, instead of an increase there has been a contraction in the number of workers involved in cleaning activities as well as restoration of the physical and infrastructural decorum of the state educational institutions. In fact, compared to 19,843 workers surveyed in May 2014, today they result in service 18,148, corresponding to 12,846 full time equivalent considering all the Regions. Could this be seen as a sign that this extraordinary plan, despite the appropriations, is not actually giving the results due? Not to mention the anti-corruption opinion of the National Authority compared to the extension of contracts for school cleaning services, which unfortunately take place without a tender. Article 2 of the Decree-Law, on the other hand, provides for the allocation of a contribution of EUR 3 million from the year 2016, for the stabilisation of the Gran Sasso Science Institute International PhD Experimental School and the recognition of its activities. This structure will assume stability as a university with a special system, with dubious profiles compared to the financial coverage, since the expenditure quantified within the limit of 3 million euros per year is mainly intended for recruitment of teaching staff, leaving out the fact that the institute needs a minimum staff that allows the Abruzzo Experimental School the institutional functioning and accreditation of its activities. And, in fact, the technical report gives very few indications as to the running costs of the institute and is equally incomplete as to the adequacy of the resources envisaged as a whole to cover, i.e. 20% remaining of the annual budget established. In addition to this, in the last week amendments have been tabled by the Government introducing the most disparate provisions: from contributions to equal schools that receive pupils with disabilities, to the increase of the fees for the commissioners of the competition for recently banned teachers; from the adaptation of the legislation of access to regulated professions for agrotechnicians, geometries, agricultural experts and industrial experts to the extension to immigrants with residence permit of the benefit of the famous electronic card with the amount of 500 euros to attend theatrical and cinematographic performances, cultural events and for the access to museums. Ad abundantiam is then planned the research center in the area of the former Expo of Milan. We understand the urgency of giving a suitable destination to that site, but the so-called Human Technopole seems, in all conscience, to subtract huge resources from Italian scientific research, mortifying the researchers and disappointing the many honest, conscientious and free scientific operators. Therefore, the system of national research needs not so much new walls, new containers, but content and resources to stabilize operators, investment in sophisticated technologies and finally transform excellences from extraordinary episodes into ordinary governance of the system of knowledge, skills coming from our secondary school, our universities and our polytechnics. There is therefore a great deal of sharing, as far as we are concerned, of the reflections expressed by Senator Cattaneo and we invite the Government to take this into account in the interest of the country. All this is justified by the fact that the title of the decree-law allows to assume that it may contain heterogeneous provisions and not even vaguely fall within the scope of the functionality of the school system and research. For these reasons and not to indulge again this time what, frankly, appears as legislative schizophrenia, the Group of Conservatives and Reformists will deny confidence to the Government. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u19	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, even today, given that we are talking about good school, good school and good school, the Minister is not present. So, we wait for the Minister when it is time to vote on the confidence or, if not, we will send a request to "Who has seen it?" so that we can know what happened to him and consider that we are dealing with a matter of his competence. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It's okay, ma'am. We also said yesterday that school is a priority of this Government and of the majority; we can see that the priorities are others, as can be seen also from the benches of the virtually empty majority. It's okay, and it's still okay. We would have liked to have used the time available to us to talk about amendments and agendas; to be able to discuss the content of this measure. We would have liked to have finished the examination already last night, because in the end, if they had not put the trust, we would not have had to waste our time doing the Conference of the Leaders; we would not have used all that time just for a debate on trust. However, we had asked for twenty minutes and we did not use one, because we thought it was practically useless. We would have liked to use time to talk about the concrete things. And instead, we are here to make explanations of vote on the confidence of this Government, which - I repeat - does not even know what it proposes. As a result, why should we trust this provision, just as you asked for it last year on good school, a good law - in your opinion - with the harmful effects - in our opinion - that has ultimately worsened the conditions of those who live and work in it? Today, too, our vote will therefore be a vote against, and not so much because we consider the Government in general bankrupt, but it will be a vote against the substance of the measure and the method used. Now, whenever you are afraid of confronting the House, put your trust in it; whenever you are afraid that some MEP, perhaps a majority - as happened yesterday - will tell you that you are doing something wrong, put your trust. We do not think it is a good thing to work, to work and to deal with those who are dealing with Parliament in this way at the moment. I say more. I continue to be of the idea that by now the Italians will give it to you in October and, therefore, continue to put as many trusts as you want. We used to talk about the Nation Party. Here is the party of the cadrega, which will always give you confidence because it is the cadrega that allows him to give it to you. Outside there is no party of the cadrega. Outside are the Italians who see and suffer what you are proposing and doing. Mr President, I use the time available to me, as well as to say no for the umpteenth time, to read you a document that has been sent to us by the teachers, in this case the Midas, who are undergoing your competition. This is how they see your contest; I like to make you understand it for the simple reason that last year you voted standards without knowing what we were talking about. The school competition in progress makes water from all sides. It is not thought that it is yet another complaint of the teachers who participate in it. In addition to the senselessness of this selection, useless for all those teachers already evaluated and qualified, with waste of public money of all Italians, this competition is the tangible demonstration of the inadequacy of those who, with protection and supposition, told lies. This competition has highlighted flaws that, if they did not concern the lives of thousands of professors, they would be worthy of the most tragicomical stories. Instructions provided superficially and amateurishly on the technical operations of carrying out the tests, in the computer-based formula of which Minister Giannini has repeatedly boasted and I would have liked to tell him in the face. Cineca program badly built, with criticality at the level of embarrassing programming. Hundreds of reports of system errors that have compromised the candidates' tests. Computers that went tilt and that did not allow a test to be carried out according to a minimum security standard of content returned during data saving. Wrong information given by many classroom technicians, totally unprepared and unaware of the criticalities inherent in the platform in use for the tests. Thousands of responses that turn out not to have been saved from the system because of the above-mentioned problems and that will prejudice the outcome of as many candidates. Publication of contradictory news from the various regional school offices about the competition, which caused problems to the candidates. Equal opportunities not respected for categories of teachers (e.g. mothers at the end of pregnancy or with pregnancy at risk and teachers with serious health problems, who in fact face this competition without the necessary protection). Distance from the locations and impossibility to carry out the contest near home. Operational news published officially by regional offices that gave incorrect information to candidates and corrected retroactively to put a shameful fig leaf where there is matter for thousands of appeals (there are videos and screenshots that prove it). One hundred and fifty minutes of time for the written test to be able to organize as many as eight answers that required reasoning, accuracy and a articulation not commensurate with the required speed. Dactylographers or professors? Didactic design and methodology require more relaxed times. Lack of evaluation grids and commissions put in place in some way. In conclusion, the competition procedure demonstrates the unpreparedness of those who should ensure transparency and maximum efficiency, and that once again they will be overwhelmed by appeals from those who, rightly, are being mocked. If this is the use that the Government makes of the money of the Italians, that the latter know and be aware that the mockery is not only of the professors but also their own. For this reason, we will not vote for trust. Shame! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u22	Mr Barani (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, the measure on which the Government raised the question of trust concerns the extension of the beautiful schools programme and the stabilisation of the Gran Sasso Science Institute International PhD Experimental School. Regarding the latter, it must be pointed out that an intervention becomes necessary in order to guarantee the continuation of the activity of the institute that, without the financing provided for by the decree in question, would in fact see nullified also the activities carried out from 2013. We, unlike the two previous Members, will of course trust this measure and we will therefore vote in favour of it. Aiming at culture and education, on the one hand, and at its own excellence, on the other hand, is a commitment to which the Government and Parliament of each country should be called upon to comply, more rightly in a context such as the Italian one, in which a fundamental sector on which the future depends has just been reformed. Lately, he has been increasingly discussing the question of the right protection of Made in Italy, and our Group has also fought a battle at the level of amending proposals, trying to push the Government to do more for the protection of Made in Italy and our wealth, the potential that must find a right outlet. Also investing in innovation, research, high training, new technologies goes precisely in this direction, which is an all-Italian peculiarity that is recognized to us in the world. In a world context in which even socio-cultural distances are getting thinner and thinner, realities like the Gran Sasso Science Institute - but obviously not only this - must be supported without "se" and without "ma". The activities of the institute have also been analysed by the National Agency for the Evaluation of the University System and Research, which has expressed a positive opinion on its work. Finally, it should not be forgotten that the birth of the Experimental School of International Doctorate Gran Sasso Science Institute is part of a context with economic implications, having been imagined in the aftermath of the earthquake that devastated the Eagle as one of the tools to revive the area devastated by the earthquake. As far as the beautiful school program is concerned, it is clear that the decoration of school buildings is crucial for the quality and quantity of activities with which our children form. We do not have to read the letters from the periphery when we are in this House, but we have to plan to legislate and try to carry out programmes. We have to say what we want to do here. Our Group was born for reforms and we want to make the laws that serve to ensure that they are implemented and not interpreted. Following the government agreement, concluded on March 28, 2014 at the Ministry of Labour, services for the restoration of decoration, small maintenance and gardening aimed at the redevelopment of school buildings and merged into a project subsequently called by the Government beautiful schools lasting twenty months, until March 31, 2016, for a total amount of 450 million, with which the Government managed to safeguard 11,000 jobs. As regards the public interest, the activation of the beautiful schools project has ensured not only the health of the schools concerned, but also the safety of the schools, as attested by the MIUR itself, which reported the results achieved on its institutional site. All this - it is emphasized - has happened committing 40% less of funds allocated in the period 2010-2013 by the MIUR for the contract in question. We remain on the subject of the measure and we vote for it because of these specificities. We are not here to make electoral proclamations that are of no use to anyone. On March 8, 2016 a framework agreement was signed between Government CGIL, CISL, Uil and the system of companies involved in the beautiful schools program, in which the Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers De Vincenti confirms the willingness of the Government to support the continuation of the program beautiful schools until November 31, 2016, also through a special regulatory intervention, identifying the availability of 64 million within the budget of the MIUR and giving the willingness to accept requests of IGC in derogation from the companies for the workers concerned. Seventy per cent of the institutions still need the interventions agreed within the industrial plan contained in the March 2014 agreement, since the resources provided up to the present time by the MIUR have allowed only a partial, albeit significant, restoration of the school buildings concerned, also in order not to frustrate the work carried out within the project and in order to provide an adequate response to the actual needs of the schools. The project ensured that employment standards were maintained through the employment of workers in new jobs. The latter is of considerable importance in view of the serious employment problems of the South, where those who were previously ex-LSU workers and historical contracts, to date to be considered dependent on school institutions, are concentrated more. The expected cost of using the Integration Fund is estimated at 45 million, with the reduction of the remuneration of workers of 20% which, together with the 64 million provided for in the MIUR budget, lead to an expenditure commitment of 109 million. Our Group is trying to make a contribution so that, in the coming months, Minister Giannini and the Undersecretary D'Onghia - here listening - avoiding the integration fund and finding 21 million, manage to give additional employment to 11,000 people, taking away to the INPS and Boeri those 45 million that do not really serve anything leaving them at home. Let's put 21 million on top of it and take action to complete this great project. So ours is a commitment, as I told you, that seeks to bring our contribution to making laws, reforms for this country to be modernized. I hear you try to keep the cadre, the place, the high chair. We, in a very clear, perhaps Franciscan way, are here and we do not ask for seats but we support the Government on the laws and reforms that we share. They are others who have had seats for ten years, have done nothing and have failed! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). How many Commissions have you given?! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Centinario, move on. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). How many Commissions gave you to your friends?! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Your observation has been heard, Senator Centinario. Please continue, Senator Barani. Mr Barani (AL-A (MpA)). Thank you, Mr President. The tongue beats where the tooth hurts and they know of failure for ten years... [[Comments of Senators Centinario and Perrone]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u23	Senator Perrone, you're always quiet, not a food...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u24	Colleagues, let us conclude Senator Barani, who still has one minute available, plus recovery (as in football). Mr Barani (AL-A (MpA)). In fact, to be taken up by those who table 80 million amendments in the interests of the nation, seems to me out of place, out of time and out of space. It's medical, but let's forget it. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). You can't make one! Mr Barani (AL-A (MpA)). I repeat that we are making our "Franciscan" contribution - let me say the word - and we are not asking for anything. We are trying to move forward with measures and we are not going to turn around and say that, in any case, our commitment is aimed at missing the legal number or going to seek signatures to make referendums and demolish what is done. We want to help. We will not be constituent Fathers and we do not want to identify with them either; but you can be sure that at that time they sought maximum consent and points of encounter, not division. Even though they had granite majorities, they tried to enlarge them and to raise a nation that had been punished far too much in the last war. That is why, Mr President, we do not really get passionate about reading letters or polytologists who consider us one way or another. They're commentators, they do their job, they live on this job. Unlike them, we try to build. We support their criticism in a democratic way but, equally democratically, we are here representatives of a people that constitutionally allows us to work to carry out the necessary reforms. We do this seriously and with competence and we try to do it in the greatest possible confidence. Then, if there are those who gnaw and those who do not want to consider us, do it; we will continue in our action.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u27	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, it is useless to repeat what has already been widely heard in the debate. It is not so upbuilding that we have a priori opinions and therefore always feel the same interventions, prejudiced if they come from the majority and prejudiced against if they come from the opposition. This is not a particularly stimulating and interesting debate. If we go to the merits of the measure, there is a clear prevalence of the positive aspects, which lead to an overall assessment of the measure and the question of trust. Some aspects are even due, also as a form of implementation and implementation of what this Parliament has already approved with the reform of good school. I am thinking of school construction and the release of funds, which are being put into circulation, and that is a good thing. Other aspects - it is useless to deny it - are problematic. I am thinking, in particular, of the total non-systematicity shown towards the research system, taking funding here and there, without a clear and identifiable policy in such a strategic area. Many have criticized the method used by the Government. Affixing the question of trust actually creates difficulties, but - at the same time - shifts the centre of gravity from the strict merit of the subject to the survival of the Government. We all know that there is an abuse of the use of the confidence instrument, however, in the face of the government's political choice to demand confidence and tie its survival to such a measure, the question is whether the Executive can fall for the experimental school of international doctorate Gran Sasso. Evidently the answer is no, considering the enormous consequences that would fall on the country. In addition, the positive aspects which, as I have said, are prevalent in the measure would fail. Therefore, the imposition of the question of trust somehow clears the table from the negative aspects. It remains undeniable that this is not a rewarding way of working for anyone, especially in this House, but - I can imagine - also in the Government. I recall that almost three years ago, under the Led Government, the Senate Committee on Constitutional Affairs approved a document, addressed to the Government itself, containing suggestions on how to resolve and improve, as a Constitution unchanged, some aspects of the now age-old problem of relations between Government and Parliament. To be honest, it must be said that some suggestions have entered the text of the constitutional reform, but many others could still be followed and implemented for a healthier relationship between the Government and Parliament, which is certainly desirable. In conclusion, looking at the full part of the glass and at the fact that we are facing a matter of trust, there can be no doubt that the vote of the Group for the Autonomouss-PSI-MAIE will be in favour. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u30	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, as I said yesterday, we are once again in the play of absurdity. The Government puts trust in the conversion of the decree-law under consideration, but none of us have yet been able to understand the real reason for it. As we said yesterday in the general debate, we do not like this decree-law on the substance and not on the basis of prejudice. We have expressed our idea by tabling a number of amendments which fall within the physiological normality of the parliamentary dialectic and, therefore, not such as to leak dangerous obstructive intents. We would have done something else. We would have put urgent measures in place for school and research in order to stem and repair the disasters of good school, which is why - and I am addressing Senator Palermo in particular - it would be right to bring down the government. There is no need for extensions to beautiful schools, but for example an extraordinary plan of recruitment of ATA staff and care workers, maintenance and administrative secretariats is needed. It is necessary to stabilize the precarious and hire the necessary staff to bring back the management of important services (I am thinking of the custody of schools, the care of children, the cleaning and maintenance of schools) within internal staff, in order to improve the quality of services, reduce costs and give job and salary certainty. We would also have found real resources for maintenance and for implementing a school building plan. It is true that the government has already allocated funds, but it is clear to everyone that, starting from the lack of transparency in mapping, we are trying to invest in some schools and not others. There is an urgent need for anti-seismic and fire safety (I would like to remind you that the certification requirement has been extended for one year) and asbestos clean-up, as well as for the promotion of safety measures in schools in the medium to long term. From the government came only announcements on resources, but not a real plan that can allow full and real use of resources. Meanwhile, school building is an emergency. We would have done a social justice operation with the presentation of a multi-annual recruitment plan for precarious persons, all: those who have attended the special enabling pathways (PAS), the active training courses (TFAs), those of the run-down graduations (GAEs), those of the merit graduations, the AGEs of childhood, the first, second and third bands; we would have done so for all those who have been teaching for at least thirty-six months, as the Court of Justice of the European Union has indicated, trying to repair the damage that Moratti and Gelmini ministers have produced and not causing others; we would have done a real contest, to give certainties to the many young people who are preparing to do the teachers. We would have presented a five-year plan for the opening of 500 children's schools from three to six years old, perhaps with the introduction of compulsory schooling at least three years old. As we all know, early life education is of incredible importance for preventing dispersal and leaving school. We would have allocated resources to the children's schools of the local authorities, to employ staff and not just those of support, but all the teachers necessary to guarantee the right of access to all children and girls in public schools. We would have used the funds for private schools to hire teachers, including those supporting the state school, so as to guarantee access to everyone and leave free choice without burden for the state (as the Constitution establishes) for those who prefer private ones. We would have presented an extraordinary recruitment plan for researchers and professors of the university and public research who are in great difficulty, to remove the turnover block, thus ensuring a better didactic offer and quality of research. Moreover, we would not have set up, perhaps lightly, a new university without the necessary additional resources, but using the same funds for university and public research. In recent years the cuts in research have been heavy (30 million euros have just been cut for university research calls) and there are many precarious researchers waiting for stabilisation. You have failed even to reject the amendments identical to a law you signed pending the best reform; moreover, as was explained yesterday by more authoritative interventions, it is clear that public research is not your priority. In the decree-law in question, concerning appeals to the adequacy of the matter, a strange article appeared on the ISEE of households with members with disabilities; it is in the fact of transposing the decision of the Council of State intervened to heal wrong choices. However, I wonder how it was possible to deal with such an important subject without involving the referral committees and without a full discussion that could completely remedy the still open issues related to disability. Also this time you show that you have no respect for Parliament, not only the Senate, which improperly announced that you have closed, but even the House, parliamentary democracy, confirming already in these passages the authoritarian and oligarchical sign of your constitutional reform. The one in office is a Parliament that legislates only by decree of urgency and confidence, even when it is not necessary, as in this case. To tell the truth, we would have expected an intervention by the President of the Senate to protect the role of the Senate and the legislative function. The number of amendments tabled by majority and oppositions is not such as to make comparison impossible, so this vote of confidence is incomprehensible, unless the problem is all in the majority. We are beginning to have some suspicions: by reading amendments and agendas we have a vague feeling that trust has been placed because you do not trust your majority, you are concerned about the majority's opposition. In this regard too, we understand the difficulties: while the Government continues to announce the magnificence of good school, after less than a year the contradictions, the problems have all exploded. In schools there is a bad climate, the culture of suspicion, little collaboration, little sense of collective work. Teachers, starting from new recruits (to whom you have not given anything, recruitment was an obligation imposed by Europe and a right), are in full competition for the bonus, to please the school manager; bad idea of evaluation committees. Fortunately in the country there are many citizens and many citizens engaged precisely these days to collect signatures for the referendums to repeal important parts of your "good school". It is a great mobilization, which sees together parents, teachers, pupils and many, many citizens who will try to rebuild a public state school, open, secular, democratic, in coherence with republican and constitutional values. I confirm the obviously negative vote of the Italian Left, not only on trust, but also on the decree-law. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u33	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the decree-law before us dealt with two specific issues in the original text: the completion of the beautiful schools programme, which requires an extension of the time limits, and the stabilisation of the Science Institute Gran Sasso Experimental PhD School. A number of other issues in the world of school have emerged in the Commission since the adoption of Law No 107 last year; these were raised by the presentation of various amendments which were specific to problems. The Commission then examined some of the government's amendments, which intended to bring forward the times of Law No 107 in order to prevent the beginning of the next school year from happening with serious difficulties caused by open issues. I would remind you of the various stages, in order to point out that the 7th Commission has worked intensively and seriously. The decree-law to our attention confirms the will of the Government, fully shared by the People's Area Group, to consider the school a fundamental sector on which to invest for the future of our young people and for the future of our country, engaging financial resources to address the main, long-standing issues, from the stabilization of the precarious teachers of the AGE ranking and suitable for the contest 2012, to the new competition, to the school building, to the updating and evaluation of the staff, to the alternation of school-work, to mention only the most important topics addressed by law no. 107 of 2015. I would point out, then, other issues that remain open, raised also in some interventions of yesterday's day and discussed in the Commission, such as the posting, limited to the current school year, of teachers at the regional and provincial school offices, made necessary by the shortage of staff; or the payment of the cost for the management of the conservatory headquarters buildings no longer borne by the Provinces, as a result of the Delrio law; then again, the competition for school managers (only in Veneto the next school year 200 institutes will be without manager and will have to resort to regency); the stabilisation of the ATA staff. The complexity of the issues and their intersection with other general issues force gradual adoption of the necessary measures. This decree-law, replaced by the overall amendment of the Government on the topics analysed and voted on in the Commission, is incorporated in this perspective. The completion of the "beautiful schools" programme could not continue without an expansion of the time frame compared to the current deadline, which had already passed, of 31 March. The extension until the date of 30 November, with the additional allocation of 64 million euros, allows to expand and complete the many interventions (over 17,000) to which the start has been given, with positive repercussions, as well as on the quality and safety of the buildings, also on the employment of the staff already operating in the field of school services. A fundamental intervention is, then, the stabilisation and recognition of the international doctoral school Gran Sasso Science Institute, initiated following the great calamity of the Abruzzo earthquake to allow a faster recovery of the territory of this region. For this Institute, our Group has tabled an amendment to the Commission which has been transformed into an agenda, which commits the Government to finding additional resources. We value positively the issues included in the amendments of the Government, which address other issues raised by various Groups with their own amendments and agendas, such as the measures for the recruitment of staff for the school year 2016-2017, the contribution to equal schools that receive children with disabilities, the provisions to allow teachers who carry out short supplement services to be paid with timeliness and regularity, the fund to continue with the collaboration with the staff of the administrative offices, the increase of the compensation to teachers engaged in the competition for teachers. In the debate I paid particular attention to the issue of equal schools which are experiencing a situation of great economic difficulty, which has already led to the closure of various sections with the impossibility of guaranteeing service in some municipalities, especially those of minor size. The forecasts inserted recently by Law 107, with the law of stability 2016 and with this provision go in the right direction, but they are too modest forecasts, not able to guarantee the continuation of the activity of these schools, that although they are private they carry out a public service, controlled by the State with the recognition of the condition of peer schools. The time has now come to give full implementation to Law No 62 of 2000, taking note of a widespread and consolidated situation: these schools have begun to live the current dramatic situation with the decrease of religious personnel, now disappeared everywhere. Following this, the management is guaranteed by parents' associations that have on their side the great resource of volunteering, but not able to guarantee the sustainability of the budgets. They deserve all our respect and support, not the accusations and criticisms I heard in this House during the debate. I therefore announce the favorable vote of the People's Area Group to the bill at our examination with the pressing invitation to the Government to take charge of the latter problem raised. I should like to conclude by saying: why is the vote of confidence also used on this occasion, on a measure which is of interest to the school? The 7th Commission has spoken with the Government - woe if not - both to deepen the two themes initially present in the decree and to broaden the field of action by addressing other issues that afflict the world of school. It is not up to me to defend the Commission's work, I am only doing it on behalf of my Group, but I would say that we have all worked with a cooperative spirit and with willingness to compare and that we could safely choose the path of the normal parliamentary process instead of putting the question of trust. [[Applause from the Group (AP) (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u36	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, today we find ourselves in an explanation of vote on the trust placed on a decree-law concerning school. In July 2015 we thought we had already seen the worst, because a government that brings home a shameful reform of the school with a blow of confidence cannot be seen in a civil and democratic country. We thought we had exhausted our anger and our pain at that time; and instead we still find ourselves today with a blow of confidence with which we bring home a heterogeneous measure by subject, and which saw the grafting of changes by the rapporteur and the Government with amendments relating to matters completely unrelated to the decree itself. So much so that - you hear, you hear - our former president of the Republic of Naples, perhaps in a moment of particular mental and intellectual energy [[Comments from the PD Group]] , he noticed this and politely pointed out the problem to the government, asking for explanations. Mr Centinario rightly wonders where the government is. The Undersecretary D'Onghia is present, whom we thank for the constant presence, but, paraphrasing a famous film by Fellini, I wonder: the Minister where is she? This decree contains a lot of good school because it was "shackled" just to stick the "pieces" to a reform that we knew would produce the negative effects it is producing. Let's start with the teachers with the suitcase. One of our concerns was that the reform would create a whole class of teachers with a suitcase, perhaps already aged and with families who reside far from where they would go to work. When we expressed this concern, shared by the world of the school, the government did not want to listen to the world of the school and did not want to listen to us and went on with its magnificent plan of extraordinary recruitment that produced, precisely, a situation for which there are teachers who from Trapani must take the plane to go to work in Modena, in the staff of the upgrade, therefore to wander like ghosts inside the schools. Well, here you want to put the corrective, you go by derogation and you allow to ask for the provisional allocation. This is in spite of a whole category of teachers who did not participate in phase B of the magnificent plan of extraordinary hirings and decided to stay at home, in the hope of then getting a chair. And what, then, is created to try to remedy it? Further conflict and further litigation. As if this reform had not already generated enough conflict between teachers and litigation. Bravo! Give it up to the government. Then we have the teachers of the graduations at the school of childhood, the ones that the good school had forgotten. Here they come back. And I don't use my words here. To talk about this shameful amendment, I use the words of the president of the Committee for the Protection of Children, Alessandra Michielotto, who explains how every role that will be taken away from the AGE, which did not have the possibility of interregionality, granted instead to about 1700 teachers (against 23,000 who fall within the AGE for children), will see the urgent appeal to the judge of the job; and the principle of anti-constitutionality for discrimination between teachers who have equality of qualifications will be raised. So, we're facing a nice and good abuse, and the government will have to account for it. Therefore, other conflicts, other discrimination and other disputes. And this is the enlightened government we have in this country at this time. Then we have the bonus of 1,000 euros per disabled student for private and equal school. I find this operation shameful, because we use a drama that many families live with their needs, to drain further funding from state schools to private and equal schools, when public school support is still a chimera. In the public school, the problems of supporting children with disabilities have not been solved. We still have a lot of staffing problems with regard to training and skills. And there are still problems to help these children in the simplest operations, such as going to a toilet. For us all the disability must be supported: that in private and equal schools, but also, and above all, that in public school. Therefore, discrimination between disabled students should not be created. Instead, by doing so, giving additional resources to private and equal schools is created. Renzi then said that the "supplentite" was cured. Wow, how we treated her! In fact, in this decree we have tabled an amendment for short additions. As a matter of fact, we regulate the short, current and future supplements, but we do not bother to heal the previous and pay the salary to those alternates who are still waiting to be paid. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not only have we not treated the alternates, citizens, but we have not even paid the alternates yet. I come to the modification of the new ISEE, which testifies precisely to the arrogance and incompetence of this Government that, with an act of parliamentary aggression, inserts in this decree an amendment that touches a complex and articulated matter, which cannot be exhausted in a change foreign to the matter of the decree. This amendment aims to transpose the various decisions of the Council of State on the exclusion from the ISEE calculation of invalidity pensions, accompanying allowance and any other pension related to serious disability. Once again I will use words not mine, but of the President of the National Movement disabled, according to which this government amendment not only worsens the conditions for disabled people, but also creates discrimination within families that could benefit from all the measures contained, according to the requirements of the ISEE model. So there is another discrimination and there will be other conflicts and other disputes. Bravissimi: another applause for the government! It is not over: in the original provision there is a forecast that represents the apotheosis of blindness, lack of vision and strategy, of arrogance and presumption, which will cause this government to crash, which will sink into the polls. The government not only no longer listens to Parliament, the world of school and culture, but does not listen to Raffaele Cantone, who told Parliament and the Government on April 20: enough with the procedures for extending contracts for cleaning in schools, because they produce unvirtuous dynamics. This is explained by the Competition and Market Authority, with a resolution that fined four cooperatives, of which two red cooperatives - the Consorzio Servizi and Manutencoop - the first of which was also involved in Mafia capital. These four cooperatives, according to the Antitrust Authority, had created a restrictive understanding and had split - heard, citizens! ‐ €1 billion and €500 million of public money, with the play of extended cleaning contracts in schools. We have proposed a bill to re-internalise these services, to re-establish the staff of auxiliary staff and to exit from the ranks of the extensions, but the Government has not listened to Parliament and has not even listened to Dr. Cantone. For all these reasons, the 5 Star Movement will vote against the confidence of the Government and it also shows its opposition to the measure under consideration, because, in addition to the shames contained in it, it is shameful that today, more than three years after the beginning of the legislature, we are asking loudly in this Assembly to deal with universities and research in a serious way, with a vision and a strategy that are certainly not those contained in the measure under consideration, in which a new university is established by decree and a model that, if it passes, will radically change our free and ethical research, as we know it today. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u39	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I shall begin my explanation of vote by thanking the President of the 7th Commission, Senator Marcucci, who is always trying to get the Commission to work through the examination of the amendments and the debate. I say it with the utmost respect: I am close to him humanly. We have seen what has happened: work begins, the government's amendment arrives, the rapporteur intervenes, the sub-amendments are presented and the deadlines for their presentation are set. I say this to this House because we are parliamentarians and we are working in this House. Well, after working and debating, after voting and seeking agreement in the Commission on some issues, after trying to build something good - I say that it has been sought - because then we know what comes out with the vote of confidence - and although for three times the sub-amendments have been presented and three times the relevant terms have been established, the offices have worked and we have all worked out, yesterday the President emeritus, senator for life Giorgio Napolitano, and, besides dictating the government's line, in the very political intervention he has carried out - and on this too we would have to ask for clarification from the majority - he told us that the question of trust would be raised. So we who were wondering whether we would discuss or vote on the amendments and if we would have the opportunity to speak, yesterday we found out that the Minister for Reforms, after doing the usual joke, would have put confidence in the measure. So, once again, trust has been placed. I would like to remind the House that this is the fifty-fourth confidence that the government places. Even if we had voted for the confidence in this decree-law yesterday, as from the calendar of parliamentary work, there would have been on the same day the rainbow trust in the House and that on the decree-law on the school in the Senate: two trusts on the same day placed by a government that evidently struggles to keep the pieces together. I wonder why the President of the Commission, an authoritative member of the majority, has the Members of the Commission working, as is the case in all the Commissions of course: we work, we build a text and we try to do something, then we put our trust in it and everything is cancelled. It is true that this branch of Parliament would have been better to close it, rather than transform it into what will come out with the constitutional reform that has led this majority, even there, by majority blows, alone, with 30% of the country's votes. In the country the Senate is already closed, indeed not closed but built in that way ruffled and messy (exactly as happens in the world of school), but we will see - as some colleagues in this House recalled - the result of the October referendum. Having said that, of course it is right to close it; The House of Deputies should also be closed in the physiognomy that clearly characterizes this Government. There is only the Government, a Government that - I take the opportunity to remind you once again - has not been elected, with a President of the Council who has been appointed and never elected. A government that is based on votes against the left that governs this country, in a particular way, of course, in the majority of the Senate, because there is another electoral mechanism in the House. All this only creates great confusion. Once again the Commissions are working and then in this House we are forced, as will happen today, to say yes or no. Why is it so or not? Because one does not enter into the substance of the measures, having to say yes or no: everything is pre-established. Now I do not want to dwell on what my colleagues have already said, which in some cases have completely different political positions. We have different positions. For example, we voted in favour of helping families with disabilities and equal schools when we were able to vote on the amendment in the Commission. Of course, we believe that it is right to do so. Similarly, we have tabled amendments of a different nature. I will touch a few points of the decree-law only to remember what it is: just a patch of what was the good school, of that failure announced, before in Parliament, by parents, pupils, trade unions and teachers. We spoke before the alternates, of those who were forced to choose whether to move from the South (maybe families with children), to the North for three years; now we say instead you did it, but it doesn't matter, because you could do the same. The protests were many, as well as the appeals: there was talk of the AGE, of this contest that was made in a ruffled way; now it will be inserted in comb again the contest of 2012. I do not want to enter into the technicalities of the decree-law that this House should have faced and that we should have faced with colleagues through the voting tool, because here we are talking about school, families and research. This measure was born, among other things, with two great objectives: one was related to the CONSIP competition for cleaning services in schools, but I don't want to say anything, because I should read what he said in this sense canton. The latter made calls on contracts, and then: either canton always holds or canton never holds. Of course there is superficiality, there is nothing else. It's just a superficial government that doesn't deal with issues. It is so superficial that Mr Giannini is not here today. It is not that there are often measures on the school; obviously the Minister has judged this measure for what it is: only "stuff" that goes to cushion so many failures of before. The second objective was related to the Gran Sasso Science Institute. Yesterday, a researcher, the Senator for Life Cattaneo, spoke about this, and I believe that she was clear in her statements: we are reduced, ladies and gentlemen, to turning the amendments into agendas and glorifying ourselves with these agendas, because if there is not in the maxi amendment of the Government what the Chief Supreme Renzi, Abuse Premier, decides, then it is not okay, we do not even talk about it. We're at these levels. But again, there is one topic that colleagues have not previously touched on (perhaps they have forgotten): the 500 euros. Let's vote. The bonus now goes along with the election date. I don't care when the 500 euros are taken. We vote and then to the Government, to the abusive Premier, comes a great idea: the word bonus. We associate it: bonus -elections, election- bonus. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We don't care if this bonus really serves. But culture is not done by giving money in the hands of guys who may spend it in a discotheque (nothing, of course, against discotheques), it is done by setting up a cultural initiative. That's how you do it. How the good school bonus was given - do you remember that? - teachers and, however, because for teachers' votes it is no longer 40% of Europeans' time, with 56% of voters - for what colleagues Centinario, Montevecchi and Petraglia have said - the students were also thought of. You see, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I quote people, some close to me, others politically distant from my group: is it possible that things are being done that are not good for anyone at all? Don't you stop to wonder why? The members of the government do so well that they do not come to ask you what you think of the majority; they force you to pass under the benches of the Presidency to say yes, because, if you could say what you think, I am sure you would be light years away from these measures. On the ISEE, for example, do you want nothing to be said in this House? We know what it is, it is not necessary to have administered in the municipalities. They treat parliamentarians as people who sit here randomly, and that is also not acceptable at all. In short, Mr President, this has been a "tampon" measure of many mistakes made previously, which the trust placed on the draft good school law has prevented us, as well as you, my colleagues in the majority, from improving. I would like to add that it is not enough to say in the first settlement speech - the first of the 54 trusts requested by the abusive Premier - that we will put EUR 3.7 billion for school buildings, because I believe that all Members of Parliament who work on the territory as this House have the right to know how, where and how much this money has been spent. Honestly, we continue to talk here about public resources that are being invested, but it is not enough for us to get someone up from the benches of the government - neither the President of the Council nor the Minister is present, some Undersecretary will do so - to say that this money is spent. We ask where, how, when, why? We want transparency: why are there many interventions in Tuscany and few in Veneto? Why do they make so many in Puglia and few in Lombardy, or maybe vice versa, of course? Will we or will we not have the right to know whether these interventions are being carried out? No, we don't have the right, and I'll explain why (you should ask, colleagues of the majority, before we oppose): because nothing is done. This is the Government of the ads, and also this decree-law contains all ads that serve to buffer the mistakes made previously. Once again, by placing trust, you have prevented us, who would like to make our contribution to the country, from improving this measure, as far as possible. The judgment of the Forza Italia Group in this regard is obviously negative. There is no confidence in a government that is so bad for this country, that increases public spending, because in these pursuits, in this decree-law, apart from the bonuses associated with the elections, public spending increases. Our judgment - I repeat - is negative and therefore I announce the contrary vote of Forza Italia on the confidence to this abusive Government [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u42	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, authoritative colleagues, representatives of the Government, in fact I believe that the measure we are about to vote on is a further confirmation of the Government's attention to school, research, education and culture in general. The numbers of these two years of government are clear: finally the reversal of trend, finally the centrality, in the perspective of considering, precisely, education and culture as the real moment of turning and relaunching for a country system that believes in itself. We have done so, this government is doing it with additional funds and deep reforms, with great attention and great sensitivity. Urgent provisions on the functionality of the school system and research: this is the theme of this decree-law, which came from the Government. I will not go into the details, as they have been dealt with in the debate and well explained, in particular by the rapporteur. The decree-law came to the Commission, in particular with two questions: the so-called "beautiful schools," and we would miss that we did not feel the moral and political duty to continue that activity; and that of the Gran Sasso Science Institute (also important the university transformation of this institution). But within the debate an important issue has been underestimated, perhaps blinded by the story and the request for a vote of confidence by the Government, I believe due in particular to the concerns about the times of conversion of this decree-law. Parliament's work has been significant on this measure. It came to the Commission with these two questions proposed by the Government, and I would particularly like to thank the Undersecretary D'Onghia who, during her work in the Commission and in the Chamber, guaranteed the presence and the relationship with the Government: her commitment must be underlined. The debate in the Commission, the presentation of the amendments, the solutions indicated and identified, obviously always within the themes and therefore with a proper subject, have led to a measure that is much richer, substantial and stronger than what has been sent to us. I therefore applaud the fact that the 7th Commission, its Commissioners, the intercourse they have had during these weeks of intensive work, discussing specific issues, amendments and voting on them. Of course, the Government has asked for confidence in this measure, but it must also be acknowledged that it has tabled a large amendment which is exactly the result of the parliamentary dialectic that took place within the Commission, and it has respected exactly the votes that have taken place in the Commission: something important that I think is worth stressing. If it was necessary to increase the fees of the competition commissioners, the Commission felt that it had to do so and voted on it; if it was important - in our opinion - to proceed towards the absorption of competitions through the interregional mode, we did so with an amendment; if it was important - in our opinion - to give funds to equal schools specifically targeted at pupils with disabilities, we found the funds and we did it with determination and pride. And again, if it were appropriate - I believe it was - to extend this possibility to all of us, including non-EU citizens with a regular residence permit, to the digital card of 500 euros for the eighteen-year-olds, we did so in the Commission; if it was important to address the issue of the ISEE, which is urgent also following recent judgments, we have done it with great determination, with a desire for comparison, but also with the continuous research aimed at resolving important issues in the interests of our country. In the parliamentary debate, the issue of Human Technopole and the major research project in the former Expo area emerged, not in fact too much related to the measure. I believe that this is an important issue on which it is right for Parliament to confront itself; the Commission is the right forum and is available to do so. Senator Cattaneo, presenting her agenda, spoke of broader and more relevant issues that affect the overall organization of research in our country. I therefore await, as a natural consequence of this intervention, Senator Cattaneo's proposal for a draft law which I, together with the other proposals which the Commissioners of the 7th The Commission has put forward a proposal on this subject, and I shall soon be incardinating because I believe that the time for serious discussion is ripe. But we must also take note of the situations; we must take note of the important and important - I would call them this - recent appropriations, through the CIPE, which this Government has decided on research. We must take note of the revitalisation of the debate on research as a motor of development for our country; we must also note that thanks to this Government finally Italy has returned to talk about research in a consistent and very concrete way. Dear colleagues, we in the Democratic Party continue to be proud to vote in favour of measures that help our country's school, culture, education, university and research. And we'll keep doing it. We are doing this today, expressing our vote of confidence, and we are also thanking the Members of Parliament for their work within the Commission and all the groups for their attention; and we are also thanking the Government for their attention to this area. A different Italy has left. We continue to work to improve it, and that is why we shall vote: yes. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]] 11.11 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u43	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u44	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 42 of 29 March 2016 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Olivero, Pinotti, Centinario, Gasparri, Tronti, Manconi, Amati, Quagliariello and Marton. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Bernini is drawn by lot). I invite Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Bernini. DI GIORGI, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Auricchio Barani, Bencini, Bertuzzi, White, Biancononi, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Broglia, Compagnone, Conti, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Anna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biara, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, D'Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Falanga, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Fevero, Fedolicino, Di Biara, Filippini Senators say no: Alicata, Amidei, Aracri, Arrigoni, Augello Barozzino, Bellot, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Blundo, Bocca, Boccardi, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella Calderoli, Campanella, Cappelletti, Carraro, Castaldi, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagna, Consiglio, Cotti, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Siano, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Fazzone, Floris Gaetti, Galimberti, Gasparri, Giarrusso, Gibiino, Giro, Giro, Girotto Lezzi, Liuzzi Mandelli, Mangili, Marin, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Mastrangeli, Mauro Mario Walter, Messina, Mineo, Minéolini, Minzolini, Molini, Molini, Molinafini, Molini, Molinafini, Molini, Teveri, Teveri, Tavelli, Tavelli, Tavoli, Tangoli, Tangoli, Tangoli, Tangoli, Tangli, Tangoli, Tangoli, Tangoli, Tangoli The senators are abstaining: Azollini.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u45	I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900, entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 42 of 29 March 2016 on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 260 Senators voting 259 Majority 130 Favorable 168 Contrars 90 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 42.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u46	We greet the mayor of Biella and the students of the Institute of Higher Education Leonardo Da Vinci-Galileo Galilei of Gioia del Colle, in the province of Bari, who are following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u49	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, before moving on to the next item on the agenda, I wanted to propose to the House that the second item be reversed with the third item and, therefore, that the measure on the establishment of the national network system for the protection of the environment and the regulation of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research be examined. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you don't make any more comments...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u52	DIVINE (LN-Aut). I am opposed to this proposal to reverse the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u53	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to reverse the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u54	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u55	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, I'll take the session off.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-625.ana.u56	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.10 a.m.
