ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 4 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u4	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.34 a.m. and resumed at 9.56 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u9	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I renew my request for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.57 a.m. and resumed at 10.17 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u11	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u14	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I renew your request for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u15	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u16	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u17	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 10.19).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u18	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 1954. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Cappelletti has the floor to illustrate the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u19	Madam President, I think that the reason why we have tabled this request for a statement of urgency is clear to everyone: corruption is today the real emergency in our country. I don't want to make it easy to demagogy. [[Comments from the PD Group]] It is easy to say that there is an arrest and a remand to trial a day, or a new report of crime concerning the corruption of an officer, who goes up to the honors of the news. The point is another: does Parliament want to tackle effectively and effectively the problem of corruption in our country or not? We must discuss this and we must vote on this shortly. Of course, we could put our heads under the earth like ostriches and pretend that there is no problem of corruption in Italy and that what is done is enough, knowing very well that it is not true. We could continue to talk about interceptions, because if we put the gag to the press the problem of corruption disappears, because even the little free press in our country would not talk about it anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Cardinals]] Madam President, I am sorry that President Grasso is not present at the moment, because probably no one in this House is aware that Parliament has done little or nothing to combat the phenomenon of corruption in our country. President Grasso knows very well, because he is the first signatory to a bill containing a package of rules to combat corruption in our country. This measure could have been really effective, but it was approved after a thousand four hundred days, which was necessary to dismantle it step by step. The Senate Act 19, signed virtually by all the Senators of the Democratic Party, was in fact orphaned and for years was urged in the Commission justice only by the 5 Star Movement. When I raised my hand in the Commission, President Palma already knew that I wanted to ask for the floor to request that the so-called anti-corruption package be included on the agenda. However, this bill was not included on the agenda until it was dismantled with the reform of Article 416-b of the penal code (which reduced the duration of penalties for political-mafia electoral exchange by 40%), the reform of the fake in the budget and the repeal of the so-called infiltrated agent, already used for other types of investigations. Today that law bears the name of the president of the Senate and is an alibi for the majority parties to say that they did something. I - it is my opinion - would take my name away, just to avoid being exploited from this point of view. That is the position on television: we have carried on with reforms. No, 1,400 days were needed to dismantle those reforms. Just make a comparison between the approved law and the draft law of the Democratic Party - I am not talking about that of the 5 Star Movement - and you will find that there is no will in this Parliament to tackle the problem of corruption with effective tools. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I mean, it was a missed opportunity. Yet we are talking about the problem of corruption, which is extremely serious. It's a problem that takes away tens of billions every year. The Financial Guard's annual reports are merciless. Suffice it to say that one third of the controlled public contracts were unlawfully awarded, not to mention the renewal of the motorway concessions without public tender, as in the case of the A4 Padua-Brescia, which was not put to tender to allow the private concessionaire to sell the concessionaire and make capital gains for billions that are public money transferred to private individuals. Maybe in a few years we'll know the real reasons for this operation. The problem is not just economic. Corruption takes away jobs and without corruption the mafia would not be so strong. It is not so much the mafia that feeds corruption; it is corruption that creates an ideal environment for the development of organized crime in our country. With regard to the content of the draft law, which we are asking for to be dealt with as a matter of urgency, I think we should pay particular attention to these points. First of all, "a person convicted of corruption should be excluded from the public works business forever." Secondly, "you who have corrupted or concushed someone, do me the courtesy of not setting foot in public procurement anymore." Moreover, "the DASPO is needed for politicians who betray the confidence of citizens." "The central point is to ensure that those convicted no longer return to public affairs." And again, but I could continue - "they make DASPO to fans, the DASPO must be done to politicians who take bribes: never again!" [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I imagine someone has surely understood that these are not my sentences, but by Matteo Renzi, spoken during his speech in Milan, Forlì and even in the margins of the G7 in Luxembourg. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The DASPO, for those who do not know, is a legal measure that allows the quaestor to prohibit, to the fan considered dangerous, access to sporting events. According to Renzi, it should be ensured that a condemned person for corruption is forever removed from public affairs, a perpetual ban, in short. "Never again" declared the Premier. Even, according to Renzi, politicians already investigated for taking bribes should be further investigated for high treason to the state for violating the mandate on which they swore. These are words to be translated into law. But when Renzi is involved, one thing is to say and one thing is to do. Anyway, being a good idea, we made it ours. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the Commission Justice Democratic Party and majority have already rejected an amendment that provided for bans from public offices and the inability to contract with public administration. This, of course, in the event of a conviction for corruption offences. It was an amendment that would seriously ban and remove all those convicted of crimes of concussion, corruption and sin. The amendment proposed the words and intentions of the President of the Council. To permanently remove thieves from the public administration so as not to allow any more opportunity to repeat the same crime, which happens every day. Well, that is the same amendment that we tabled in the form of a bill. Canton has made a similar proposal, as summarized: take a bribe, lose the contract. And we add: and with the public administration you no longer work there. The Supreme Council of the judiciary has also taken the same position. On the subject of corruption, he said: The sanctioning plan should rethink the entire system of ancillary penalties, providing as mandatory the perpetual prohibition for every corruption case. In conclusion, we are here to call for urgent action to be taken by the Premier on a number of occasions, on unified and Eurovision networks, desired by the magistrates, by those who fight corruption and by 60 million honest citizens. But if the proposal does not find acceptance, let me suggest another, just as democratic, solution in order to heal Italy from corruption: let us return to the polls and give the citizens the opportunity to clean up this Parliament, which is obviously not showing itself to clean up! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u22	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, we do not want to give a liquidatorial answer to this request, nor do we want to limit ourselves to denouncing its instrumental nature. On the other hand, we want to give an answer of merit, able to speak with a challenge that is before us, that must be faced and won. Corruption is the problem of our country's problems. Denying or minimizing hurts our citizens, the development and democracy of our society. It's an open challenge. With intellectual honesty, however, no one can deny that in this legislature a work has never been done before. Never, in the Italian Parliament, had laws, measures and instruments been adopted in the fight against mafias and corruption, which today correspond, as never before, to two different sides of the same coin. Why this, Madam President? I remind my colleagues that never, in our country, had an agency like ANAC been built, with real powers. It is now adjusting to have a powerful structure capable of carrying out all the functions that Parliament and the Government have assigned to it. Madam President, for years we have been fighting for a fake law in the budget. He's here now. And so it is on the car money laundering. I remind my colleagues that right here in the Senate, in the law of procurement reform, we have included in the delegation to the Government of measures that go precisely in the direction of pushing away forever companies that pay the lace and participate in corruption. And so for public officials who play in the procurement system using corruption. Dear colleagues - and here I address my colleagues from the 5 Star Movement who are making this proposal - I recall that in May 2015, almost a year ago, from here in the Senate, an increase in the penalties in the fight against unprecedented corruption started. Today, thanks to that increase in punishment, those who use corruption can no longer resort to the escamotage of the prescription. But that is not enough, ladies and gentlemen. We have also included a rule that prevents the use of a plea bargain for those who bribe. Before, in fact, this was the shortcut. In a year or a year and a half the criminal problems were solved and the malt was enjoyed; now, in order to enter the settlement, that malt must be returned. This is already the law. That is also the case, Madam President, with regard to compensation. Anyone who corrupts will have to compensate to such a high extent that he even takes away the habit of thinking about the instrument of corruption. But it's not enough. That is why I am addressing my colleagues directly. I would remind you that we have two measures in the process of being adopted, two measures which one branch of Parliament has already taken. I am referring to the reform of the criminal trial, where rules are inserted that affect corruption. We have introduced an increase in the sentence - which is unthinkable, which has divided us and which has also torn Parliament's work - with regard to Article 416-b, which is the most odious crime, because it refers to the political-electoral exchange. Colleagues, we also have the opportunity to make another choice, already in progress and already launched by the House, which has been approved in the single anti-mafia text, which is at the evaluation of the Senate Justice Commission: the possibility of using an instrument, which Mr Cappelletti has not indicated, which is perhaps the most powerful of all and which experts in the fight against the Mafia know well: the measure of patrimonial and personal prevention to be applied to corruption offences. It is a powerful and delicate tool for a real fight against corruption, because it is preventive and can strike without the classic instrument of criminal type obtaining immediate and fast results, devastating for those who still think to use corruption. Together with this instrument, ladies and gentlemen, we must also include the prescription measure, already approved by the House, as you know, and now before the Justice Commission, in the unified text presented by the rapporteurs, Mr Casson and Mr Cucca. Here too, we are ready to give a breakthrough to the issue of the prescription, with regard specifically to the fight against corruption and, in general, to all the crimes in our country. We want to do more, we want to resort, as we of the Democratic Party proposed, to the DASPO, to the undercover agent (this rule was inserted in the text Grasso). We are ready, ladies and gentlemen, but the fastest way is not to start a new legislative process. That is why hypocrisy is manifested there and also a contradictory instrument with the idea that we have to speed up the time and deal with this issue, because the House has already approved that they are going in this direction in two texts and the Commission is already at work: there is where to deal with these challenges. Colleagues, this is an open challenge and the PD has decided not to put its head in the sand: you don't put it either. We work together, the challenge is a duty for everyone. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u25	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I didn't mean to speak, but having written books on these subjects trying to deepen some real issues about the problem of corruption in Italy and having listened to the colleague of the 5 Star Movement, I honestly tell you that I came to mind the movie "I miserablei" (taken from the novel by Victor Hugo), and the characters Jean Valjean and Javert, his persecutor, the inflexible inspector who eventually commits suicide. I put myself in the shoes of a viewer of a film of this kind to understand if the tones to be used in our country to represent the fight against corruption must be those that arise from the 5 Star Movement and the situation that is painted. There are, for example, some absolutely false and fraudulent statistics: I recall the data heard in the Commission at the time of Minister Severino and the Monti Government, who saw Italy at the eightieth or ninetieth place in the classification relating to corruption, in short, a disaster. You will recall, ladies and gentlemen of the Justice Commission, that those statistics were based on data from opinion polls (as if we were talking about perceived time). I asked why, since corruption was estimated at tens of tens of billions, in the previous year there had been only 200-300 complaints for crimes of this kind throughout Italy. It was impressive to see some data that said that about half of Italians were corrupt or concussive, the public administration was marching to the core and, if I remember correctly, the amount of corruption per Province amounted to 600 million euros. Imagine our Provinces, for example Isernia, Agrigento, Como, Lecco or Modena: according to those data, in each of the Italian Provinces every year there would have been 600 million euros connected to corruptive phenomena. If it were true, it would mean that we are 50 million corrupt and that not only should we put the corrupt in jail, but also those who should put the corrupt in jail, that is, the police, the police and the Finance Guard: all in prison. Luckily, that's not the case. Corruption is not combated with proclamations; meanwhile, it is contrasted with a work of education to legality - which is very important - already in small things, starting with favors, tasks that are copied at school, as the "Corriere della sera" wrote, from a mentality that considers those who take shortcuts. Then you fight by making the magistrates, the real and serious ones, do their job. For example, in Veneto a magistrate called Nordio, who thinks exactly like me on methods to fight corruption, in a few months has dismantled a corruptive network without waiting for the twenty-one years of the prescription; he has already condemned all those responsible including the politicians who were at the head of that network (doing serious investigations, operating - when he did - arrests not on the basis of investigative hypothesis but of real data), who in a few months have ended up in prison and also dropped by parliamentarians. What Nordio says (in this there is all my disagreement with my colleague Lumia): "Yes, the fight against the mob we do also to the enterprises, we go to the preventive seizures on the basis of suspicions?." Other than Commissioner Javert, we are going on a road that is exactly the reverse of the one indicated not only by Nordio, but by other authoritative magistrates. Perhaps it never occurred to anyone that, as Ostellan wrote, the corruption of the Soviet Union and the socialist systems (which were the most corrupt in the world), was lurking in the fact that to have what a citizen or a company had to have in a transparent or direct way instead 56 administrative steps were needed and the mechanisms were increasingly complicated, so who faced with these difficulties sought shortcuts? It would be different if the relationship with the public administration were clear, clear, with certain times, if one knew who had the right to what in safe times and did not complicate everything, as we are doing everywhere with the multiplication of bureaucratic procedures and controls. Who says the controller isn't as corrupt as the controlled? Who says that the 20 steps a citizen or a company faces are not exactly where corruption is lurking? These statements are not made by Giovanardi, but by a magistrate who has shown in the front line how even with the current legislation you can cut off corruption and in fact did so. One thing is when we refer to concrete cases, another when we make generalizations that involve this coercion to repeat. So, two or three years ago, with the Severino law and other rules, we put back into practice a situation that with those provisions had to be absolutely resolved; today, however, there are loud cries to accentuate other norms: we talk about a limitation to twenty-one or twenty-two years; even thirty years. This is a mechanism for which, (since there is also Jean Valjean and not only the inspector chasing him) if he is arrested today, we have brought the minimums for crimes against the public administration to such high levels that the arrest usually takes place. To give an example, if certain rules are to be adopted, you are thirty years old to determine whether the mayor of Lodi is innocent or guilty. Colleagues, since the sorcerer apprentices always end up hanging from the tree and rope to which they plan to hang others, consider that the more wrong the investigation is from the beginning, the more unjustified the arrest is, the fewer elements there are and the more those who run into these events desperately try to have a trial to prove his innocence; however, the more the original accusations are unfounded and the more the trial goes away, the more it is kept in a drawer, so that it is not shown that the initial accusatory hypothesis was unfounded. I do not go into the substance of the proposals that we will see in the Commission, but I urge the whole of Parliament not to follow the Jacobins, who destroyed revolutionary France (and of course we all know that after the revolutionary phase - alas - a phase of reaction and restoration). It is therefore necessary to fight corruption with a lot of pragmatism, as I said before, first of all by using a great national, educational, cultural instrument, in school and everywhere, and then by defining crime precisely. We will talk about interdictive anti-mafia measures: woe if in the work of prevention you shoot at random, you make people and honest companies fail, then admit later that the suspicion was totally unfounded, as the courts recognize (when you arrive in court), the Council of State (when you arrive in the Council of State) or the Ministry of the Interior (when you arrive in the Ministry of the Interior); but it is too late, because the damage at that time has already been done. We therefore need rules that are effective in combating corruption and, at the same time, do not allow themselves to go to an easy demagogy, which makes us suspect so many times - and unfortunately we have recently had examples in Sicily - that a certain culture of those who organize themselves professionally to deal with anti-mafia and anti-corruption in the end is not cleaner than others, indeed, in many cases it is the one that exploits these issues for its own interests. Mine is merely an invitation to Parliament to be careful and wise when it legislates in these matters. [[Senator Scalia's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u28	D'ANNA (AL-A (MpA)). Madam President, I will make a very short speech to say that the vote of the AL-A Group is against. In here there are always those who want to turn this House into a criminal chamber, where there are the defenders of justice, while all those who do not defend it are paradigmatically potential scoundrels. But I have learned, in my life - alas - a long life, to know many scoundrels who were not moralists; but I have never known a moralist who, under the test of fact, has not turned out to be a scoundrel. [[Applause from Senator Malan]] This emerges from a simple evidence: those who make moralists, interested in the morals of others, lose sight of their own. What should we say, then, here? We should say that it is not by soliciting these propagandistic proposals and made in an extemporaneous way to the Senate, by those who come to make Saint-Just or Robespierre, who help to solve the problem of justice in Italy. In fact, however you think of it - for example, Lumia and I do not think of it in the same way - this is a problem, because, both in civil and in criminal matters, we have trials that last forever. I imagine an entrepreneur, who already has to face the risks of the company, to collect a credit or resolve a dispute it takes even ten or twelve years: this is the impact on the economic aspects. I do not want to talk about the part of criminal justice because we would repeat ourselves, but I just want to focus on the civil part, on how long a dispute between two people lasts. We tried, with the establishment of the settlement, the transaction between the parties, to lighten this load, but unfortunately we did not succeed. Let us stop trying to be moralists here. Here we are legislators and we must tackle the problem organically without presuming to be morally better than others. In the rule of law morale resides in the law and we are all subject to the law and in this context, those who preceded us in these classrooms wanted to modify the procedure by establishing that proof is formed in the debate. We went from the inquisitive rite, where the citizen waited for the graces of the investigating judge to know whether or not he was inquisition, to an institution of greater guarantee for citizens, not for politicians. The guarantee notice informs the defendant that a proceeding has been initiated against him and if the evidence is formed in the debate, in the antithesis between accusation and defence, the warranty notices are such; they are not sentences of guilt, they are not the clava through which a political force can attempt to delegitimize, criminalize and muddle another political force. Otherwise, we'd live in a police state with provocative agents and risk building an Orwellian society. [[Comments of Senator Bottici]] with cameras in the homes of all citizens, who would be subjected every fifteen days to the test of the machine of truth, thus ensuring that nothing escapes the State and that everyone, therefore, has to give up their freedom as a citizen. In conclusion, we can only be opposed because if we love justice we must be attentive to the zealous of justice, to those who use it to support the pneumatic vacuum in their heads, exhibiting the justice and exasperation of the concept of justice as an ontological reason for their presence. No political force can be characterized by a few arguments: a self-respecting political force has its own idea of the state, economy and society. I would like to repeat what Robespierre said to the Marquis of Condorcet in this House, who also contested Robespierre, despite the policy of terror. When she stood in the constituent assembly, she said, near Robespierre: "If you were my husband, I would offer you poisoned tea," Robespierre replied: Madam, if you were my wife, I'd drink it. [[Applause from the AL-A Group (MpA) and Senator Astorre.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u31	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, I asked to speak because after the speeches of the members of the Democratic Party, of A-LA and of Senator Giovanardi, I thought it appropriate, and useful for the whole House, to clarify a couple of points. In the meantime we note that according to the majority, from what is evident from the intervention of Senator Lumia, in fact the proposal of the bill to first signature Cappelletti that wants to extend the so-called DASPO to other hypothesis of crime is not accepted because, always according to Senator Lumia, the majority, Parliament and the Government have already operated sufficiently in the matter of corruption last year with Law No 69, therefore there is no need for further measures to discourage the corruption phenomenon. Moreover, Senator Lumia forgot that Mr Cappelletti had literally quoted the President of the Council's speech when he was chanting the DASPO for the corrupt: this contradiction stands out very clearly on the horizon. We also know very well that the Commission is the place for the theoretical discussion, deepening or approval of these issues, so that we have also made these proposals in the course of the amendment. [[Applause from Senator Cappelletti]] The presentation of an autonomous bill, at the first signature of Senator Cappelletti, became necessary after the approval of Law No 69, in order to put on the table a question that - we repeat - Renzi had placed before all. What are we talking about? We are talking about extending the interdictive measures that are already planned today. If you take the bill n. 1954, in Article 1 you will see a proposal to amend article 317- bis of the penal code, which already today provides that, in the event of a final conviction for certain crimes against the public administration, it will result in the perpetual prohibition from public offices and the perpetual inability to negotiate with the public administration. Our bill simply wants to extend this measure also to cases of conviction for corruption for the exercise of the function. This is Article 318 of the penal code, the maximum penalty of which was increased last year to six years of imprisonment - I remember - precisely thanks to an amendment of the 5 Star Movement, voted by the majority. We also call for this so-called DASPO to be extended to cases of condemnation under Article 319-c of the penal code (induction to give or promise utility), i.e. to cases where the public official induces the giving or promise of the giving of money or other utility for an act of their own office. To us it seems - and we believe it also seems to the Italians - incomprehensible this obstinacy not to extend also to these cases of crime the measure of perpetual ban and of the inability to contract. According to Senator Giovanardi's vision, corruption does not exist and the indices are those "perceived"; he said that one wants to chase moralism, with arguments also supported by Senator D'Anna, who frankly deduced arguments that have nothing to do with the bill we are talking about. We are not talking about prescription, we are not talking about warranty notices, we are not talking about French revolutions or Robespierre. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] Please, let us not pollute the parliamentary debate with considerations that are not relevant, but let us take back the dignity and responsibility of our parliamentary being. We would like to have a clear answer - but I fear that we have already heard it - from the political forces present in this House: do we agree or not to extend the so-called DASPO, in addition to the hypotheses already provided for today by Article 317- bis of the penal code, also to cases of corruption, ex Article 318, and of undue induction to give or promise usefulness, ex Article 319-c of the penal code, also extending it to the person responsible for a public service? This is what the bill proposes; it is useless to broaden the arguments to philosophical or moral questions. Let us put aside any controversial or moralistic intent and ask the House, the parties of the majority and the opposition: do you agree yes or no - and let us let the Italians know - to extend the inability to contract, the incandidability for public functions and the inability to hold public positions, once and for all, even to these cases of corruption? Yes or no? Then the Italians will assess whether they are proposed at Robespierre, whether they are reasonable and necessary proposals or not. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u32	I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, concerning the bill n. 1954, made by Senator Cappelletti. It's not approved. MARTELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The result is obvious. Appreciate the circumstances, I do not think it is necessary to retest them. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] BUCCARELLA (M5S). President, be ashamed! CASTALDI (M5S). Let's put our faces on! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure give the President the opportunity to consider whether there are any conditions that require a counterproof. The President believes that these conditions are not there. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] BUCCARELLA (M5S). Cowards! Mr Paglini (M5S). Shame! AIROLA (M5S). You're afraid to see who votes!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u33	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2299. The rapporteur, Senator Puglisi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the text we are debating today in this House is a decree-law that intervenes in order to improve the functionality of the school system and research and that, thanks also to the contribution and work done by the Commission for Public Education, cultural heritage - whose members I would like to thank, starting with President Marcucci - together with the Government, intervenes positively in various areas. First of all, it contains provisions to ensure the continuation of operations to maintain the decorum of school buildings and to carry out cleaning and auxiliary services in schools. It is 64 million euros for 2016 to ensure the continuation of the plan beautiful schools, which consists of a plan of interventions for the restoration of the decorum and functionality of school buildings, started by the Government in 2014, within the framework of the broader plan for school building, which includes a three-year plan of 3,700 million euros in the three-year period, for safe schools and new schools. The use of former socially useful workers (LSU) within the beautiful schools plan is a story that comes from afar. In 1999, in fact, the State took over from the local authorities in the employment relationship with non-teaching school staff, among which at the time the school workers (for the majority of the former socially useful workers) and, between 2000 and 2001, the State also took over from the service contracts with the companies involved, for an annual expenditure of about 624 million euros. In 2009, the Berlusconi Government launched a plan to reduce school cleaning expenditure, which led to a reduction of about 10%. In 2011, the total amount of purchases was further reduced by an agreement with companies to EUR 390 million per year. Today, some 5,000 schools cover their own cleaning needs and other auxiliary services, such as pupil supervision or access surveillance, exclusively through the use of state-owned school workers. Around 3,600 other schools, on the other hand, purchase their services from companies. In 2013, a limit of expenditure for the purchase of the services in question was introduced, equal to what would be spent to carry out them through exclusive recourse to employees, i.e., given the coverage of about 11,800 places of school collaborator, equal to 300 million euros per year. At the same time, the Council launched a special invitation to tender, which was awarded and activated on 1 January 2014. This invitation to tender, divided into 13 lots (mainly at regional level; in some interregional cases) was awarded everywhere, ending on 31 December 2016, except in Sicily and Campania, where disputes arose (today before the administrative court and, in the case of Campania, before the European Court of Justice) between the interim successful tenderer and the counter-interested. Therefore, in these two Regions the competition was carried out by the Council, but still has not been awarded. Only recently, as communicated by the Council, following the decision of the Council of State of 17 March 2016, has reached a solution of the litigation for the lot relating to Sicily and the conclusion of the contract between the Council and the contracting undertaking is being carried out, with the consequent imminent activation of the convention. Of course, the reduction in the amounts allocated to cleaning services and the savings resulting from the use of the Consip tender could not fail to affect the employment and income continuity of the employees of the enterprises, former LSU, which, although reduced in number over time - from just over 24,000 in 2000 to 18,148 in 2016, located mainly in the South - remained too many to find full employment in contracts with schools for cleaning services. For this reason, with the government agreement of 28 March 2014 promoted by this Government, by the Ministry of Education, University and Research and by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, in the presence of trade unions and representatives of the consortiums awarded Consip contracts, the Government has found a solution for the 18,000 workers, former LSU, training them to provide services for the maintenance of school environments, improving the livability of classes and common environments. The interventions have been included in the extraordinary plan beautiful schools for the maintenance and restoration of functionality and the decoration of public school buildings, which is part of the broader government program dedicated to the improvement of the conditions and the efficiency of the public school building. With the beautiful schools plan, which involved an investment of 450 million euros from 1 July 2014 to 1 April 2016, not only did we give a response to employment, but we managed to realize 15,996 interventions of decoration and maintenance of schools. With this decree is then financed with 3 million euros the stabilization of the Experimental School of International Doctorate Gran Sasso Science Institute (GSSI) that, after the favorable opinion of the ANVUR, becomes permanently university institute of special order. The School, initially activated experimentally by the National Institute of Nuclear Physics in the after-earthquake, was born to relaunch the development of the earthquaked territories of Abruzzo with the reconstitution and strengthening of the capacities of the teaching system, scientific and productive, to create a pole of international excellence, thanks to the valorization of skills and highly specialised structures already existing in the territory, and to promote the attraction of high-level resources mainly in the field of basic sciences. Therefore, thanks to this stabilisation, recruitment of personnel can be carried out. But this measure intervenes on many other points really useful especially at school, after years of cuts, in order to continue to improve the living and working conditions of teachers and students' study. First of all, it contains the necessary allocation to double the fees of the school competition commissioners (which is underway in recent weeks), as promised by the President-in-Office of the Council. It shall also ensure the payment of fixed-term assignments and the short or occasional supplements of teachers within 30 days of the last day of the reference month. Failure to comply with the deadlines, which is not new this year but which unfortunately was chronic, becomes a source of managerial responsibility if the causes of the delay are attributable to the MIUR or MEF staff. The teaching staff and ATA will also be assigned an identification code to facilitate the allocation of salary matches. And again, the 100,000 teachers hired with the extraordinary plan of good school and in general all those of role will be able to ask for for the next school year, by way of derogation from the three-year constraint, temporary interprovincial assignment on the remaining places of law possibly remained after mobility and recruitment in role, but also, for the first time, on staff in fact, thus widening much the opportunity to stay or return to work close to their loved ones. With this measure you do not generate - be clear! - major or minor additions, simply changes the place where the alternate is appointed. This will make it possible to mitigate the effects of the shift of teachers to the North, which in this school year, although they have entered into a role far from home, have been able to remain, thanks to the norm of law no. 107 of 2015, which allowed the permanence on the supplement if obtained before the entry in role. Once again I would like to remind this House that the mobility of teachers from South to North has always been there, because of the different demographic trends in the country that see a school population constantly growing in some regions of the North and declining in the Mezzogiorno. Another much awaited rule, contained in this decree-law, provides for the total absorption, through voluntary interregional mobility, of the merit rankings for the childhood school of the 2012 contest; again, the refinancing of the fund in 2017 for the support of pupils with disabilities who attend peer schools with a state contribution of 1,000 euros per pupil with attending disabilities, for a total of 12.2 million. This - I would like to stress this - is an anti-discrimination rule for students with disabilities, in order to guarantee their families the right to freedom of educational choice. Of the two: we cannot accuse the equal schools of not welcoming students with disabilities and then not guarantee, as other governments have done, the resources to be able to receive them. Another provision on the ISEE is also dedicated to persons with disabilities, which ensures that they are excluded from the calculation of any care, social security or compensation treatment provided by public bodies. Moreover, there is a very important clarification - and expected by university students - as it is finally made clear that companies for the right to study must remove from the same ISEE the scholarships received the previous year from the students capable and deserving. The block of specialization courses for non-medical professions is then resolved, which has prevented thousands of young magisterial graduates (Veterinaries, Dentistors, Pharmacists, Biologists, Chemists, Physicists and Psychologists) from specializing, with the suspension of the norm of law n. 401 of 2000 in the current formulation, waiting for the Ministry of Health to establish the need for it to be able to grant scholarships. Finally, the Government extends the 500 euro card for the cultural consumption of eighteen-year-olds to girls and non-Community boys. Therefore, with an investment of 290 million euros will be all 576,953 eighteen-year-olds residing in our country, of which 24,305 boys and girls from outside the EU, to benefit from it to attend theatrical and cinematographic performances, for the purchase of books as well as for the entrance to museums, exhibitions and cultural events, monuments, galleries, archaeological areas, natural parks and live shows. A measure of equity, civilization and true inclusion, full citizenship for all eighteen-year-olds, which was announced by Matteo Renzi in the aftermath of the Paris massacre in which 93 girls and boys - including our researcher, Valeria Solesin - were killed at the Bataclan while attending a concert. It is an important investment in our identity, because terrorism and fundamentalism are fought with a profound work of integration and great investment in education in our suburbs. It will be with culture, beauty and education that we can really build a Europe of peace. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u37	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, I am in a suspensive position and I ask for the vote, after checking the quorum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should specify as long as you want the debate suspended. MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). For a week, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u38	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak on the question of suspension for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u41	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am in favour of Senator Mauro's request. [[Senator Romano points out that he wants to intervene. Senator Russo points to Senator Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u42	Senator Romano, do you intend to intervene? ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u43	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u46	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to speak on the order of business. It seems to me rather irregular that, although no one raised his hand to ask for the floor, the Presidency... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u47	Senator Martelli, you may have distracted yourself, because your hand was raised, as I was told...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u48	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Senator Martelli, I'm sorry, but you're distracted. MARTELLI (M5S). I don't want to be interrupted... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] It is impossible to continue the surgery. [[Senator Buemi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u49	Senator Buemi, take it easy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u52	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we are opposed to the proposal made by Senator Mario Mauro.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u55	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, the opinion has already been expressed by my colleague and I would therefore like to speak on the order of business. It is not acceptable for senators to accuse you and other colleagues of situations that have not occurred. I have seen Mr Russo raise his hand to ask for the floor and they cannot support the opposite. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buemi, thank you for confirming what had been seen by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u57	I, however, first saw her raise her hand to ask for the floor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u58	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, just to promote the positive climate that I believe is beneficial to everyone, I would like to point out to Mr Martelli that I raised my hand to point out the willingness of Senator Romano to speak. I see Senator Martelli isn't listening to me. I believe that it is very exhausting to create conditions at this time which prevent the work in this House from working. All of us have the advantage and convenience in promoting the maximum sharing of an important measure and, above all, the good relationship between us. Even if he doesn't listen to me, I'm renewing Senator Martelli's advice to pay more attention and vigilance in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u59	We shall now proceed to the vote on the suspensive question, after having verified the quorum previously put forward by Senator Mauro Mario.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u60	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.17 a.m. and resumed at 11.38 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u61	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question of suspension. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u62	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u63	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 2299 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the suspensive question raised by Senator Mauro Mario. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u66	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, when I read the report on the amendments, I saw that the rapporteur's amendment 1.0.700 appeared. As this is a new amendment that we have not examined in the Commission, we are calling for a short suspension of the work to be submitted to it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglisi, do you confirm that you have tabled a new amendment?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u67	Mr President, I withdrew it and was convinced that this withdrawal had been communicated to the Offices. In any case, I confirm its withdrawal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u68	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u69	Mr President, the decree-law which is called for to be converted introduces some necessary and urgent measures in areas covered by the Ministry of Education, University and Research, as already well illustrated by the rapporteur, Senator Puglisi. In particular, the restoration of the decorum and functionality of many schools is ensured thanks to the commitment of the Government, aimed at safeguarding jobs. With the agreement of 8 March 2016 between the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, the MIUR and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the trade unions and representatives of the consortiums awarded Consip contracts, the Government has undertaken to support the extension of the program beautiful schools until the date of 30 November 2016 and, therefore, new schools, safe schools, in short beautiful schools. The Ministry of Education has allocated a further €64 million for this extension, which allows small-scale maintenance, decoration and functional restoration of school buildings. But shouldn't the school be in general and global attention, colleagues? The deadline of 1 April is therefore extended by another seven months thanks to the measures provided for in the decree-law. This allows to keep in service about 18,000 cleaning workers, of which little more than 12,000 ex LSU (socially useful workers) used for small interventions in the school, for cleaning classes, for the supervision of the premises, for the supervision of the pupils and the small maintenance. It is difficult to understand that prompt and urgent action to support the employment of workers in difficulty has found so much hostility, instrumental hostility, as is evident. The same decree-law authorizes the schools of Campania and Sicily, where the Consip race did not start, and the schools of Lazio, where it expires, to continue to entrust, until 31 December, the cleaning and auxiliary services to the firms that have provided them so far. At 31 December, however, the annual extensions of conventions in the other regions where the Council system has taken off also expire. On the question of cleaning I remember that in 2012 the former minister Francesco Profumo decided to give order to the system and to buy the services following a competition Consip. The MIUR holds service contracts of 620 million euros, with companies employing the equivalent of more than 24,000 full-time units, compared to an organic holiday of twice the ATA seats, of 12,000 units. The government's beautiful school program, for a total amount of 450 million euros per year, has planned and implemented a total of 17.815 interventions (an incredible number), some of which are being completed, in as many school complexes throughout the national territory. And these are routine maintenance operations in schools, i.e. painting, repair and replacement of furniture, fixtures, electrical systems, plumbing: everything the school needs. On the basis of the resources available, the activities would have lasted until today and the companies would then have had to lay off the operators engaged in the activities of restoration. With the new funding, the programme will continue and continue until November. During the summer period, the Government said it was willing to accept any requests for an integration fund by way of derogation. As the rapporteur, Ms Puglisi, pointed out, the Government's commitment to guarantee the financial resources necessary for the completion of the beautiful schools programme will restore functionality in Italian schools; it will encourage the well-being of students, teachers and school workers at school. It will, however, be the responsibility of the managers to plan the interventions, in coordination with the Institute Council and the local authorities, and to monitor the implementation of the programme, the efficient conduct of the work, the quality of the maintenance activities, the thorough cleaning of the buildings. Much can be done. Managers and general administrative services (DSGA) will undertake to follow the work, to optimize the service of the LSU, to report any inefficiencies and slowness that can condition the operations of embellishment and renovation of the buildings, which students must find cared for, clean and comfortable all day long. Schools are open all day and, therefore, more than anything else, there is a need for qualified services. This great opportunity must therefore be valued and not wasted for the educating community, for children and children, who must demand and have a hospitable educational service. The efficiency of this service must therefore be closely monitored, within a logic which is not only intended to extend it to provide jobs, but also forms part of a culture of efficiency and result. We add, therefore, a further piece of attention to the framework of a school reform that is also attentive to the support of the world of work. It is by no means a signal to be trivialized and much less to be underestimated in the general system of a necessary and good reform, which is becoming reality and is correctly positioning all its cards. Although it has already been pointed out, I want to reiterate the gradual absorption of the GaEs, the competitions for teachers, the strengthening of the staff, other competitions shortly for school managers, the investment in school safety, the gradual solution to problems such as mobility and the refinancing of disability funds. I mean, the whole picture is coming together again. The structural and chronic problems of the school world are in the process of being resolved and it is really a great satisfaction to live from within this process, to live its positive paths to realize it and to make a contribution to optimize it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tocci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u71	Mr President, I take the floor to express my appreciation for the establishment of the Gran Sasso Science Institute doctoral school. The establishment of a new university in Italy, both in the form of special schools such as the International High School of Advanced Studies (SISSA) in Trieste and the Sant'Anna High School in Pisa, is good news. It will certainly be a worthy institution. It is promoted by the very good scientists of the National Institute of Nuclear Physics, one of the most prestigious of Italian research institutions. The initiative takes place in the generous land of Abruzzo, near the beautiful city of L'Aquila, contributing to its rebirth through the most effective lever, which is investment in knowledge. However, I cannot ignore the anomalies in the method of the measure under consideration. It is curious the institution by decree-law of a new university: it is an urgency that derives from a ministerial default. The Ministry was well aware that the funding of the experiment was running out and there were the appropriate programming tools to make a decision in time with ordinary procedures. Secondly, a new university is being financed by taking away the money from other universities and research institutions: another cut, which is now small, but which could grow tomorrow. It is incredible that the Budget Committee and the Ministry have not made any projections over time, providing for the public finance burden of the measure under consideration. In order to avoid yet another cut, I have tabled amendment 3.4, which aims to finance the new Aquilan university by taking money from the Italian Institute of Technology (ITI), which abounds in resources to the point that it fails to spend the funding it receives and keeps in the bank about 400 million euros, as admitted by the director Cingolani and as demonstrated by the dossier in the proceedings of Senator Elena Cattaneo. Yet, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has expressed its opposition to my amendment, a disconcerting opinion: Article 81 of the Constitution, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance should stick only to considerations on the capacity of chapters, without entering into the substance of policies or - worse still - favour its preferences or its friendships. IIT, in fact, is famously the home coconut in Via Venti Settembre: for many years the director of the Ministry has also been President of the institute, in full conflict of interests. The same discretion led to the custody of the Human Technopole project, funded with 80 million initials - but it is expected to reach 1.5 billion - which is justified as a top-down decision. However, there is no scientific reason not to submit it to a transparent comparison according to the best international experience. I have signed Senator Cattaneo's G2.1 agenda, which explains how to do it, and I leave it to you to explain it. There is therefore no justification for the law-only allocation of funds to a single entity, much less in the case of IIT which, together carrying out research activities on its own, does not have the independence to provide funding to others: it cannot be a laboratory and an agency at the same time; it cannot be a player and referee. Precisely with this argument at the end of the 1990s, the National Research Council (CNR) was deprived of the power to allocate funding to other subjects, because it already did research in its institutions. Then it was considered wrong the combination of roles that today, instead, is proposed in a private subject that is fully delegated to the living room of finance. It was Tremonti who cancelled the appropriation for research project funds and strengthened IIT. He also added an economic and symbolic regalia of what remains of the IRI heritage after privatisation. A comparison between the two historical phases is spontaneous: IIT has taken of IRI all vices and no virtues, it has revived the old vices of the state boyars, who declared themselves public subjects when they received orders without competitions, but they behaved as private individuals when they provided funding in exchange for consent. It has not renewed, however, the virtue that was of IRI in promoting the high-tech enterprise, although this was precisely the objective defined in the founding law n. 326 of 2003. More than EUR 1 billion has already been spent on research into humanoid robotics, but no production chain has been created that can use those scientific results. And yet - as I said - the management of the Foundation has been delegated to representatives of the finance and business lounge, who are evidently showing off with public money without risking on their own. After a long cycle, we returned to the starting point, but with less freedom for science. As has been said, the overlapping of roles between the Agency and the laboratory was eliminated in a public body such as the CNR and today it is reconstituted in a Foundation managed by the financial lounge, without transparency in the allocation procedures and without guarantees for the scientific community. It is paradoxical that, in his first statements, the new President of the CNR accepts this system and simply asks for his part: There will be a directing booth and we will participate in it, declares to the "Corriere della Sera" on March 8, 2016, with a subject that would not even be imaginable in the German Max Planck or in the French CNRS. It is to be hoped that the CNR will find in the future the pride of the main institution of Italian research. Free research, therefore, is very weakened in our country. The resources are assigned by the prince to the accounts and the vassals, which distribute them to the subjects. The FIRB fund has almost disappeared, which financed research projects in the institutions. In order to obtain resources, they must, today, hope only in the negotiations between the presidents of the institutions and the ministerial officials, who manage the financing procedures called hypocritically "premium," but in fact discretionary. Decisions move from labs to palaces. The figures speak for themselves. The current funding of research calls for all universities and academic disciplines is reduced to EUR 30 million per year. But it is no longer said that debt does not allow us to do better, because money is there when it comes to avoiding bans: six times as much (over 180 million euros) are allocated to a single institution, namely the IIT Foundation, which then distributes funding to universities and obtains, in return, the signature of scientific publications, immediatly improving its ranking. In order to consolidate this system, governments have always prevented, in recent years, the establishment of a modern Research Agency, despite proposals from the scientific community and the guidelines approved by Parliament. I would remind you of the Commission's resolution 7a in this regard. The Agency would allow a free comparison of ideas and projects, within a well-defined national and European policy; it would be responsible for spreading project calls, eliminating conflicts of interest and involving the best resources in the implementation of strategic objectives. Freedom of research is not an obstacle, on the contrary it is the only way to achieve large scientific and technological enterprises. What prevents, then, the establishment of the Research Agency? It is in the eyes of all that the obstacle is the resistance of the competent Ministry, which does not accept a reduction of its powers; powers which, however, exercises very badly, as this decree-law shows. It is in everyone's eyes: problems such as the maintenance of schools, which should be solved on a regular basis, with good administration, are brought to Parliament to obtain the seal of the law on emergency measures; or - the correction of Law No 107 which was adopted only a year ago here, evidently with some care, if we have to go back to correcting it today; or - as I said before - the institution, even by decree-law, of a new university, without resorting to ordinary measures and planning. It is necessary - as this decree-law also shows - a profound reorganization of the Ministry, so that the structure focuses on education policy and renounces the competences in research policy, which can be usefully entrusted to a modern agency, led by prestigious scientists, choosing the model of the best international experiences [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bocchino and Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u72	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss yet another decree-law of the Government which identifies as an urgency, this time, the refinancing of beautiful school programmes and the Gran Sasso Science Institute. Instead, we have just voted against, on the contrary, you have voted against a measure that would be really more urgent for the country, namely the amendments to the penal code for the perpetual ban from public offices and the provisions on transparency - the necessary one - and against corruption. You voted against without even wanting to use the electronic system. Now, this measure that you consider urgent, at the first point authorizes the expenditure of additional 64 million euros to ensure until 30 November 2016 the interventions for the maintenance of the decorum and functionality of the school buildings, continuing to use those enterprises that already provide cleaning services in the schools and asking them to respect economic conditions and types of instruments related to the contract and that are equal and not inferior to those established by the Consip conventions. We have asked several times to get out of this outsourcing. It is a choice, yours, in line with the emerging logic and without a decisive character, which leaves in a state of further uncertainty the entire sector of cleaning and auxiliary services intended for schools. Already in October 2014 an inquiry on the Newspaper Fact revealed the clientele and facade of the beautiful schools program wanted and sold to the country by the Renzi government as maintenance interventions of school buildings: colleagues, 150 million euros for 2014, 450 million until the first months of this year were distributed among the various provinces of the country not on the basis of the urgent interventions requested by the institutions or, in some cases, not even wanted. The managers were forced to accept these funds, which were even imposed to ensure employment extensions to precarious workers. The precariousness of ATA staff and former socially useful workers is, in fact, a direct consequence of the long-standing outsourcing policies adopted in recent years for cleaning services in schools. With the sensational program of beautiful schools in Renzi, with very few hours of updating, even the aberration of the use, more and more substantial and shameful, of middle-aged women, between fifty and fifty-five years, in painting operations, repair of plumbing and fixtures. And this has nothing to do with the role of the former bidella, then called school collaborator, and rightly, having recognized it as a very important role for the functioning of public schools. In addition to the worsening of the condition and wages of the workers, the externalizations have produced no savings, continuing to favor the cooperatives tied to the old dynamics and logics of the party. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Centinario]] This measure, then, is not an urgent matter. It was urgent to do what we have said several times, both in the House and in the Senate and also in the Commission, inviting you to face serious security and cleanliness in schools, because it is a problem - yes - to be tackled urgently. The second part of the decree-law under consideration, ladies and gentlemen, contains provisions for the stabilization and recognition of the experimental school of international doctorate Gran Sasso Science Institute. Established by Law No. 35 of 2012, the Gran Sasso Science Institute could represent for the territory of Abruzzo, at least on paper, an important development flywheel, capable of bringing positive repercussions on the territory thanks to the ambitious mission it aims to, that is to attract high-level specialist skills in the field of basic sciences and the mediation between research and enterprise. This project, however, has so far been able only to attract substantial funds: 36 million euros for the three-year period 2013-2015, plus additional 9 million euros, already allocated with the last decree thousandprorogates, to which we go to add the 18 million euros allocated with the resolution CIPE 76/2015 for the three-year period 2016-2018. Given that there is no clarity on the use of these funds, one cannot fail to think more fully about the condition in which scientific research is carried out in our country, where the dispersion, the unreliability, the intransigence and the lack of transparency with which resources are allocated, the almost total absence of checks in itinere or ex post of the results achieved, the systematic scissors to the funds destined for research do inexplicably to counter ambitious and expensive projects, such as the Gran Sasso Science Institute or the "petaloso" Human Technopole, which should arise even in the former area of the Expo; and we should first understand the failures that have been in that area. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] On the other hand, it reveals the unlikely ease, speed and constancy with which these resources are allocated, in the light of the cuts in university research in recent years. This is not yet clear to us. I believe that such schizophrenia shows the tendency of politics in recent years to consider scientific research and school not as the real priorities for the development of our country, but as the ground on which to grow, through continuous commercials, announcements, rain funding, popular consensus. But these sand castles, which you are good at building, have no foundation in reality. Ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you from the heart: they are crumbling and will fall very soon. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u74	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u75	Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are going to convert is a positive strengthening of the project of good school and better defines an idea of country that focuses on the merit, culture, research and education of all, but above all of young citizens. In good school, no matter what, there are many positive things that are being done on time. The defeats were the defeatism of the apocalypses and the quaintness of many colleagues, who had assumed a dramatic picture: none of this. Good school works and works well. It can and must be improved, and that is also why we are here. Recruitment is progressing, school-work alternation is working, school autonomy is strengthened and much more. This decree-law goes further to strengthen some measures and well done the rapporteur, Francesca Puglisi, whom I thank, to emphasize their importance. The continuation and refinancing of the beautiful school programme is fundamental and it is absolutely unacceptable that it should be developed. This is an important programme, which this Government has carried out for the first time, after years of indifference. I can say that, because I was city councilman at the school and president of the Province and I made numerous and constant requests to the Ministry to have more resources for schools, but they were never there. Then it happens that schools fall down or get damaged. This government finally makes a turnaround: of course, if there were more resources it would be better, but in the meantime a programme was started. I would therefore like to thank the Government, the President of the 7th Commission, the rapporteur and all those who supported the continuation of the beautiful schools project. For Prime Minister Matteo Renzi education is a priority of the country and in the provision to our examination it is reiterated. In fact, many significant interventions are planned, among which I think it is particularly useful and important to extend the bonus for 18-year-olds also to children with a residence permit. Social inclusion is pursued by the facts and not by the chatter and amendment of the Government that has extended the bonus to eighteen with residence permit is a fair and civil measure, which does not create discrimination. The 500 euro card is part of the Italian response to terrorism and the mafia: encouraging young people to culture is a way to educate tolerance, responsibility and legality. It is a principle that applies to eighteen Italians, but also to others who live in our country. Antonino Caponnetto said that the Mafia is not afraid of justice, but is afraid of the school and we must ensure that the school is increasingly a deterrent to lawlessness, mafia and terrorism. Unlike my colleague who spoke earlier, I am also particularly pleased - and I thank Matteo Renzi, Minister Giannini and all those who have allowed this important intervention - with the rule on the Gran Sasso Science Institute (GSSI). I thank everyone, because only a few weeks ago, during the important visit of the President-in-Office of the Council to nuclear physics laboratories, a commitment was made, which was duly and quickly honoured. [[Comments from Senator Blundo.]] The Gran Sasso Science Institute is a research centre and an international doctoral school. It has been established experimentally for a three-year period and is now, at last, stabilized, after a positive evaluation of the results by the National Agency for the Evaluation of the University System and Research (ANVUR). It is a new school of special order, now part of the national university system. It is one of the most innovative and advanced projects in Italy to strengthen high training and scientific research in recent decades. Illations about this structure only hurt the city that hosts it, that is L'Aquila, who is proud to have this structure and to have a Government that not only stabilizes it, but finances it. Thank you, therefore, because this is an important fact: this structure has been made possible precisely thanks to the impetus of the OECD, which has indicated it as one of the strategic projects for the revival of the earthquaked city and of the entire crater, which can not only be reconstructed, but must look far away, investing in research and innovation. The GSSI is linked to the presence of existing research skills and structures, such as the national laboratories of the Gran Sasso of the National Institute of Nuclear Physics (INFN) and the University of L'Aquila, with its scientific faculties. Working in synergy with these institutions and activating collaborations with national and international research institutes and high training, the GSSI is promoting the attraction of resources of excellence in the field of research and innovative entrepreneurship. Four PhD courses are available: physics, mathematics, computer science and territorial development. It's no big deal. In the first three years, more than three thousand applications were received from all over the world, for a total of about 150 PhD students and selected young researchers, of which about 50 percent came from abroad. We don't put brains on the run, but, on the contrary, we attract brains from other countries. A reality born after the earthquake according to a precise strategic plan. Again I thank and express great satisfaction for the stabilisation and recognition in the university system of the GSSI International PhD Experimental School, for the recognition of its activities and for the right, adequate financing for its activities. This helps research in Italy and makes the country more competitive and helps to grow and enhance a territory that no longer wants to think about rubble, but wants to look, even with these projects, at an important future, made up of competitiveness, commitment to students, study and research. The forecasts have not been denied, and that is why, with pride, I shall be voting in favour of this bill. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u76	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the draft law No 2299 aimed at improving the functionality of the school system and of research, which, by virtue of Article 2, stabilizes and recognizes the Gran Sasso Science Institute International PhD Experimental School. This draft law deals with the programming and functionality of research and in this general discussion I would therefore like to focus on the improvisation of the Human Tecnopole affair, on which I have presented a special agenda, the G2.1. Vicenda, who has also been the subject of the deliberations of some senators, in the 7th Commission and also in the Chamber this morning, and among them I would like to mention Senators Tocci and Bocchino. This story is exemplary of the criticalities of the procedures that govern research in Italy and of the possibility - if we wanted and committed ourselves to doing so - to move giant steps precisely to improve the functionality of the delicate ecosystem of public research that is spoken of in the bill. To speak of the Tecnopolo, I would first like to start from the ethical bond that binds every scholar of every discipline to the citizens who with their taxes support those studies, a bond that implies for the scholar the commitment to be honest, that is to restore and respect the evidence, to be transparent and to put into action every behavior so that every rational idea can be freely compared with every other, in full right to be evaluated. It is through this mechanism, which implies freedom and equality of ideas for access to public resources on a competitive basis, that the best sustainable proposal with public funds will be returned to the citizen. There are no shortcuts. It is a method that has nothing to do with the needs and the contingency or political conveniences, but that directs every decision and evaluation on the selection of the best ideas and on the control of the facts. Adopting these rules means respecting the ethical structure of science and respecting the commitment to citizens. This is what scientific communities in free, democratic and economically advanced countries are asking. The same request is addressed to us, as political decision-makers, and to the Government. My request is that the area of freedom of ideas of all, young people and young people, whether small or large, be protected in competition with each other, so that the most beautiful ideas can be translated into a better future for all. In our country we have many unresolved problems on the research front. Public funding for research and even more basic research, which studies in full dignity to understand and deliver knowledge to all of us, is ridiculous, discontinuous, fragmented, often unreliable. It also happens that the same research objectives are distributed across multiple public providers. It happens that to the calls Prin of the MIUR cannot directly access the scholars of the CNR and that to the notices of the Ministry of Health cannot apply the university scholars: the calls of CNR are for the CNR only and so on and often the objectives are the same. We should remove this fragmentation, unify the objectives and, at the same time, have a guarantee of evaluation of what is being financed with public money. I admit that I can no longer listen to young people and young people saying that if you have not been part of the right friend's power - I mean scientists and scholars - you will not have public funding; that if you denounce anomalies you will be excluded for the years to come; that if you keep quiet, you will have a small part, guaranteeing it more important to others. It is also from these corruptive ways of the method of science, as well as of public ethics, that scholars escape. There is a way to overcome these distortions. It would be enough to look at the countries that are next to us and create a National Research Agency, mutualizing the models already existing in Spain, France, and, with more complex and effective systems, in Germany and Great Britain, adapting them to the peculiarities of Italy. Dear colleagues, public research in all the disciplines of knowledge needs five components: continuity of the calls to compete with, because an idea that grows does not work intermittently; reliable and granitic procedures, unified in the method and diversified according to the objectives; third, independent, competent evaluations; controls I would iron at each step; reliable and verifiable reports on what is financed and what has been generated. This must be the National Research Agency. Designing such an institution may not entail large expenditures for the State. One could think of redirecting fragmented finances and human resources between the various government agencies, to concentrate duplicate functions in a single structure in different offices. In addition, for a few years public funding flows could be reduced or suspended to inefficient bodies or those that have already accumulated a treasure trove of public money, which has now been set aside. The National Research Agency would be born as distinct from the policy, which is responsible for deciding the objectives to be pursued and the resources to be allocated but which cannot choose discreetly who to finance. Necessarily, the Research Agency must be well distinguished from the community of scholars who will then carry out the research. I think of the Agency as a crystal house and as a step forward to see us even clearer about the rules on the management of public funds in Italy in an area where the results are well monitored. Its functions must include setting up any sensitive procedure to ensure that the citizen is well spent, restoring confidence in the institutions. The construction of such an agency in our country becomes even more urgent today, in view of the realization of the Human Technopole project, the technological pole dedicated to life sciences and nutrition that the Government has announced to create in the Expo area, committing itself to guarantee 1.5 billion euros in ten years. A project born in an improvised way as it does not happen in any country, which the Executive entrusted to an institution, the Italian Institute of Technology, arbitrarily chosen as the pivot of the operation without public competition, therefore making discretionary choices against any logic of maximization of public investment and against the method of science. It is an institution to which, without any public ban, 80 million euros have already been allocated by law without control and without a clear end. That is why, in an attempt to answer the questions raised after the Government's announcement, I conducted an analysis, based on public data and the first results of which were collected in a study paper of about 50 pages for Parliament and the citizens whom I deposited here last week in this House, also in view of the forthcoming parliamentary passages. I leave to you the possible deepening of that document, but here I would like to summarize four conclusions to which I have come and which demonstrate that the dynamics of the Human Technopole affair are paradigmatic of how public research should not be promoted. The first conclusion is based on historical experiences and political-economic analyses, which show that it is a mistake to establish by law which idea and scientific project to support. On the Milanese Tecnopolo the premises are wrong, because in science, as in the field of public procurement, every allocation of public funds cannot be excluded from a competition to support the best proposals and the best proposing bodies. As a second conclusion, the document shows that the same experiences and analyses show that the continuous and non-competitive concentration of public money for research in a few hands is ineffective. Thirdly, those who receive public money must report publicly. The continuous allocation of large sums of public money to organisational models of research centers such as the Italian Institute of Technology foundation of private law largely financed by state funds, which escape public reporting and transparent administration, does not respect the ethical obligation to provide adequate evidence of the relapse of the investment and, in my opinion, is not the model of governance to be implemented in the Milanese Tecnopolo. Finally, the beneficiary institution chosen as coordinator of the Tecnopolo does not have the specific competences in the areas indicated by the Government as content for the research center, life sciences and nutrition. This has led the institution to recruit equally arbitrarily, therefore in a discriminatory way, themes, bodies and scholars. It is on this basis that I have presented the agenda that - I am aware - it cannot be discussed in the event of the imposition of confidence, but on which I hope, however, the Government will wish to express itself. I would like to call on the Commission to rethink the strategies for the implementation of the Human Technopole project and, above all, to take every necessary and appropriate action to achieve a transparent and scientifically and culturally participated and competitive path on the example of successful and successful experiences abroad. There are examples, which I would like to mention in the document delivered. I believe that rethinking the strategy on Human Technopole and doing so downstream of the creation of a National Agency for Research would really be a step change and a sign of the Government's commitment to working in the perspective of a more complete and functional reform of the system of financing research in Italy. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and Mixed.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u78	We greet the teachers and students of the Istituto tecnologico tecnologico stato "Alessandro Volta" in Perugia, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]] The two students of the Bachelor's degree course in jurisprudence of the University of Pavia are also present in the gallery, who have been the winners of a legislative drawing exercise carried out under the supervision of the Offices of the Senate, in the context of teaching the language of law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u79	Senator Napolitano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u80	Mr President, in some of the previous speeches - in particular, in the intervention of particular commitment and authority of Senator Cattaneo - there have been issues of great importance relating to scientific research policy. These are issues of vital interest to the very world of research, scientists and researchers: a largely young world, which I have heard a lot in recent years, and which is called to play a very important role for the future of our country, as well as, in general, for the future of science. Of course, I am well aware that the measure we are discussing only concerns this subject tangentially, through the article mentioned also by Senator Cattaneo, and on which Senator Tocci, on the stabilization of the International PhD School Gran Sasso Science Institute, has focused. However, that is not what I would like to dwell on. And I understand that, for the specific and general issues raised, for example, by Senator Cattaneo on her agenda, it can be said that this is not the most appropriate place to discuss it. But the truth, Mr President and Mr President-in-Office of the Government, is that there has been no other forum for information and clarification that should have been offered to Parliament. Here, today, in a particular way, we touch the problem of the Human Technopole project, destined to take place in the ex Expo area. It is a project to which we must look positively, knowing that it can represent something serious and significant for the further development of research, particularly in those fields that have been designated almost as the theme of the Universal Exhibition held in Milan. We had a government decision and an announcement last November through the presentation of a decree-law, then converted into law by vote, I believe, of trust in Parliament or, at least, to the Senate; decree with which 80 million were allocated for the presentation of a project for the Human Technopole structure to be carried out in that area by the Italian Institute of Technology, heard the three universities in Milan. That, then, happened last November. Then it happened that, opening the debate outside Parliament (in Parliament it was never possible to discuss it), many controversial remarks were made to which the Italian Institute of Technology itself responded with its official statement on 27 March last. In that statement, it was announced that it had already submitted the draft proposal to the relevant ministers on 25 February. Today we are in mid-May or almost and the follow-up of that announcement-decision have never been clarified. There was no information. In the same statement that I have just mentioned it is said that it will be consulted or that it is being consulted (and we do not know if a consultation has already been and has ended, but we do not know anything about it) an international panel, whose composition has never been made known. Nor has it been made known whether the observations of this international panel have already been produced. Then in that IIT statement it is said that it will be up to the Government to decide with Parliament, first of all whether to finance this project. The announcement, therefore, made not only for the immediate delivery of 80 million - a rather expensive project - but also for the allocation of no less than 1.5 billion over the course of ten years; it was evidently vague if the Italian Institute of Technology, protagonist of this affair, says that it will be up to the Government to decide "whether to finance this project, how much to finance it and, finally, how to manage it." I do not need to stress how indispensable and urgent answers are now. We would not like that after other facts have been determined. We need timely answers on all these missing links and taking into account the more general issues, beyond these relatively specific ones, although the project itself is relevant. However, the general questions posed by Senator Cattaneo and other colleagues concern the structuring, articulation and management of the policy of scientific research, i.e. concerning method and competence, and together transparency and morality. Morality is meant, as well as ethical principles to be inspired hopefully in this and in every other field, guaranteeing the correct and productive use - and of course verifiable - of public resources that are destined for scientific research, following procedures that are not to be invented, but to be widely borrowed from international experiences known to those who deal with the problems of scientific research. I believe that the problems raised by Senator Cattaneo on his agenda must be satisfied, despite the fact that the question of confidence in the conversion of this decree has been raised. The agenda will not be voted on, as trust will be placed, but I expect, Honourable Representative of the Government, that in his reply we will say precise things, that clear commitments will be made, both in terms of providing all the information that has been lacking, and of showing a willingness, which I cannot imagine there is not from the Government, to rethink hasty decisions that are largely questionable in terms of the method and that of the general interests of scientific research and therefore the future of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u81	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u82	Mr President, the remarks just made by President Napolitano'move' somewhat the content of my speech. However, I refer to the remarks I wanted to make in relation to the other speakers from the majority. Someone spoke of another important piece of school reform; someone else emphasized the scope of this decree that, beyond the article concerning the center of the Gran Sasso, essentially deals with small things. In fact, what do we find governed by Article 1 of this decree, which, in an emphatic way, has been classified as urgent provisions on the functionality of the school system and research? With regard to the functionality of the school system we find precisely the provisions of Article 1, which are intended essentially for the extension of the school cleaning and auxiliary services for the same enterprises that had Conventions in existence at 31 March 2014. Pending the renewal of the conventions with the Council, as already mentioned in other interventions, a postponement is arranged until 31 December 2016. Translating this provision into a more pragmatic and clear language, it is that stylicide that concerns that audience of socially useful workers who for years have known a uncertainty in their work path, never resolved by any Government and that continues not to resolve, as a simple postponement to 31 December 2016 is being arranged. The novelty of this decree with respect to the previous decrees and to the measure emphatically called "belle scuole belle" is that these LSU have been reused and re-used for maintenance activities for the restoration of the decoration of the buildings. Basically, it is mostly the painting of the premises of the schools and little more, because all those that are more specific and more risky technical skills, also from the point of view of responsibilities, and more complicated from the point of view of the training of this staff, are resolved with other types of activities, mostly entrusted to the bodies owners of these schools (municipalities and Provinces) or, for small emergencies, to those few funds available to the school managers. If we look for urgent provisions in this measure on the functionality of the school system we find very little, in addition to ensuring the continuation of the work of this staff, simply to make small painting interventions or very small and trivial maintenance. There is no problem, when it comes to the functionality of the school system, that schools have other, much more urgent needs every day. There has been a great deal of work over the last few years, also using substantial European funds to computerize schools. Most schools start to have interactive multimedia boards that, after a few months of operation, just because they are instruments of some complexity, often do not work anymore and school leaders do not have the funds to be able to repair them. These whiteboards mean, for example, that schools must be equipped with a fast and always functioning Internet connection, while the Wi-Fi network in schools often does not work or works badly and the interventions for restoration are real stunts, which school leaders try to make either with non-existent funds or putting back to the good will and collaboration of the mayors, who unfortunately do not always have sufficient funds in their budgets. It happens then that our children, the pupils of those schools, cannot use this computer equipment that would make the schools a version 2.0, as they say with a very abused formula, i.e. interactive schools. Take a look at the various schools and see how many interactive multimedia boards work and how many wi-fi networks there are fully usable. If the goal were really that of the functionality of the school system, the urgencies would be many and certainly not only that of covering 31 December 2016 in order to guarantee not a future employment, but a small time space to people who, for years, since the introduction of workers socially useful in schools, see their future always thickened of clouds and witness a stylicide of buffer measures, which overlap from month to month and from year to year. What, however, about the functionality of the school system and good school, the first funds that school managers are trying to use in these first few weeks to assess the merit of teachers? Criteria that are very difficult to introduce, very long and serious discussions with the teachers that lead to or spread those few funds - but very few: we talk on average of 400-500 euros throughout the year - in an uncriticized way and without any evaluation of the merit of the teachers, or to inscribe the situation in a stand by, so the school manager, with the commission that maybe appoints himself to this, cannot find criteria fully convincing. Among the amendments tabled by the Commission and the rapporteur was an amendment concerning disabled people in equal schools. I do not go into the merits of this choice, I just say that in public schools there is the same problem of assistance to the disabled, which is most guaranteed by the support teachers. Very often, however - and those in the school know it well - especially for serious disabilities, in addition to supporting teachers there is a need for other figures, who can support the ordinary teacher and the support teacher, and these figures are sometimes guaranteed by the staff of the ASL, unfortunately not always and not in all the Regions, and never with enough time to be able to meet particularly important and delicate needs that cannot be returned only to the teaching staff or the teachers of support. This is a battle of civilization which, when urgent decrees are adopted, should not be postponed from time to time. I register, if it should go into port, that the amendment on the school of childhood is the only positive note of this tormented page of the decree-law in question. I now want to focus on another issue, which concerns the changed competences of the Provinces in the light of the changes introduced by the so-called Delrio law. On 17 February I tabled, together with other colleagues, a question in which we posed the problem that the Provinces currently hold, under the current law, No 56 of 2014, the management of school building alone. On the basis of this assumption I have pointed out that the old and wider administrative function, attributed by article 14, paragraph 1, letter i), of law n. 142 of 1990 and maintained by article 19, paragraph 1, letter i), of legislative decree n. 267 of 2000, the unique text of the local authorities. With that question we asked the Government to clarify that, in addition to the management of the school building, the problem had to be posed of all the utilities, of all the ordinary expenses that no longer compete with the Provinces and that they should compete with the school leaders, therefore with the Ministry and therefore with the State. I have not yet had an answer, while I think the topic is delicate: next winter we will see who will pay the charges for heating! I shall conclude, Mr President, with one final comment. With regard to research, the previous interventions have illustrated a whole series of complexities of the decree-law under consideration; I would just like to add that research problems and university cuts are severely penalising the universities of the South, which see the number of their members drop and become increasingly expensive, with a student escape from the system of public universities that is truly uncivilized and unbecoming. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u83	Mr President, before I speak, I would like to highlight three issues which leave me very perplexed. The first is that three times this morning there has been no quorum on a school measure, where, if I remember correctly, when the President-in-Office of the Council came to this House the first time he told us that the school for him - and so I think for this majority too - had to be the priority. Well, if school is a priority and the majority cannot guarantee a quorum three times, I wonder where you are going and what you are going to do with matters that are not considered priority. Secondly, school is and should be a priority for this Government, but since we started dealing with this measure, the Minister has never been seen. Look at the government's benches: the Minister's not even the shadow. It is so much a priority that the Minister does not come to this House to talk about the priorities of this Government! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Montevecchi]] It is so much a priority that this majority and this Government - now the voice turns and is increasingly insistent - have decided to tarp their wings once again to the parliamentary debate, since we intend to put trust. Senator Napolitano has also mentioned this, and some of his colleagues have mentioned it. There were 40 amendments to be dealt with: 40 amendments. Put your trust in a measure that would theoretically go away quietly, because in the Commission, talking to colleagues and in the debate on it there has never been a moment of confrontation. It means that this provision is a pain in the ass, that for this majority and for this Government must be taken out as quickly as possible: let's face it! Or you have included so many stupidities in this measure that perhaps it is better to put trust in order to get it approved as quickly as possible, so as not to risk any embarrassing situations in this House. Mr President, last summer we had a good school, now we have beautiful schools. On the national territory of beautiful schools I see very few of them, perhaps they are in the head of the President of the Council: surely at night, in his head, he dreams of beautiful, modern, avant-garde schools; he dreams that in a hypothetical Italy, managed by him, there are beautiful and welcoming schools. This measure, Mr President, is another tool to show the people, distracted in another, that the Lord of Florence is doing something: let us show that Renzi is doing something about the school. Meanwhile, colleagues, schools are obsolete and it is before everyone's eyes that they fall apart: the plasters in many schools collapse on students, it is news a few days ago. Parents - it is not Senator Centinario who says so, but the parents of the pupils who attend schools - are forced to put in the folder, in addition to teaching material, also toilet paper, because the schools are so beautiful that there is not even toilet paper. But let's tell Renzi, because maybe he gives it away. And then I want to call back, as Senator Bruni did before, the heating problem. In the Province of Pavia, from which I come, it is not very hot and in winter, indeed, it is rather cold. Well, the President of the Province, former Senator PD, reduced school days from Monday to Friday, so at least on Saturdays the school stays closed and saves itself on heating. The schools are so beautiful that we give the students less hours of class or more compressed hours so as to save even on heating. But for Renzi the schools are beautiful, they are beautiful, colleagues. What, then, is the beautiful school program? It consists of facade interventions to give more and more money to those cooperative friends of friends of friends of friends of friends. Some colleagues have spoken of repainting (because that was). With the plan beautiful schools forced the janitors to repaint the classrooms of some institutions. But the funny thing is that the janitors were forced to repaint up to a meter and ninety centimeters, because beyond are necessary the permissions, scaffolding and ceilings cannot be touched. As a result, these poor janitors painted as far as they could, because beyond it you can't touch. But you can't even scratch the painting that was there before, so you give painting on painting: let's give a coat of paint, so at least let's see that something we do, so the Italian citizens are distracted by other and Renzi shows that schools are beautiful. Speaking of cooperatives, Mr President, I simply read the draft law in broad terms so as to see nothing more than additional financing for cooperatives and not a real concern for workers, as set out in the text (in order to ensure the continuity of employment and income for engaged workers). Redditorial? Not to be long-winded, I give some indications. First of all, for workers it would be a term contract and not a job continuity, given that the work of the beautiful schools would end in November anyway. So we don't talk about continuity in work. Moreover, the purchase through the Council of cleaning and auxiliary services, ladies and gentlemen, costs much more than hiring directly school workers (the janitors), who, in addition to cleaning, also deal with reception, surveillance, assistance, which the employees of Manutencoop, whom we pay well, cannot do by contract. Thirdly, but not least: hired workers would not receive a decent salary, given that at present, with their work, they must earn mainly legalized corporals, who only identify the people to be sent to schools, while their organization is the responsibility of the schools themselves. It would be a caporalate managed by the Italian State. Let me give an example of how much a school janitor pays in Manutencoop: 4,800 euros, for a month. Do you think the employee gets 4,800 euros for a month's work? The employee arrives less than 1,000 euros. This is what the Italian State pays for to have a poor service from those who are offering us cheap services, dear colleagues. In addition to this problem, colleagues, last summer you humiliated the world of school, with the "good school" (now there is the beautiful school, last summer the good school and soon' Renzi will invent a new school). You have humiliated teachers who have been working for years in the world of school and who today are seen overwhelmed by those who do not even know the school; or forced to prove, with a farce contest (which makes water everywhere and they are saying it all), that they are able to teach. People who have been teaching for years are forced to do a contest and are equalized to others who have never seen the school. This is Renzi's good school. The teachers have humiliated them as you are trying to humiliate races with this provision. We, with an agenda, wanted to propose the adoption of the double channel, but once again, with the confidence that you put forward, we will not be able to present it and therefore we will not be able to deal with this proposal either. I am not talking about Human Technopole, President, because people have spoken much more competent than I have said clearly - or at least they have made it clear - that this is yet another hoax, the umpteenth hoax that is told to the Italians. When Italians are told certain things, when they say that certain things are done, that you have plans and you want to do something, you act in a competent way and after listening to competent people. The problem, however, is that it is easier to listen to President Renzi who does not even know what she is talking about than Senator Cattaneo who perhaps, if asked, could have explained something first to the President of the Council so as not to make him look like another international figure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In fact, we make an impression because this person, unfortunately, has the "ad syndrome" and must always tell the world the things he wants to do and that he is not able to do. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am addressing the few people who are listening because the hemicycle is empty and in theory we could ask for a quorum, even if we do not - as far as the good culture of 500 euros is concerned, it has been decided to give it to non-EU citizens as well. Yeah, let's give it to everyone. After 80 euros, given to the right and left, it has now been decided to spend as much as 12 million euros to give those famous 500 euros to 18-year-olds even if they are non-EU citizens. Those EUR 12 million, dear President-in-Office of the Council who never listens to us, we could use them to do something else: for example, to improve the teaching for students, for the technological boards, for the classrooms, for anything but for those who come to Italy to do not know what. President. - I conclude by saying that once again this measure is the product of the mind of a person who does not know the school. We invite the President-in-Office of the Council to take a trip to the schools, the famous trip that was once made, to confront each other and not, as at the beginning of the parliamentary term, to have the children sing the songs as at the time of fascism, to see what happens in the schools so that such rules are not produced. Because going on like this, you're gonna bury the school. What I have to say is that I will say at the time of the explanation of vote on the confidence that you will also put this time. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u84	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u87	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Mr President, I asked to speak today to draw the Presidency's attention to a letter sent to the Minister of Justice Orlando by the Bari prosecutor, Dr Volpe. It is a letter of worrying and alarmed content where a serious shortage of staff is ratified at the disposal of the offices to which it has been objectively impossible to remedy with substitute palliatives as has been done so far and for too long. This fact, which is absolutely worrying, specifically concerns the procurement of a territory that is never particularly sensitive and sensitive today. Bari, in fact, is experiencing a real revival of the action of criminal groups. Bari is the place where a couple of days ago more than half a kilo of TNT was found, probably destined to an attack on the prosecutor of Naples. Bari appears more and more as a possible area of cover and joint for the transit and parking of terrorists and suspects such. A set of data, therefore, that leaves even more concerned about the fact that they associate with a wider and more widespread state of agitation and mobilization that the operators of the justice of this Region, of my Region, Puglia, live for a long time, because of the feared reform of judicial geography. A reform that would like the closure of some founding garrisons of the state, for example the court of appeal of Lecce, and with it the relative disposal of the district direction antimafia, in the full therefore of a process of mafia - yes, just of mafia - against a possible new germination of the SCU. I refer to the Eclipse trial, where the suspects rejected the lawyers, saying that the SCU doesn't exist and no one has to doubt it anymore. But other doubts insist, also on the same concentration and dislocation of the offices of the Bari court, now considered to be collapsed and completely unable to meet the real needs that this institution has to meet. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to speak to Mr Orlando about the request to report on these facts or to respond very quickly to the 3-0283, which I have presented and which relates to the alarming data that have just been given.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u90	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am still speaking, as I did last week, about the company crisis of König, a historic Lecco company from 1966, which is based in the municipality of Molteno and which produces snow chains. Last year it was acquired by an Austrian multinational company, Pewag; on the eve of 1 May, this company decided to close the Lecco plant and relocate its production in Carinthia and the Czech Republic. One hundred and thirty employees are at great risk of dismissal; the reasons are the high taxes and the high cost of energy (so the high cost of labour) and the high bureaucracy. On Monday 9 May there was a table in the Province of Lecco, with the Province, the property and the trade union representatives, on which the property confirmed the willingness to relocate. I am still speaking today, Mr President, as I did last week with Question 4-05745, because two new things have happened. The first is that we have discovered that, with the famous jobs act that Prime Minister Renzi continues to decant, in the case of companies that relocate and close there are no more social shock absorbers for employees, that is, these one hundred and thirty employees from Lecchesi will end up directly on the move, without benefiting from the social shock absorber. This is a very serious thing, other than the nice jobs act. The second novelty is that, compared to last week, for two days the Minister Calenda has been installed in the Ministry of Economic Development, to which I had already addressed last week and which I strongly invite to convene an institutional table with the property and the union representatives, so that the problem of König, which is a general problem, is addressed. The closure of this company must be avoided, possibly inviting the property to submit an industrial plan for the conversion of production. The scandal is that the jobs act leaves König's employees on the street, just as it will leave employees of other companies purchased in recent months by foreign companies to steal the brand and to leave only burned land in our Italian territory. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-623.ana.u91	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 10.03 p.m.
