ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 28 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u8	I inform you that on 3 May 2016 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance and the Minister of Justice
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u9	[[The President stands up and with him the whole House.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Learco Saporito, former senator, State Secretary and university professor, died in Rome on 30 April at 79 years of age. Born in Scafati, in the province of Salerno, on October 17, 1936, he always felt deeply attached to the institutions and in particular to the Senate. His parliamentary career almost thirty years ago, in fact, begins and ends in this House. He entered the Senate as a successor at the beginning of the 8th legislature, a member of the Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group. In the ninth legislature he was re-elected senator in the ranks of the DC for the Foligno-Spoleto college. Although he was not a Umbrian of origin, he managed to create a very strong bond with Umbria and its electorate over the years. Also this circumstance was the measure of how Saporito meant political activity: not a self-referential fact, but a responsible service towards society and especially the weaker classes, as he said in a debate in the Senate. The close bond that he was able to create with the earth and the Umbrian people earned him the re-election to the Senate, always in the same constituency, both in the X and in the XI legislature. During the 10th legislature he was entrusted with the first post of State Secretary to the Presidency of the Council in the first Goria Government and then in the De Mita Government until 1989. He was then appointed to the same Executive Undersecretary for University and Scientific Research, a position that was renewed in the governments of Andreotti sixth and seventh. Former member of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the XI legislature, he also assumed the post of Vice President of the DC Group and was appointed a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Institutional Reforms. Although he was not re-elected in the two successive legislatures, he never ceased to deal with politics and citizenship, even as President of the National Association of Migrant Families from 1981 to 2010. In the nineties he devoted himself more forcefully to the associationism and to the local political activity, being also councilman to the Province of Rome, and he contributed and believed strongly to the foundation of the party of National Alliance, in whose ranks he was re-elected senator, in the XIV and XV legislature. Politician of experience and undisputed competence, he was State Secretary to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers for the Civil Service, both in the second and in the third Berlusconi Government, and followed in that capacity numerous measures, especially for legislative and administrative simplification. He was, in short, one of the first and most convinced supporters of simplification policies. For him, the regulatory reorganization and the reduction of administrative burdens were a necessary basis for the country's competitiveness. His commitment as Undersecretary was appreciated by all political forces, including opposition. Its human trait was characterized by institutional activity, as in private, by loyalty and willingness to dialogue. He had at heart concreteness and put the resolution of problems at the heart of his political commitment. When his party passed into the minority in the 15th legislature, his opposition was never preconceived and confrontational, but he was always attentive to merit, as he engaged in the issues of constitutional reform and public administration. He finished his career in the institutions with the appointment, in April 2009, as a secular member of the Board of Presidents of Administrative Justice and continued his academic career. Saporito, in fact, before even a politician, was and continued to be a university professor. Yet, as an academic, he always had a strong interest in studying the organization of the State. Pioneer of regional law, we remember his monographs on the subject since the 1970s. The last monograph, the second edition of which was published in 2012, has an evocative title: "Regionalism, federalism and national interest." In this writing, Saporito, who had experienced the process of state reform in the federal sense, deals with the evolution of relations between central power and local institutions with great lucidity, highlighting the problem and the parameter of national interest. This text is perhaps a summary of his life, in which study and political passion have always walked together. He was a politician attentive to listening, especially to the world of public administration, which in him always had a constant point of reference. Humility in the approach was equal to competence and ability to respond. It was a politician in the noblest sense of the term, who made a valuable contribution in a delicate phase and passing from one era to the other of the democratic system. The Senate pays tribute to him and expresses its condolences to the family. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u12	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, I believe that, with the disappearance of Learco Saporito, anyone who has had the pleasure of meeting him is more lonely. Learco Saporito came from southern Italy, from Scafati. But, as you said very well, Mr President, your parliamentary journey took place in Umbria. To me, who came from Naples to Rome, happened to know him when, along with my wife, I wanted to go a few days to follow the festival of Spoleto. Having met a lovable, nice and festive person like Learco Saporito made, at that time, less harsh my transfer from Naples to Rome. We were then colleagues in this House in the 11th legislature. Saporito was veteran - as you recalled - from important experiences of Government with De Mita and Andreotti. He was known to the parliamentary colleagues of the Christian Democracy Group as the greatest expert, worshiper and aggregater of the problems, categories and sub-categories of the public employment. We were together in the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr Saporito's amendments were a classic of the Commission's work. The colleague Maurizio Sacconi, then brilliant exponent of the Government Amato to the public function, and therefore in search of competitive rationality for the Italian economy in those dramatic days, he saw himself pressed by Saporito in the intense and generous research, perhaps more than the competitiveness of the Italian system, of justice in the particular case. Saporito had the art of complicating simple issues, but this - perhaps I didn't understand it then - was parliamentaryism in the noblest sense of the term, no less than Andreotti and Andreottismo had been simplifications of complicated issues. Together with Saporito I found myself, in that legislature, to be part of the Junta of the elections and the permissions to proceed and he, for me, was the most important teacher of life. Today we talk with so many ridiculous technicalities of guaranteeing and justiceism as if they were categories of politology. Saporito was a reference point for his extraordinary humanity. There was no colleague reached by a warranty notice and by the request for permission to proceed with which Learco Saporito did not find the right human measure. And for me, liberal and neo-senator then very shy - never would have voted in favour of an authorization to proceed to any colleague - Learcus Saporito in those fringes was very, very important. After that season - as you remember - Learco Saporito, who had more left-wing roots than of Christian Democrat andreottism or Degasperian centrism, with much consistency and passion, decided to be with the Catholic and Christian Democrat world leaders like Publius Flowers and, speaking of the Catholic world, I think of Gaetano Rebecchini and our former Senator Ramponi, to bring the history of National Alliance from the right to the center. He returned to Parliament and the Government and was a collaborator, as Undersecretary, of Frattini before and of Mastella then and we all remember him, in this House, as one of the best and most pleasant people. Then I happened to cross him with his wife sometimes in the South and sometimes in the far north, in Cortina. Hence a great sadness and a great affection of our Group for his wife and loved ones. [[Applause from the CoR and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Razzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u15	AMORUSO (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, the AL-A Group supports the pain that struck the family over the disappearance of Senator Learco Saporito. The President wanted today to remember his professional career as an illustrious university professor, who carried out his mandate at many universities in Italy, as a politician linked to this institution, to the Senate, for many legislatures and as a man of government, three times State Secretary. His commitment, however, did not end in political activity but continued in social life, with the presidency of the National Association of Migrant Families. He continued in his work also at the service of the local communities, as city council member to the Province of Rome, and then ended his commitment to the Council of Presidency of Administrative Justice. It is an excursion that certainly honours a man who has been able to give much to his country, institutions, the Italian university and the family he loved so much. Alongside this, I would like to recall Learco Saporito in a particular way during his last period of parliamentary stay, when I had the pleasure of being called by him to be part of an institution little known in the Italian Parliament, but which he strongly wanted and of which he was one of the actuators: the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean. As a member of the Interparliamentary Union, it was among those who had the idea of creating this international political body that represented the parliaments of our Mediterranean, a sea so entangled, particularly in recent days, by so many dramatic situations. Learco Saporito was elected Vice President of this body and President of the Third Commission, concerning interreligious dialogue, culture and the confrontation between civilizations. It was in that role that, at the end of his parliamentary experience, he wanted me to replace him, in order to carry forward, on behalf of Italy, the strong commitment to the service of our politics. We can only be close to the family in the memory of this great man, who - please allow me, Mr President - disappeared when another great senator, Vincenzo De Cosmo, died in my Puglia. [[Applause from Senator Comrade]] Vincenzo De Cosmo died last April 25, a few days before Learco Saporito. He had a life almost parallel to that of Learcus: he too of Catholic formation, also very valuable university professor of statistics, also parliamentary (deputy and senator), as well as President of the Senate Industry Commission in the XI legislature (1992 to 1994). De Cosmo was also at the service of his country and the community as mayor, for two terms, of the city of Molfetta. These are two parallel lives and two important examples of men who, in their Catholic formation, found the strength of the concept of politics as a service for institutions, in which they strongly believed, and for their own country, which is something that, perhaps, today many in Italian politics lack. I think that remembering two great gentlemen, two great politicians and two illustrious university professionals together today is an important fact for this assembly, which has been honored by their presence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u18	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really remember with affection and respect Learco Saporito, with whom I shared a long parliamentary experience during the First and Second Republics, during which we belonged to several parties, but to the same coalition. I join, together with all the colleagues of the People's Area Group, the pain of your family members and - if I may say so - I do so in particular on behalf of my colleague Luciano Rossi, Senator of Umbria, who remembers what you, President Gasparri, said just now, in the name of a rigorous parliamentary service. In particular, by Learco Saporito I would like to recall his strong sense of the State. This is an expression which is somewhat obscure, but which actually corresponds to a requirement that we should be more aware of in our political action. In Learch the sense of the State was translated into the unitary dimension of the State, because it wanted the unity of the Nation to be always corresponding to it, that unity that was called into question by the disordered processes of our federalism, not by chance defined as a crooked tree. But there was also a strong conviction in him that the State had first and foremost a duty of neutrality. I do not hide - as my colleague Mr Compagna mentioned earlier - our strong reasons for dissent, a high and civil dissension. Several times, in my political, parliamentary and governmental experience, I have worked to ensure that there is an evolution of public administrations towards common law and their transformation from priority attention to action to greater attention to facts and results; as has been said in the American reform, from red tape to results. On the other hand, Learco stressed a great deal, having strong reasons in this regard, the need for a state action for proceedings, precisely in the name of the neutrality of administrative action, which had to be even more guaranteed than its effectiveness. Of course, both of us agreed on the need for one and the other benchmark, but inevitably there was the problem of which to take first. Well, this knot isn't solved. In other words, the question of whether public administrations should evolve - as I said - towards common law and a greater orientation to the results and effectiveness of administrative action, or whether public administrations should be even more fully involved in a public beehive, in the beehive of administrative law, in the beehive of strictly neutral functions than citizens, who must never be subject to it. In this debate, which will continue and perhaps never end, Learco will not be with us, he will not participate directly in the political and scientific debate that will continue on these choices. Through, however, his parliamentary and academic work and through what he has left us, he will be with us and will still be useful to that search for the common good to which he has dedicated his whole life. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u21	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, it has already been ample, and certainly better than I will, commemorating the figure of Senator Saporito. I can only add - and I do so quietly, in the sense that I can not fail to what I strongly feel a duty - the personal memory of an incredibly lovable figure. Born in Scafati, elected in Umbria, he lived in Rome; but with that natural sign of being born in Campania he carried within political action a fake confusion. When he spoke, he tried to mislead the interlocutor, often changing the subject, but never losing sight of the central objective. And he did this with me too, just elected to this House (I came from the House and, at that time, was promoted by moving from the House to the Senate). I met the figure of Senator Saporito, who was Undersecretary to the public administration, and I fought against the Government, although I was part of the majority, a war to try to stabilize the precarious botanical gardens of Palermo and Florence. We tabled an amendment; in this case, I was authorized by President Schifani, whom I had as president of the Group and authoritative representative in the Assembly, to make it a reason for opposition to the Government and we ended up suspending the session and going to the government room to discuss what to do about that amendment, which posed some difficulty to the Executive, but which had a great local significance, both in Palermo and in Tuscany (for which I had involved Senator Mugnai and other Tuscan politicians). At a certain point, interspersing some Roman phrases, a little bells, misleading me from the goal and trying to confuse me, he told me that it was not the time to pose a problem that put the majority in trouble, while I stood still in my goal of getting something that I thought was right. I made it not only a matter of principle, but also a reason to be able, together with others, to abstain on the measure. We postponed the matter by mutual agreement and, in doing so, we got the Government's promise that that arrangement would be later approved. In the end, taking me aside, he said to me: But you, who are an engineer, what does it have to do with agriculture and botanical gardens? And I wanted to tell the fact with a certain vanity, because the character was this: not knowing me - and I had been informed about who he was: a person of great experience, one of the founders of National Alliance, who had made yes, together with Fisichella, Fiori and Ramponi, that national politics changed; had already been Undersecretary in Governments of the First Republic and, with his experience, tried to make a strong contribution to politics and the Government - he had punctually informed himself about that young senator who posed some difficulty. In addition to that outspoken confusion, it put a great deal of precision in trying to overcome the difficulty and achieve the objective of having the measure voted. He was a great character, a lovable, punctual person. The mutual knowledge and, for my part, the great esteem sealed in the following a relationship of which I honor to have been part and for which I honor to have received the friendship of Senator Saporito. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u24	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the commemoration you have wished to make at institutional level. Dear senators and senators, let us remember today Learco Saporito, a colleague of ours - he has been six times in this Chamber - a man of the institutions, a politician who has dedicated his life to the service of the country, with commitment and dedication. It was - as I have just said - a senator six times, four times with Christian Democracy and, in 2001 and 2006, with National Alliance. He was a man of government, Undersecretary for scientific research and university, with the Governments Goliath and De Mita, and Undersecretary for public administration in the second and third Berlusconi Governments. I had the pleasure of meeting him personally in 1999 (until 2001, when he was re-elected Senator), during my experience as Provincial Councillor, when he was appointed, by then President Silvano Moffa, Councillor for Social Services. And the Department of Social Services in the Province of Rome was, then, one of the tasks closest to the needs of people. I was at that time a young minority advisor who looked out of politics outside his territory, but I still remember the confrontation, the constructive dialogue that I managed to establish with Learcus, although starting from different positions, although the ground on which our roots were rooted was the same. I remember the many times we had to confront each other in the Commission or in this House or my visits to the Council. In addition to being always ironic and witty, he also had a paternal attitude with me: a person of experience who taught a young provincial councillor life and commitment in politics. And it is the same commitment that I find in many here present. Of him I appreciated the decisive but cordial ways, his pursuit of the common good, his living politics not as a personal fact, but as an organization of consensus to resolve and improve the quality of people's lives. And that is precisely what I want to remember today on behalf of the Democratic Party Group. Its interpretation of politics and the roles associated with it as an instrument and not as an end, even from different positions: this is the aspect that should unite us. This is what remains of our experience, even in this House, as in other institutions, once we are gone. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u27	MICHELONI (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak very briefly as President of the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad, to remind you that Senator Learco Saporito has been a point of reference for Italians abroad for years. What Senator Saporito has done has been an important commitment in favour of all Italians abroad and has always done so above and outside the political groups. And, in fact, he was still an honorary president of ANFE. As Senators of the Foreign College, but I believe like the whole organized and associative world of Italians abroad, we want to remember and associate ourselves with the pain of the family and thank Learco for all the commitment he has made to the Italian communities in the world. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u30	Matteoli (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you mentioned Learco Saporito - who, like me, knew him very well - in the best way possible, as did the previous Members. I would like to remind you of Learcus in particular two things. In 1994 there was a debate within the Italian right, the then Italian Social Movement, which led between the years 1994-1995 to close that party and the birth of the National Alliance. Learcus, along with Flowers, Rebecchini, Armani, Fisichella, Ramponi and many others, who came from different political experiences - as has already been mentioned - decided to join the National Alliance. And thanks also to them, thanks to characters such as Learco Saporito, who brought to its interior a very important contribution, the right, as a witness party, became a permanent governing party. As I said, he joined the National Alliance in 1995, never denying his origins. He had been part of the Christian Democracy for four legislatures, he had held positions of government. University and political professor, he was elected senator for Alleanza Nazionale in 2001 in the 14th legislature and in 2006 in the 15th legislature. I remember that in those years he dealt with the Government of civil service and became a point of reference not only for us as National Alliance, but for everyone, because he was really competent, he was a scholar and all the things he did studied before and then participated in the debates. It has always stood out for a great respect for the institutions. I would like to mention two things in particular: the first I have already stressed, now I am going to highlight the second. In the 15th legislature, Article 27 of the Constitution was amended, and with the introduction of the abolition of the death penalty (the Constitutions wanted the death penalty for the cases provided for by the military laws of war). Not everyone in our party agreed to vote for this abolition. Parliament decided to abolish it and, knowing my total aversion to the death penalty of any kind, which I had always supported within the party, we had long chats on this subject because, as I repeat, there was within the party who voted against this amendment. Learco was the rapporteur for that measure, and I believe that it is one of the things that we should remember most about him because it was very important to me, but I also believe for many of you. In 2008 it was not rebranded and I had the sad task of communicating it to him, because of the assignment I was then in my party. Of course, he was ill for what I was telling him, but he reacted with great dignity and civilization and never abandoned the party even after 2008, albeit not rebranded. I would like to extend our sincere condolences to the wife, children and family on behalf of the Forza Italia Group. It's not just a loss of family, it's for all of us. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u31	We renew to the family the condolences of the entire Assembly that has told so many episodes and many aspects of the intense life of Lefco Saporito.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u32	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on draft law No 2228 and documents XXIV. 56 and 59. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting, the rapporteur on draft law No 2228 carried out the oral report, the rapporteur on documents XXIV, Nos. He proposed that the Court should reply as follows:
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u33	We're asking for legal clearance.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u34	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10.15 a.m. and resumed at 10.37 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u35	The session is resumed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u36	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u37	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10:38 a.m. and resumed at 11:01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u38	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Verification of the quorum D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the joint debate on draft law No 2228 and documents XXIV, nos. 56 and 59 president. I put the question referred by Senator D'Alì to the vote. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u39	Madam President, Senators, this is the second time I have spoken about the European bill, the last was in July last year on European law 2014. The previous law had mixed elements between the tragic and the comic, evident for example in the combination of Article 9 on holiday packages for cruise tourists, and Article 10 on migrant travel. There were - I repeat - objectively comical elements: for example, the fundamental legislation that he had in order that chimneys could not be made of flammable material, and so on. This bill is objectively less tragic, which is positive, but it is dramatically comical. I am making a list of the fundamentals contained in the Government's text (it is clear that the amendments tabled by Parliament are on the sidelines): we are voting on a text containing rules on the labelling of oil and honey; VAT rules for basil, rosemary and fresh sage; VAT rules for risotto preparations; rules on the collection of truffles and rules on the protection of homeopathic wildlife (I honestly do not know, but I suppose that has been the subject of detailed consideration by the Government) and much more. I believe that in this text there is, downstream, a reflection of the structure of European legislation. In the Official Journal of the European Union 2015, for the normative part, we count 30,952 pages, extended by 1,930.47 square meters, 151 linear meters, more or less 150 divine comedies. This type of legislative production has objectively demencial characteristics, because never in history has a legislative body been so productive and I believe also strongly illegal. I invite Gozi excellence to pay attention to what I am about to say; it would also be useful for reflection. Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I'm taking notes. TREMONTI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Thank you. The European constitutional structure provides for the division of competences, preserved by the States, donated to the higher level of the Union and competitors. The criterion laid down in the Treaty on subsidiarity, defined by a specific protocol, should be applied to competing competences. Subsidiarity means that you only do above what you can't do equally well underneath. But do you think that it is in European constitutional logic that the discipline made above, but transposed below, on honey? I believe that this is not only proof of the fundamental elements of the European structure, but also of illegal elements. We are in total violation of the rule of the Treaty which provides for subsidiarity: everything that can be done at State level is done at State level, and above, only by way of exception, only what can best be done at Union level. The exception, in a Leviathanic and absolutistic logic, has become the rule, so much so that here we are applying rules that descend from above extended on an infinite catalogue of contents: the exact opposite of the exception. I have heard here the President-in-Office of the Council, on the one hand, ironic against European bureaucrats, on the other hand (and it is objectively curious and paradoxical), boasting that he will do his utmost to comply with European legislation. Since the accumulation of posts is not forbidden, I wonder whether bureaucratic or stupider bureaucrats attacking bureaucrats on the one hand and boasting that they have followed the content of the bureaucrats themselves with zeal and precision. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and LN-Aut]] I would like to conclude with a reflection which, apart from irony, is actually dramatic. We are at the end of the European structure: if this is Europe, I can understand that the elites - elite is used to say - more or less cosmopolitan or bizarre they wander like sleepwalks in the palace, but in reality everything is now directed towards a dramatic and irreversible crisis. It is not the people's fault, but it is the fault of Europe and also of the governments that support this Europe. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mario Ferrara.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u40	We greet the students and students of the inclusive Institute of Silea, in the province of Treviso. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u41	Madam President, before I go into the matter, I would like to speak on the order of business. I was in the middle of a general debate as a sixth speaker, and I asked Mr Bencini first to be able to replace me. However, I have noticed that Mr Tremonti has spoken before all: I do not understand the logic of the order of intervention. I know who signed up to speak this morning has become the last one, but the last one has become the first. Anyway, we'll clear that up. Madam President, I would now like to return to the subject of the debate. The bill today to our attention, which the Government presented last February 3, is part of a responsible and laborious path, carried out up to this moment by the Italian legislator to resolve the widest number of disputes pending. The positive fact is that the infringement procedures against our country are decreasing. In fact, the number of procedures falls to 80, 62 of which are for infringement of Union law and 18 for failure to transpose directives. In addition, the European Commission has also ordered the filing of two EU Pilot cases which have already been closed negatively, which could soon have led to infringement proceedings. The arguments contained in the measure are therefore heterogeneous, both by subject matter and by competence. This, however, must make us understand well how European decisions - in all their questionable forms - affect the political, social and economic life of the country and in our daily lives: one example is the directives whose content affects health, nutrition, freedom of movement, as well as justice. It is no coincidence that the conformity of Community law with national law - without prejudice to the hierarchy of sources - has the dual function, on the one hand, of adapting the legislation of the individual Member States and, on the other hand, of increasing the quality standards of European citizens. I believe that this positive role of the European Union is very often forgotten and, instead, should be better valued. As I mentioned, however, in view of the diversification of the content, I will concentrate on Chapter VII, which contains provisions on energy, not only because I have dealt with it in the European Commission, but above all because at international level we have finally reached an awareness on the subject. It is worth remembering that the development of European energy policy is mainly due to two reasons: on the one hand it stems from the fragmentation of energy competence, with the absence of a single and general legal basis in the Treaty of the European Union and, on the other hand, from the transformation of the energy position of the Member States, which, following the energy transition from coal to oil in recent decades, have been found by energy-exporting countries to be importing countries. The path of European energy law has been outlined through a system of expanding the material competences of the Union, which, more generally, is a significant feature of the evolving dynamism of Union law. However, the Union's energy competence develops around a historic core of antitrust legislation in the field of energy, where further profiles of the energy regulation have emerged, affecting environmental protection and the protection of energy security. The combination of objectives for protecting competition, protecting the environment and safeguarding the security of energy supply has created the problem of identifying the correct legal basis, i.e. the eligibility of energy acts adopted on a double legal basis, namely national and Community. This is why the exercise of power over energy has always been a fundamental element of a state's economic and industrial policy. In the field of European and international relations, it is even more decisive as it becomes a stabilising element and a strategic instrument for ensuring the competitiveness of economic systems. Analyzing, therefore, the legal dimension of European energy policy means filtering, from the heterogeneous set of elements relating to energy regulation, also aspects that have a direct or indirect impact on Union law. The fact that European legislation entrusts important responsibilities to national regulators in the area of consumer protection, the promotion of fair prices and the introduction of simple tools to exercise the right of choice of their supplier and to resolve disputes cannot be underestimated. It therefore agrees that the legal problems relating to the discipline of the energy sector are essentially linked to the separation of competences, rights and responsibilities between the Union and the Member States: the distribution of energy competence moves within a process that is changing, still far from a definitive systematisation. Specifically, Article 28 lays down provisions for the proper implementation of the third energy package. In fact, already Law No 96 of 2010, namely the Community law 2009 (Room Act 2449), had delegated the Government to the transposition of Directive No 72 of 2009 on the internal market in electricity and Directive No 73 of 2009 on the internal market in natural gas. These delegations, subsequently implemented by Legislative Decree No. 93 of 2011, set out the objectives of increasing security of supply, increasing competition in the internal market for electricity and gas, ensuring effective separation between gas companies that own and operate transport networks and companies that use transport networks themselves for the import and sale of gas, as well as to better protect consumers and in particular vulnerable customers. These assessments show that a fully functioning European market should allow electricity to move freely where it is most needed, required and assessed, to take full advantage of cross-border competition and to provide the right signals and incentives to properly steer investment. In addition, it should be ensured that electricity is distributed solely on the basis of market signals. However, at present, this is not always the case. While the coupling of markets, where it has been applied, has led to a greater correlation between wholesale prices, the absolute value of prices differs significantly also in neighbouring markets and price differentials do not contract. The regulatory adaptations contained in Article 28 during the parliamentary process in the Commission - which are both acceptable and necessary - demonstrate the legislator's full attention to fill gaps and different interpretations of Directives 72 and 73 of 2009: in particular, the relations between the Electricity, Gas and Water Authority and the Ministry of Economic Development in defining the conditions for access to cross-border infrastructure have been clarified, as well as the ultimate aim of safeguarding the value of the independence and discretion of the regulatory bodies with respect to the public administration employed by the National Executive. Moreover, the interpretative corrections contained in paragraph 2 amending Article 22 of Legislative Decree No 164 of 23 May 2000, where the obligations relating to public service and consumer protection are reiterated, with greater effectiveness on the concept of vulnerable customer whose definition had been entrusted to the individual Member States. The concept of vulnerable customer, which can refer to energy poverty and, among other things, to the prohibition of interruption of electricity supply to these customers during critical periods, means that not only the rights and obligations relating to supplies but also the protection of final customers in isolated areas will be guaranteed. Therefore, in the light of the European request, the substitution of the attribute "vulnerables" with "protected" is worthy, so now we are talking about protected users. In conclusion, the reflection that I hope will be shared by the whole of this House is that European citizens are not only subject to constraints - which I first recognise are sometimes restrictive and stringent - but also recipients of growth and development for a better quality of life.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u42	Senator Orellana, I would just like to point out that Senator Tremonti is part of the LAG Group whose number of members is lower than that of your Group and therefore had the right to speak before you. Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, as you are also aware of this House, there are several burdens arising from our membership of the European Union. Among these, those regulated by the law of 24 December 2012, n. 234, including precisely the so-called approval of European law, through which it should be periodically adapted the internal law, remedying the sanctions that have been imposed on Italy too often for delays or omissions in adapting to European directives and regulations. It is also well known that since 2008, a pre-litigation phase has been built with the EU Pilot mechanism on a computer basis to increase communication between the European Commission and the Member States so that faster exchange of information can ensure compliance with European regulatory obligations without the need to initiate dispute procedures and the resulting sanctions. 11:19 a.m. (Followed by Mr Molinari). European law 2015 is, therefore, a point of emergence and resolution of the shortcomings of our country, above all - let me be allowed - of a political class that has believed that in Europe we could continue to do interests of low shop, not unlike the way we did in our own borders. A political class that often - when it was going to - considered Brussels a pleasure trip, rather than the decisive place to represent and protect the rights, duties and interests of the Italian people in the Community. The 22 articles of the draft law in question are intended to close two infringement proceedings and 9 EU Pilot cases, as well as to remedy a state aid cooperation procedure. The sectors concerned are varied and, although we do not want to give the current Government all the responsibilities in cases where the draft law in question has interventions (also because the greater responsibilities are to be attributed to those we have sent to Europe), we seem to be faced with a renunciationary Executive, especially in some of the cases EU Pilot where we continue on the path of respect for the indications of the Commission, without keeping the point in defence of the interests of the Italian citizens. There are areas where we have every reason to oppose decisions, as they are anchored in European principles even greater than that of free trade and which are at the basis of the very existence of the European Union, such as transparency and proper information to citizens. I am sorry that Mr Gozi is not paying attention, partly because I believe that what I am saying could be useful to the excellent work he is doing in the Community. This is especially true with regard to some of the articles that do not remedy sanctions, but take action on EU Pilot cases that limit the values I have indicated. The first three articles, on which I have tabled deleterious amendments which I call for a vote, indicate a renunciation of the attitude that this Government continues to hold in the agri-food sector, which should instead be the international pride of our Made in Italy, also celebrated in magnanimity with the recent Expo. Article 1 on the labelling of olive oils resolves the case EU Pilot 4632/13/AGRI, on the provisions on the quality and transparency of the virgin olive oil chain. The provision intervenes on the labelling of olive oil, after that, by Law No 161 of 30 October 2014 (European Law 2013- bis), it had been rightly provided by the Italian legislator that the indication of the origin of mixtures of olive oils originating in more than one Member State of the European Union or a third country..., must be printed... with different and more evident chromatic relevance compared to the background, other indications and sales denomination. In the Commission's view, however, the indication of origin in a different colour given by this Parliament is discriminatory against other indications and contrary to the rules on readability and free competition. In point (b), action was taken to repeal the provision for a minimum period for the conservation of olive oils. Article 2 contains a provision on the labelling of honey, this time, to regulate the case EU Pilot 7400/15/AGRE, in which the European Commission contested non-compliance with Directive 2001/110/EC. On honey, the Italian rule that this law amends provides, for packages imported from other Member States of honey harvested in several Member States or third countries, that the countries of origin in which the honey was harvested must be indicated. Finally, the last article on which I referred, Article 3, concerns the labelling of foodstuffs. This is the case of EU Pilot 5938/13/SNCO, on the provision of food information to consumers. Our rule, on which we now want to intervene, defines as the country of origin of the product the place of last substantial transformation and, at the same time, the place of origin of the primary ingredient. This contrasts - as the European Commission has to say - with Regulation No 1133/2005, which states instead that the country of origin of the product is the country of origin defined by the Community Customs Code, that is, the place of last substantial processing. I wonder why we should give in without fighting with the European Commission's interested EU Pilots, when it is clear that each of the above rules is inspired by the protection of the consumer's reasons, rather than by an evolved consumer (such as the Italian consumer), and is respectful of another fundamental principle in a democracy, not only food, which is that of accurate information, also to protect health. These are rules inspired by transparency, as an indispensable tool of the consumer and in general of the citizen to make a conscious choice, and of norms that come from experience, because often the failure to report the country of origin of the prevailing agricultural material used in the preparation of products is accompanied by the deceptive presence of Italian trademarks or distinctive signs (as in the case of Parmesan), which induce us to identify in our country the real origin of the product; they are therefore rules that counter the counterfeiting. These are standards inspired by the common sense of a people, ours, which is at the forefront of quality production and consumption; standards whose preventive character is able to represent the only and only brake on mass food sophistication and trash food, of which it is evident that some industry concerned wants to make a paladin. It is clear, and emerges from every independent investigation by consumer associations, that the minimum standards coming from Europe on the quality of agri-food production are increasingly lowering the protection of European consumers, including from the point of view of health. And we, who boast of our PGI and PDO products, will be - I fear - severely penalized if we do not defend with our nails and teeth our quality productions. Who knows then what will happen in the blackberries of the approval of the famous TTIP. The quality of life and health cannot be sacrificed on the altar of economic principles and profits hidden behind the so-called liberalisation of the market and goods, if not mediated - as is written in our Constitution and the European Treaties - by other values, to protect and defend the citizen and health. That is why we cannot be satisfied with the choices made by the Government in this draft European law and with the solutions proposed in these cases of EU Pilot. I therefore call on this Senate, unfortunately inattentive, not to vote on this bill and I call on the Government to revise it, although I say this to Undersecretary Gozi that the consequences of not approving it would be complicated for our country and force us to defend ourselves before the European Court. But if we don't do it now and on these issues, when will we do it? These are issues - I am sure - on which the Government would have all the support of Parliament and the country and which President Renzi could proudly show - this time yes, rightly - in all the European fora and on behalf of all the Italian people. [[Applause from Senators Fucksia and De Pietro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u44	Senator Tarquinio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u45	Mr President, I was part of the 14th For many years - and then I have moved on to another Commission - I know very well how important and determined it is, and how well guided, with moderation and seriousness, by President Vannino Chiti. However, what emerges again this time? Already the first time (I was the rapporteur on the European delegation law) we approved the rule concerning animals, which has not been done for four or five years for political begs, and we avoided the ever-present fines coming from the European Union. There is, however, another incredible fact: beyond the optimism of some previous rapporteur, we still have very high infringements, both as regards the application of treaties and the introduction of rules. We have already paid 150 million euros for the failure to clean up landfills, for those that have been considered state aid in Chioggia and Venice and for some rules on training-work, and many other sentences are imposed on this country. There is a European Union that, however, when you do not adapt, tires (and even too much) and often we do not defend ourselves as we should, while admitting our faults; in fact, we, the local authorities and the regions, blame on the reclamation of landfills. We are also about to suffer incredible blood loss from the problem of waste water purification plants. It is a bloodshed on which the Court of Justice is about to rule, which will be enormous if we do not defend ourselves properly. It is all a paradox, because we have about EUR 3.2 billion allocated to these works, but not even a competition has been done for years and everything goes into the silence of local authorities and regions. It's amazing, it's crazy. It is true that tariffs must be adjusted in relation to waste water, purification plants and everything else, but it is also unacceptable that 3.2 billion should be abandoned there and that nothing should be done. At the same time, we will suffer fearful tiredness. If you look at all the violations of the regulations that we have and the accounts are scary to see the amount that we could achieve if we were convicted. We are talking about figures, over the years, up to three billion euros: this is incredible, because perhaps with those amounts we could solve some of the problems of the Fornero law. In addition, absurd things happen, such as the history of oil. We take Tunisia's oil: let's not say we don't have to take it, but this wonder is getting more and more. As a group we had presented - and I always insist on this, as the Undersecretary for Agriculture and Deputy Minister Olivero know - rules on labelling of products, and therefore also of oil: we proposed a safety label, made by the State Polygraph Institute; the answer is always no. This is an absurd response from the government, because it hides something that is not clear. Why should the quantities of oil purchased and those placed on the market not be clear? Why should we allow adulterated oil to be placed on the market? That is the reality. Why do we have old rules in Europe, which in practice do not require DOP and IGT oil to indicate where it comes from exactly and what it is? Why do we have to pass on to the producers the indication of the deadlines for the oil (it has incredible), giving them responsibility and playing on the skin of consumers? These are things that you can't understand at all. On this there is the total lack of government action and presence. I will always insist on labelling (for oil and other products): why not? Why should you not check what is purchased and how much is produced? We are accomplices to whom and to what? Why do we continue to destroy all our milk producers, who have to sell at 29 cents, when the cost for them is 40 cents per liter, with a thousand stables closed, almost all in the mountains? We risk losing 32,000 jobs; it is something incredible! But let us allow milk to arrive in Italy - say - at 20 cents. He's got incredible how we destroy our economy. You don't say a word about this, but you have incredible. Beyond everything, these norms can also be made, but so - said Senator Molinari - it takes a little 'an act of courage. Do we realize the difficulties and responsibilities that we will face? We have always heard that this government would punch in Europe, but I think we take our fists face-to-face every day in every respect, and that also applies to so many other things. This is the reality that we have, and it becomes almost absurd what we are seeing: our chasing often absurd situations; our not being able to solve internal problems, such as those of waste water and purifiers; our inability to stubbornly defend everything that is produced in Italy, not defending our producers and everything else; our renunciation to prevent there being falsification and adulteration of products because we do not want to adopt safety labelling. It is clear that this attitude also comes from parts of the world of production, which buy for 600,000 and produce as if they had bought for 1,200,000. Where do these products come from? The question applies to tomato and many other things, but it does not seem to interest anyone; we have to keep quiet, but it is not possible. As we can see, our agriculture is increasingly on its knees and for years we have been defending little of everything that belongs to us: this task is up to the Government, it would be up to this House; unlike the French, we are not able to defend everything that is our agriculture. Italian agriculture dies in favour of French, German and Spanish agriculture: this is the real figure, but we do absolutely nothing. For this reason and for those few things that could be said in ten minutes certainly our vote will not be in favour, with the greatest regret. But it's time to put a stop to it. Italy in this Europe, as far as I am concerned, is happy with it, but if Europe is only a stepmother then we can no longer stay. I know it is a great word, but it is often our fault: our inability to defend what is ours and what is right, to defend our consumers and our producers, to defend those who have had the courage to stay in Italy and not to go abroad. That's not possible, honestly. A little courage, a little patriotic love - it must not seem like a word out of date - is what is lacking. Where is Italianity? The others call from morning to evening, and what are we calling for? What is right, what is ours, our quality. But we don't do anything to defend her. It is something incredible that sincerely leaves us bewildered. I am certainly not a child, but seeing the descent of this country with respect to its own identity has some incredible, as well as not seeing our natural wealth defending and seeing it more and more impoverished, bending its head over other European partners, as we are bowing it also in other things (then we will talk about it). Let us see how France and Germany greet us with regard to their close interests. We should be those who are always open to the world; they are richer than us and we are always open to them: it is not possible. Let us defend what is right, what is ours, with our nails even if without exasperated nationalisms. However, we cannot allow anyone to put their feet on us, because this is absolutely not sustainable. The government does its duty and on the security labels made by the State Polygraph Institute, which is 100% state-owned and certainly not private, go ahead. I ask this question once again: why not? There are weird things behind this, no. By announcing the vote against, I shall close my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u46	Mr President, in this half-desert Chamber we are discussing the 2015 European law, to which the Government has also added 2016, a little to move forward and with this escamotage to justify the delays of the past. So we modify the titles of the laws to say that everything is in place: a technique now tested by the Renzi Government. The important thing is that the cover, the one written above the law, is convincing. If what's behind it is totally hollow, empty, it doesn't even exist, who cares; the important thing is that the tweet starts, that people make sure and that the whole message goes to its destination. Mr President, since President Renzi has also become accustomed to media aspects, let us begin this general debate on the European Union, namely on European law 2016, with two contrasting and parallel images, a mirror of the Government itself. "Lobby continues" is the survey published on "Espresso" this week. It is published; it is not an electoral manifesto. The investigation is based on the data provided by the sampled exporting producers. Dealers. Brokers. One by one, here are the pressure groups that have privileged relations with Palazzo Chigi. President, on the other hand, there is a special issue published by "Panorama" a few weeks ago in the section "Mondo" which is titled: "Mogherini: profession anti-Italiana". These two figures should be central to our relationship with the European Union: President of the Council of Ministers and High Representative for European foreign policy, for which the country has politically shed blood because Renzi has made us renounce key positions in order to have this figure in Europe that had to protect the interests of Italy. Mr President, this article of inquiry started with a simple consideration: what are the actions of Minister Mogherini in the European Union? I quote and read: It was you who proposed last September to grant Tunisia extra shares of exportable olive oil tax-free in the European Union. Congratulations. With the votes of the Democratic Party, she placed 70,000 tons of Tunisian oil in the European market. It is said that this is done in the name of cooperation and because Tunisia must be helped because otherwise it is attacked by ISIS. What's that got to do with anything? We're talking about a country that doesn't defend its commercial interests. All European countries would open their portfolios if they wanted to support Tunisia. In fact, it is only the Italian market for olive oil producers that will have the worst damage. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That must be said, but if we say so, we are obviously the party opponents. The Minister of Agricultural Policy Martina, whom we would like to see in the Chamber every now and then (there is undersecretary Gozi), goes to talk shows and catwalks but never appears here. Otherwise, you should give us an answer to what the General Confederation of Agriculture wrote on 21 March. It calls on him, the members of the Committee on Agriculture and other Members of the European Parliament to stop, because with what they are doing, introducing these tonnes of olive oil into the European Union, it will harm Italian producers. We're not saying it, we're saying it, we're saying it, we're saying it, we're saying it, we're saying it, we're saying it, we're saying it, we're saying it, we're saying it. We speak for those who struggle to produce the Made in Italy that the Government is demolishing. Let's go to the content. What is the point of Italy's membership of the European Union if it is not in the interests of Italy itself and Europeans? That question would have to be asked. Certainly from reading this measure comes a bizarre, ridiculous and laughable image of Italy's membership of the European Union. I only read some of the titles of the 38 articles we will be voting on. We will talk about the labelling of olive oil (injury, as we will explain later, of Italian producers), the labelling of honey (injury to Italian producers), the lack of indication of the country of origin in food (injury to Italian products), things on which the Government, instead of starting a tough battle in Europe, does not blink and simply adapts because Europe asks us to do so. I would like Minister Martina to answer for these things, but obviously one thing is the reality narrated, another is the facts, to which Minister Martina escapes. Mr President, the measure talks about the increase in VAT on risotto preparations and to cover a different taxation on gambling. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: We are talking about the taxation of European students' vehicles in Italy, the VAT rates of basil, rosemary and fresh sage, the VAT rate on risotto preparations (of course increasing). How to miss a specific rule on truffles? The measure also contains recommendations from the National Railway Safety Agency for provisions on the nature of homeopathic wildlife. That is why we are participating in the European Union. How far away is the European Union of Adenauer, De Gasperi and Schuman! It's got nothing to do with it. This is a melancholy of bureaucracy and regulation that everything is gritty, with respect to which we would like a strong government action to protect our products, which are also made in Europe, because when a product is made in Italy, it also means quality for Europe itself. In the measure under consideration, however, we play on the contrary: we must destroy the product made in Italy, so that those who trade and do not produce can sell their products of low quality by mixing them with ours, who instead have excellence in production. That is the point of the measure under consideration. After his approval, in fact, there will no longer be any distinction between Italian honey and that from other countries, but there will simply be an indication that it is honey made from mixtures from the European Union. Those who do these things have no interest in quality production, but in selling quantities, which is very different from a policy that looks after the interest of the producer and the consumer. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We should talk about this for hours, Mr President, but I fear that in the newspapers we will only find puffs, because telling this reality of Europe does not create interest. The paradox is that, on the other hand, we find ourselves with a Europe that releases three billion and then three more to keep Erdogan at bay; with citizens who lose their jobs and a European system that no longer recognizes itself. It is clear that Europe raises the borders between its members, because there is mistrust between one country and another; in fact, when a country like Italy is not reliable, others protect themselves, as happens when a thief enters the neighbor's house and the first thing that comes into mind to any citizen is to close the door well. These situations lead us to say that what we are fulfilling, Mr President, is a mere bureaucratic function which has nothing to do with the sense of Europe that belongs to its foundation and to the same European roots. I begin to conclude my speech in a laconic way, with great regret for the limited scope of these measures, and reaffirming that our Government is not protecting Italian interests. In its 2014 programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union, the Government wrote that, as far as agriculture was concerned, it intended first of all to promote the stabilization of farmers' incomes, including in particular that of the production and marketing of olive oil and that of the wine sector. We have read in these hours the content of the TTIP Treaty, whose negotiations are carried out in secret between the European Union and the United States. In that text everything is written except for this type of action, instead the Government in its 2016 programmatic report writes that it will undertake to give rapid implementation to this type of commercial regulation. No, Mr President, we will oppose this, because it is at stake not only the health of the citizens, but also the very existence of our citizens as producers, consumers and as Italian citizens before Europe. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u47	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet students and professors from the Higher Institute of Secondary Education (Alessandro Volta) in Aversa, in the province of Caserta, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, under the generic heading "Provisions for the fulfilment of the obligations arising from Italy's membership of the European Union - European law 2015" - Europe, in fact, strikes a severe blow to both our farmers and our consumers. For a long time, this has not proved to be the Europe of the peoples who wanted our founding fathers, but rather a European Union that looks out for uncontrolled finance, for policies that massacre the millions of European citizens, but not for the few global multinationals to which it spreads red carpets. The sharp increase in inequalities over the past thirty years in the major capitalist countries can indeed be identified as the ultimate cause of the ongoing economic crisis. The stagnation or decline of real wages, in all cases their persistent tendency not to keep up with the increases in labour productivity, have meant that the increases in total income that occurred year after year in the main economies flowed to the wealthiest class of the population, further tending to focus within it in the richest subgroups. The depressive effects on wages are the most obvious and translate for the most developed economies into a virtually unlimited low-price job offer. Even when it comes to low skilled labour, the impact of the phenomenon does not remain limited to the lower levels of the wage scale, but impacts strongly on the whole workforce. Germany, a strong country of the Union, effectively leads the policy of the ECB. Everywhere in Europe governments persist in the use of austerity policies consisting of cuts in the social state and essential public services. Although it is openly recognised that these policies will cause significant falls in levels of activity in the coming years, it is said that they will not fail to ensure the recovery of a stable growth process. Europe is asking for it! We constantly hear ourselves say: The banking system is solid and risk-free (so Padoan in October 2014). Today instead Padoan says: More stock exchange is needed, a European Monetary Fund with resources from the ESM is assessed. How can we trust this European Union, which is in the hands of a Commission of High Finance Executors, which expresses a policy of trade treaties as if they were known in the margins of a suburban office? How can we trust a European Union that claims to have received from the 28 governments a protection mandate from which it must not derogate? Not trusting is imperative. Every time we lower our defenses, mistakes are added to the States and our interests, in our case, especially in the field of agriculture, which is now ravaged by agreements and provisions. To standardise the indications of origin on the labels of producers of blends of olive oil, honey and agricultural raw materials, because the European Commission considers discriminatory and non-harmonising in terms of legibility, increases the difference between those who respect the rules of quality of the product and those who do not. So you risk leveling down, and not rewarding excellence. The search for consumer protection is thus relegated to the market and no longer to the State, leaving the competence of product control, knowing well how much the global market to which we are accustomed, has only the logic of maximum protection of profit and little protection of quality. So we continue, once again to provide oxygen to the spectrum of leveling globalization. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u49	Senator Gambaro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indisputable that our country's membership of the European Union entails obligations for us which we must fulfil. We also know that this text is based on the need to prevent infringement proceedings against Italy. However, there is a need to reflect - as my fellow Members have already pointed out before me - on the need that compliance with European obligations cannot and should not become a supine and uncritical acceptance of rules which, by intervening in an important way on our productive fabric, risk being particularly harmful. In many parts of this House there has been a commitment made by many parliamentarians in the defence of Made in Italy, in the defence of a brand that, conceptually, is a sign of quality and production seriousness in the world. At a time when consumers are increasingly concerned about the invasion of products, agricultural and food species, coming from foreign countries (of which the origin is not clear, neither the protocols of production and cultivation, nor the traceability), and at a time when the demand for food protection becomes ever stronger, I believe it is necessary for us to stimulate and urge the Government to put in place with the European Commission a stronger and more incisive interlocation, that does not discount on the need to protect Italian citizens, not only on the authenticity of the products they buy, but also on the awareness and truthfulness of the information that concerns the products that arrive on our markets. With regard to the provisions relating to the supply chain of virgin olive oils, for example, we note that the text we are examining certainly provides that the indication of the origin of the mixtures of olive oils must be printed at an obvious point, such as to be visible, legible and indelible, not hidden or obscured or limited, and yet we cannot but say that the most evident chromatic relevance is deleted, present in the internal legislation, which instead would help the consumer to immediately focus the origin of the oil and perhaps direct it towards the purchase of an Italian product, on whose quality and on whose control we may rely. The problem is that of adapting the existing internal rules to European legislation. The European Commission argued that the indication of origin in a different colour than that of other indications, rather than ensuring a level playing field for industry and providing more complete information to consumers, is discriminatory against the remaining indications and contrary to harmonised rules on readability. I have to say that for Europe the principle of competition for industry ends up being prevalent in relation to the need for consumers to buy food as important as olive oil is becoming more and more aware. As we say, we favour the interests of industry over that of citizens and consumers. But the same could be said for the provisions on the labelling of honey. Here, too, Italy has been formally referred to by the European Commission as regards the labelling of honey. The case was caused by some administrative seizures of honey packages marketed in Italy but coming from other Member States, on whose label the generic diction of the mixture of honey originating in and not originating in the EC was indicated, instead of the analytical indication of the individual countries of origin in which the honey was harvested. We have been formally challenged to have made compulsory the analytical indication of the country (s) of origin of honey on the label of the respective packaging, going beyond what established by European legislation. With Article 2 of this draft law, Italy is called to remedy the case referred to and it is clarified that, in respect of honey produced in other Member States and placed on the market, there is no obligation to indicate the country of origin. This would avoid damaging the principle of free movement of goods within the single market. Therefore, in addition to the fulfilment of the obligations that are required of us today, it is necessary to call into question certain principles at European level and to make the needs of our country weigh much more heavily than they can fall into a state of awe and an attitude of almost resignation than the things that are decided beyond. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Casaletto and Mazzoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u51	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u52	Chapter VIII of the European Law 2015 contains provisions on compensation for victims of violent intentional crime in implementation of Directive No 80 of 2004. The aim of this Directive is to ensure that victims of an intentional violent crime receive fair and adequate compensation for the damage suffered, regardless of the place - within the European Union, but different from the place of residence - where such events have occurred. Italy has implemented the directive with Legislative Decree No. 204 of 2007, on the impulse of the infringement procedure initiated by the Commission against our country for the failure to adopt, after 1 January 2006, any implementing measures and concluded with a sentence. However, the measures provided for in the measure were considered not entirely appropriate by the European Commission. The legislative decree of 2007, in fact, did not establish a comprehensive national system of compensation for victims of crime, considering adequate the compensation and compensation systems already provided by the law for certain types of crime (such as those of a mafia or terrorist nature) and not, instead, extending the national system of compensation to any qualifying crime. Furthermore, the question of the partial transposition of Directive 2004/40/EC has also emerged at national level, where there have been two divergent legal guidelines regarding the possibility of obtaining such compensation in cases involving Italian nationals and victims of crimes committed on Italian territory, i.e. in the absence of an element of transnationality. In essence, Italy has only partially transposed this Directive, i.e. only for the part relating to cross-border offences, or where the offence is committed in a Member State other than that of the victim's residence. It is paradoxical that the Fund for the victims of violence in Italy is not intended for Italians - or even Italians - but only for foreigners. Just think of the terrible case of Chiara Insidious Monda, massacred by beatings by the boyfriend and exited from coma after many months. She is a 21-year-old girl who, after leaving the hospital, will have to go and stay in a kind of facility - similar to a hospice, let's say - along with Alzheimer's patients, who have nothing to do with Chiara's pathology. Chiara is totally at the expense of her father, who will obviously not be able to guarantee her daughter, reduced as a vegetable, the enormous support she needs, enjoying the only accompanying allowance now recognized in Chiara; just as her executioner, not being wealthy, has condemned Chiara more than once to a unfortunately cruel destiny. In particular, Articles 29, 30, 31 and 32 contain the right to compensation in favour of victims of violent intentional crime, the conditions for access and the content of the application and the relevant fund. In this respect, I would like to take advantage of this time of debate to highlight those aspects of the draft law under consideration which, in my view, need to be reviewed in order to extend the meshes of compensation referred to in Chapter VIII. In particular, compensation paid by the State, granted to the victim of an offence committed violently to the person, must be fair and appropriate, in order to allow for the effective repair of the damage, property and non-patrimonial, suffered by the victim and not only bestowed on him for the recasting of medical and welfare costs. Compensation should also be paid where the victim, a person offended or harmed by the crime, except where the offender has remained unknown, has been established as a civil party in the forms provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure, if he has not been able to obtain compensation for the damage, property and non-patrimony, as the offender of the violent intentional offences is irretrievable, if the limitation of the offence has taken place, or if it has been found to be incompetent as a result of the fruitless experiment of the enforcement action against him. The text in question, on the other hand, provides that compensation shall be paid if the victim has already unsuccessfully brought an action against the offender, in order to obtain compensation for the damage from the person obliged by an irrevocable conviction or a conviction as a interim order, unless the offender has remained unknown. In this way, however, compensation is limited, as is a narrowing, which is hoped to be eliminated, the condition under which the victim must be entitled to an annual income, resulting from the last declaration, not higher than that provided for in the admission to legal aid. When a woman or anyone else has been harmed, I do not believe that the assets or income possessed can interact with the possibility of receiving or not receiving compensation for such damage. Chapter VIII provides that the claim for compensation shall be lodged within 60 days of the decision defining the judgment in order to be unknown to the offender, or from the last act of unsuccessful enforcement. In this respect, I believe that the application should generally be submitted within the prescribed period of five years. Finally, the Compensation Fund for Victims should not constitute, as provided for in Article 32 of the European Act in comment, a part of the Rotation Fund for solidarity with victims of mafia crimes, extortive claims and usury. On the other hand, the Fund for compensation for victims of violent intentional crime should be set up separately at the Ministry of Justice, with specific features that I will present during the amendment phase. This law can give us the opportunity to respond more effectively to the damage suffered by many women who are victims of violence. Of course, the compensation they may receive does not cancel or cancel the damage suffered but can help to face a path of personal reconstruction and reintegration into a normal life. A separate chapter deserves, then, the speech on the need to put in place a series of attitudes in order to prevent the feminicide, which unfortunately continues to have very high numbers in our country, although it is a democratic and learned country but evidently with little culture and little respect, especially for women. [[Applause from Senator Maurizio Romani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u53	Senator Sacconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u54	Mr President, I shall confine my remarks to Article 8 of the measure before us, which concerns a subject of high sensitivity to our economy and, above all, to the growth of competitive capacity in the tertiary sector, which has often been determined by extrapolation from more complex companies producing goods or services, and which, because of this laborious extrapolation, has also resulted in mechanisms of high inefficiency. The Government's proposal, which is based on a judgment of the European Court of Justice, would like to classify all the changes of contract as transfers of branch of company, with the consequence of the full continuity of all the factors of enterprise and of all the positions, even debtors, towards third parties who come from the previous contract, with the consequence of consolidating the inefficiencies that, as I have just mentioned, characterized the first phase of tertiaryization of our economy. It is enough to think of local public transport in order to be aware of the need not only for activities aimed at overcoming direct management by local public administrations but for contracts that favour proposals of discontinuity compared to present inefficiency, i.e. proposals characterized by high levels of efficiency, in order to bring back the same local public transport in the context of performing activities that do not deliver, as today happens, continuous accumulation of public debt. The ruling of the Government, moreover, held true to local public transport and its final arrangement told us that, where material elements make an important contribution to the exercise of the activity, the absence of the transfer by the old to the new contractor of a significant level of such elements that are indispensable for the proper functioning of the entity in question, must lead us to believe that the latter does not retain its identity. It follows that, in a situation such as that in the main proceedings, Directive 77/187/EC is not applicable in the absence of any significant material transfer between the old and the new contractor. We do not understand then how the proposal of the Government consists in a radical modification of the law Biagi, that I remember had that in any case the changes of contract do not represent cession of branch of company. That claim was probably excessively rigid and, however, would now be replaced by an implicit recognition that each change of contract ends, on the contrary, in order to constitute a sale of a business branch. I have first described the main consequence of this in terms of the indefinite continuation of conditions of overall inefficiency in the management of service activities. I also add the specific one of a marginal contractor who loses the contract and who, with it, could cease its activity. This would be entitled to discharge on the new contractor the non-payment of all wages and contributions to workers in accordance with the joint responsibility which would result in the qualification of the change of contract as a transfer of branch of company. My proposal is therefore that a regulation be more consistent with the European judgment on which the Government's proposal was based, replacing the current Article 8 with a new text which considers the possible presence of discontinuities that determine a new identity as a company. In such cases, the acquisition of staff already employed in the contract following the takeover of a new contractor may not constitute a transfer of a company or part of a company, just as the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union concludes. I would like to point out that my proposal, which specifically refers, as in the judgment, to tangible business assets, is shared by the social partners. Never in the internal debate of the institutions or the social partners had the problem been raised today proposed by the new text of the Government. I believe that, at a time when the prospect of a European infringement would seem to force us to correct the current discipline, we must take into account the views of the parties and our experience, at least in this positive respect, of sharing between the parties themselves. Adhering to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the judge's appreciation should be restored to the difference between the genuine change of contract and - instead - the mere transfer of company or part of it, indicating the elements of discontinuity, in material goods and in the organizational method, which must guide the appreciation of the same jurisprudence. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u55	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u56	Mr President, we are here discussing the so-called draft European law 2015 which, as we recall, according to Law No 234 of 24 December 2012, allows us to resolve disputes with the European Union, however, due, always and in any case, to poor management of the underlying phase of drafting European legislation, to which our Government (I refer to the present, past and - hopefully not - future governments) is unable to participate constructively. Moreover, on this point, I would ask Mr Gozi to answer one of my questions which he promised to answer six months ago, all the acts of the ascending phase are secreted to the national parliaments, which should instead contribute to their elaboration. Mr Gozi, if you pay me some attention, you may tell me later when you intend to answer this question and when we will be allowed access to the acts of the ascending phase. It should be remembered that the draft law under consideration is foreshadowed as an act of transposition a little rogue and certainly creative, as only this political class can do, because it brings together norms that have nothing to do with each other and transposes huge without having to do with it. Why? Let us remember that disputes with the European Union are divided into several stages. We first have an informal call, then we have a pre-infringement procedure, which is called the EU Pilot case, and finally we have a first and a second infringement phase. Therefore, some of the acts incorporated in this provision did not necessarily have to be transposed now (I refer in particular to Articles 1 and 3), because there is a very long phase before it actually goes into infringement. Then I'd like to focus on why the government decided to copy them right now. Let us also remember that Italy is in infringement proceedings and has four convictions, two concerning state aid and two concerning the innominable management of waste in general and in particular in Campania, on which I believe that this Government is doing absolutely nothing, so these infringement procedures are in fact accepted and we are paying them. I wonder, then, why go into infringement proceedings on issues that damage the health of citizens and instead not try to negotiate again for a while on issues that damage the made in Italy? Before talking about the content of this law, I would like to add another element of a method, which is certainly questionable, with which this European law has been drawn up. Many of the articles in the law have been added later and have not been passed by the competent Commissions. Therefore, in addition to the secrecy of the objects for which we are in breach and in addition to the lack of discussion in the Commission, there are articles which the competent Commissions have not been able to examine and which have therefore been introduced in a surreptitious and subsequent manner only in the 14th Commission. I believe that this is a very serious matter, because the measures must first be assessed on the basis of the relevant Commission. Another point of method is the fact that many of our amendments have been rejected, under Article 81, not because they caused higher costs to the State, but because - as the Budget Commission said - there would be a risk of infringement. This is also a disgrace, because it is clear that European law is designed to avoid infringement. Therefore, if we want to apply Article 81 on European law, there is no need to discuss it in Parliament: Secretary Gozi goes to the Commission with an accountant, puts the stamp on all the proposals of the European Commission and does not waste money and time on this Parliament for something that is ultimately simply denied to us: to discuss the substance and possibly decide whether to take the political decision to go into infringement procedure, rather than the Neapolitan "monkness," perhaps to protect Made in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Here we close on the questions of method and enter into the substance of the articles. I would particularly like to refer to Article 1, because it is being discussed a lot, but it is not said what will happen. With some of these articles it will happen that some laws, promoted by this Government and by previous ones as conquests, will be repealed in total silence. One of these is the law Mongiello, the law "save oil," which is rendered ineffective by the transposition referred to in Article 1. What does this article 1 do? Let us remember that it is an EU Pilot, not an infringement, and that therefore the Government had plenty of time to provide. At a time when walls are being erected so as not to let migrants pass, at a time when Turkey puts us on its knees and asks for money, speculating on human lives, we are not even able to go and negotiate for a label. Article 1 shall consist of two letters, points (a) and (b). The letter a) prevents us from indicating with a chromatic evidence and with a greater measure of letters the origin of olive oil. I would like to ask this Government why the consumer should not choose olive oil on the basis of origin. This would be a very positive competition, because every country would be pushed to produce quality oil, so that one day perhaps the Italian consumer, instead of buying Italian oil, will decide to buy Tunisian oil. Why not? It's about quality competition. If, on the other hand, we do not allow the consumer to choose on the basis of the origin of the oil, we make a trap of democracy and free choice. Point (b) is even more serious because it abolishes the expiry date of olive oil on the label. All the associations tell us that olive oil, due to its characteristics, must be consumed within eighteen months of bottling. In this case, however, the European Commission leaves to producers the responsibility for the deadline, without even indicating guidelines. This means that a producer can decide to sell that oil for 150 years; not only that: this puts on the market consignments of oil that have expired for a long time and therefore will lower the price of the oil and create unfair competition against the virtuous producers. Article 1, therefore, kills the production of Italian quality olive oil and fits into the line of action of this Government, which allowed the import of Tunisia oil beyond the established quotas, which is not able to solve the emergency xylella in Puglia and which is doing everything to kill the Italian production of olive oil. This is only Article 1. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's go to article 3, always EU Pilot (so it was not necessary to receive it now). The European Commission challenges us with a law - also this propaganda by the Renzi Government, but now you have to say that it is repealed - in which we decided not to indicate the origin of the product only on the basis of the plant in which the last processing took place and prevents us from declaring the origin of the primary ingredient. This means that if a mozzarella is produced with milk powder produced in China, imported to Tunisia, reconstituted in Argentina and arrived in Italy to make that mozzarella, it becomes made in Italy. The same, perhaps, for cooked ham: pigs raised in some part of the world under conditions that are not known, boiled in another part of the world, but stamped in Italy will become cooked ham made in Italy. If this looks like Made in Italy! Sounds like a piece of shit to me. Not only is it a food crap, it is also a brand to the big producers who need low-priced raw materials, because they still have to compete with working conditions and food security that are not comparable to those of our country, and therefore import from countries that do not comply with European standards. Even this article 3, therefore, becomes not only a danger to the health of citizens, but also a way to kill small producers, small farmers and small processors of Italian companies, once again in line with this unbridled liberalism, sanctioned also by the TTIP that you support with so much energy but that - we are told - will also be a disaster for the Italian economy. And I invite you all to the demonstration on Saturday to say no to this crap. Let's take advantage. Maybe some conscience wakes up. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There is another article that you have all kept quiet, article 7, ex article 5. In this case you have been a little softer with reference to Article 81 of the Constitution; in fact, Article 7 requires cover that you are going to find by increasing - even in a rather ridiculous way - the VAT on risotto preparations. Please be careful: this is a favour both for gambling lobbyists and for organised crime. The European Commission has reminded us that the winnings achieved abroad, including through online operators, are subject to the progressive rates of the IRPEF (we talk about gambling or games anyway), while for those obtained in Italian gambling houses the payout tax is considered absolved as included in the tax on shows, consisting of a levy at source against the organizers of the games equal to 10%. Be careful, however: this is a taxation on the organizers of the games, not on the winners, so the history of double taxation is an emeritus nonsense. This Parliament had two opportunities: either to include in the IRPEF the winnings on games, even online, not foreign (it would have been the right choice, because it would have allowed traceability), or to expunge from the IRPEF both Italian and foreign winnings. Since this provision does not protect those who suffer from ludopathy and do not protect transparency, the most villain choice has been made: exempt from the IRPEF also the winnings on foreign games [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is very serious, because in the report of the National Anti-Mafia Directorate presented in Parliament - and I recall that Senator Mirabelli is a member of the Anti-Mafia Commission, and yet he has supported this crap of an article - it is stated that behind apparently legal activities, such as legitimate play, more and more corrupting phenomena are hidden. Do you know why? Because the mafia no longer gives bribes in cash, rather it opens online gambling houses and then pays its employees through fictitious winnings, which the latter do not report in the tax return. How many times have you heard people say that they get rich, I won the game? But how come you all win at the game and you don't know where you get this money? To Senator Mirabelli and also to the rapporteur, who in theory is a reputable person, I would ask to make a further argument on Article 7, because it is a favor to the mafia, to the camorra, to the 'ndrangheta, and an insult to those who are fighting against ludopathy. Let's move on, because these are just some of the crap. If it is true that we have to adapt to the European Union, otherwise we go into infringement proceedings, we do not understand why Article 17 now becomes Article 26, instead we go into infringement proceedings cheerfully. The European Commission asked us to set the closing date for hunting on 20 January instead of 31 January for particular and protected species. In this case we make a derogation from Article 81, because all in all we have to protect other lobbies. Beyond the fact that we have obligations to comply with the provisions of the European Commission, it is true that you use these obligations to make emeritus craps: to favour large distributors, to give you an unbridled liberalism with regard to Italian agri-food and to favour - why not - hunting lobbies. At this point, I would ask you to consider once again - you did not want to do so in the Commission - the withdrawal of Articles 1 and 3 which, being in pre-infringement, do not need to be transposed here; I would ask you to return to the European Commission and discuss again in order to defend the Italian agri-food industry. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , and to evaluate our amendments with regard to gambling, because such a rule in European law is a disgrace and can be done differently. Therefore, I will make an explanation of vote based on what you decide to do today on this obnoxious and - why not - perhaps you will listen to us, at least once, for the good of the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u57	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u58	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, European law 2015 deals with the healing or avoidance of infringement procedures. Also in this draft law there is a long list of provisions covering the most diverse issues, which seem to be of little importance (from VAT on basil, rosemary and sage, the labelling of honey, recipes for risotto, the venatory levy, which we have just heard, up to the taxation in the gambling houses, an equally important and important issue) or other issues of greater interest. All of these issues concern the lives of citizens and businesses, and that is why they deserve our attention. Like the rule that, in Article 1, introduces the bill concerning virgin olive oils (of which we have just heard in the Assembly), which penalizes the Made in Italy, as pointed out in recent days by many representatives of Forza Italia. Our country is, in fact, one of the largest producers of extra virgin olive oil and our producers preserve the quality of the product also through the marketing within a certain period. It is very unusual that the Commission considers that there is a direct correlation between the quality of the oil and the shelf life. Any person of common sense knows that one of the rules to preserve the organoleptic characteristics of olive oil is to keep it at its best and for a period not too long. Another example is the introduction of rules relating to the labelling of honey, which can be indicated for the production of the EC, even if the product is the result of the honey mixture of bees from different European countries, thus creating not only confusion, but penalising the honey made in Italy. These are just a few first examples that allow us to understand how this European law continues, unfortunately, clearly in the path of an Italy that only tries to avoid infringement procedures and the consequent sanctions. It is also the photograph of a country that continues to suffer impositions from Europe and, in the game of giving-having, Italy certainly loses not only as a net contributor, but even as a country that, in some cases, is obliged to adopt more penal legislation, compared to the existing one, to satisfy the demands of the Union. This is the case with many of the provisions contained in this European law 2015, which the Senate examines first, confirming that alternation that currently sees the law of European delegation under examination of the Chamber. There is probably a serious reflection on the instrument of European law, which, although provided for in the general rules on the participation of Italy in the training and implementation of EU legislation and policies, is limited to correcting the Italian rules as a result of procedures already initiated or in the process of beginning at European level. On the other hand, upstream work should be done to prevent certain procedures being initiated where, for example, they are concerned with tightening up or increasing the tax burden in certain areas (Chapter IV, Articles 8 to 14 of this draft law, relating to taxation, customs and State aid). A country like ours, which has the highest tax burden in Europe, should at least avoid accepting intimations that increase the level of taxation. We understand that at this moment, when the Government will most likely be forced to make a correction on the public accounts, it can be useful to have more tax revenue. At the moment, even those just under EUR 5 million, which are the estimated revenue from the changes to the VAT rate - from 4% to 10% - applicable to risotto preparations are important. Among other things, the written rule by the Government, provided for in Article 11, denies a very recent provision of the Revenue Agency of 24 July 2014, which confirmed the applicability of the rate at 4%. This way of working produces confusion and takes away income from many operators in the sector. Similarly, Article 12 provides for taxation on higher taxes (50 per cent compared to the current 40 per cent) of the income of agricultural consortia. Among other things, they are rules that provide for a previous application to the tax period after 31 December 2014 and that generate an effect that will also have on the profits accrued in 2015, having an impact on the economic results of the consortia of the year just concluded. These realities now pay a penalty which will almost certainly affect the prices of products and services sold to farmers in the many agricultural consortia throughout Italy. It is also worth mentioning - some Members who spoke in this House just a few minutes ago - provisions such as those contained in Article 3, which repeal the obligation to indicate the actual origin of products on packaging, seriously confusing consumers with the country of origin of foodstuffs. It is clear, therefore, that we are going to penalise once again the excellence and specificity of Italian production. In addition, I would point out that Article 21, which concerns State aid, introduces a single centralised procedure for the notification of measures by which central and territorial administrations intend to grant State aid. In conclusion, it seems to us that day after day this country of ours is losing sovereignty and ends up adopting a series of pervasive measures in the procedures of public administration, as well as in the lives of our companies also in that of our citizens. We need a more authoritative Italy in Europe, a country that does not fight only to obtain flexibility clauses, which ultimately generate new deficits, but a Government that can defend those small and limited advantages, compared to European regulations, which are the peculiarity, the secret of the success of Made in Italy and that, not being written on stone, can certainly be changed and adapted to our needs, but certainly not the opposite. It is essential, therefore, to protect Italy's interest, to safeguard our productive fabric, made above all of small, small and medium-sized enterprises, which produce quality and make excellence, very often in market niches and for this reason must be protected. Made in Italy, which has gained fame all over the world and which Europe, on the contrary, tends to penalize through rules that mortify the denomination of our most typical artifacts, must be the flag to be waved and defended in this Europe and of which all of us Italians must be proud. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u59	The joint general debate is closed. I would like to say that the G1 agenda was presented to document XXIV, No 56, signed by Senator Candiani. The text is in distribution. I call Senator Cociancich, rapporteur on draft law No 2228.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u60	Mr President, I would like to thank all my colleagues who have spoken for making a further contribution to this debate and to the draft European law 2015. The debate followed a wide-ranging debate in the 14th Commission, where decidedly more urban tones prevailed than some colleagues have today. I am referring in particular to Senator Fattori and I regret that, when we are in this Chamber, there is always the call of the forest, for which, probably because there are cameras and the possibility of turning to their electors or supposed ones, one must necessarily get to use expressions that touch the grievance towards colleagues who have instead been very committed. I would like to speak not in favour of my work, but of that of our colleagues in the Commission, who do not deserve to be branded as people who have not engaged in this debate, which has been extensive, thorough and very quiet. Everyone has made an effort to try to grasp the point of view of others as well; in fact, the beauty of work in the 14th The Commission, of which I have been a member for three years, has always been to find a way of mutual respect and attention. In fact, we all highlight Italian interests, beyond the right demands of a political position. First of all, I would like to ask for more respect for the work that has been done. I would also like to refer to the question referred for a preliminary ruling: it cannot be left without comment that not only does it intervene on a matter on which there was unanimous agreement in the Commission, but it has even been presented verbally. Mr President, I believe that this is a novelty in the tradition of the Senate; I even wonder if it was admissible. It was presented without indicating the object, i.e. the incriminated rule that would have overwhelmed the whole measure. If we were in a courtroom, it would have been said that it was nothing out of indeterminateness of the object. Today the Senate was called upon to vote without knowing what it was voting on, and I find this absolutely not to be repeated; so I ask that this decision by the Presidency should not constitute a precedent for the future, otherwise we could present constitutional prejudices as if we were at the bar. It has not been taken into account that there is a regulatory instrument which allows both the Commissions and the House to oppose the 5th Commission's ruling, so much so that the contrary opinion of that Commission can also be overcome by a particular majority. I do not know exactly what Senator D'Ali was referring to when he referred the question; I do not know why he did not say so, so none of us can know, but if he was referring to a case in which the 5th It should be said that your Group also voted in favour of that Commission, so today he has somewhat distrusted his own Group; in any case, there are other regulatory instruments to overcome this exception. I would like to say something about the remarks made by some of my colleagues today. The perplexity and, at times, the astonishment about a European policy that is very concerned about details, such as the label of oil or the origin of honey, and then is totally disinterested about thousands of people dying in the Mediterranean. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is not the Europe we want. This is not the kind of European Union we want to build. It is the European Union that we have when we abandon the values and forget the values that inspire the European Union. This is serious, but it is also the result of a policy that has lasted for at least ten years. The European Union is not a neutral institution. There are majorities, even political ones. This is the result, a little poisoned, of a European Commission dominated by centre-right majorities and the Barroso Commission, which has made the peculiarity of the European Union a bureaucratic aspect. So when we today complain, and hear complaints about other forces, that the European Union has become very bureaucratic, that is the logical consequence of a certain kind of policy. It's not random. We are fighting for this no longer to happen, and the action of the Italian Government has strongly called our European partners and the European institutions to a different attitude. It must also be said, however, that it is not by violating the rules of the Treaties and by meeting sanctions that we can best protect the European Union and our country. Senator Tremonti is right when he invokes the criterion of subsidiarity. It is a pity that this is not the place where it was to be invoked, because subsidiarity must not be invoked when it comes to remedying infringements. Subsidiarity must be invoked when the rules are made and regular regulatory activities in the Commissions are carried out at the so-called upward stage. That is where we defend the values of Italy, the interests of Italians and the principle of subsidiarity. Invoking him when we are in European law means saying the right thing in the wrong place. Therefore, we should also have the common sense to choose the opportune moment to make certain statements even a little pyrotechnic, as is in the rhetorical tradition of Senator Tremonti. Above all, we must be aware that the infringements we are facing today are the result of the sedimentation of a series of evil policies put in place not only in the last three or four months. This is ridiculous because, in fact, all the infringements we are talking about go back years before 2011, so to other legislators and governments. Frankly, it is a little perplexed to hear today those who were in the government when the premises for the infringement were created to pontificate on the fact that then the same somehow turned into an infringement procedure. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today we avoid creating a backwardness and we avoid getting to the last moment. It is true that there are procedures in this European law that have not yet come to an infringement procedure and that we are in an even earlier case. I wonder, however, why we should come to the infringement and why we should negotiate under the sword of Damocles such a substantial sanction. Yesterday, in my report, I mentioned the sanctions, which have absolutely heavy amounts. For each infringement Italy should pay 8,916 million euros, in addition to a periodic penalty payment of 10,753 euros to the minimum or 645,000 euros to the maximum for every day of infringement. Why should we put ourselves in a position to suffer this kind of penalty and then negotiate on our knees? I ask those who have complained that the procedure has been brought forward. Today we can deal with it head-on. We'd shop on our knees tomorrow. So it is absolutely eccentric the position of those who say that we could still wait: but to meet what? We did an important thing today. We have the historical record of reducing litigation, having dropped by almost 40 procedures. While at the beginning of the current government mandate we were at 120 infringement procedures, today we have reached 80. This is the way in which today we protect our interests and those of Italian entrepreneurs and citizens. The last point concerns the issue of games. Senator Fattori may have forgotten (I guess she didn't do it on purpose, otherwise she would have done something that wouldn't deserve our approval), but she failed to mention in her speech that a large majority of the Commission approved an important agenda with which we not only gave an indication on how to deal with winnings in gambling houses, but we also committed the government to assign the taxation that will result from online gaming winnings to the care of gambling. Therefore, if there is one measure that has been taken concretely by the Commission, and therefore by Parliament, it was precisely that of reaffirming the commitment against ludopathy, which, unfortunately, instead, the agendas presented by the 5 Star Movement had carefully forgotten to do. We do not accept lessons on this point. We have done a serious, important job and we proudly vindicate it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u61	As the rapporteur on documents XXIV, Nos. Question No 56 and No 59 do not intend to intervene in the reply, as the circumstances have been appreciated, to postpone the continuation of the discussion of the draft law and of the documents in title to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u62	I address a greeting to the students of the "Raffaele Capriglione" Institute of Santa Croce di Magliano, in the province of Campobasso, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u65	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to present the G26.101 agenda in my name on the subject of animal testing. The agenda was presented close to the deadline for tabling amendments, taking into account the news of last Thursday of the Commission's formalisation of Italy in relation to Legislative Decree No 26 of 2014 with which we have transposed the European Directive on animal testing. This news was awaited by those of us who have dealt with the subject. The Commission's choice is due after Parliament and the Government have added limits to the discipline, despite the express prohibition contained in the directive itself. All these aspects were discussed both in the public debate and in its own seats: I am thinking of the opinion of the Health Commission on the draft legislative decree of the Government, in which there is a technical and analytical examination of the legal aspects contrary to the rules of the Union, which I refer to on the agenda deposited. Last night, the rapporteur, Mr Cociancich, in explaining the draft law, reminded us that out of the 38 articles under discussion today, 16 contain changes to national legislation in order to avoid the opening of further European cases or infringement procedures. The case of animal testing belongs exactly to the hypothesis in these 16 articles. Today it is a question of taking note of this dispute and, if the rapporteur and the Government wanted to, they could now table an amendment aimed at preventing any infringement procedure and, above all, at enabling Italian researchers to compete on equal terms with European colleagues. However, I realize that perhaps working in this parliamentary passage is late. So with this agenda, I would like to commit the government...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u66	It's too late for the agenda too, Senator Cattaneo. We're at the end of the session. This has nothing to do with the debate we are holding.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u67	Too late as a time frame compared to the request that is being made. I would therefore like to commit the Government so that, if this draft law were amended in the House, the opportunity could be taken, from this European law, to make those legislative changes that prevent the infringement procedure. I should like to end by recalling how much this...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u68	Senator Cattaneo, your speech is not relevant with the speeches at the end of the sitting: the joint general debate has been declared closed; then there will be the amending phase and therefore the possibility of submitting agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u71	Mr Spilabotte (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to denounce a fact: the day before yesterday morning Mattia Perin, goalkeeper of the Genoa team, as well as second goalkeeper of the Italian national team, reopening a historical wound, one of the darkest pages in the history of contemporary Italy, on his profile of Instagram - he wrote it on the keyboard of a smartphone, which is perhaps the only view in its existence, made entirely of feet and brainless - on the occasion of a fight with a fan of Frosinone - Perin is from Latina and from this are born the vents from the supporters of the yellow-blues - wrote: In Vallecorsa changed history, your grandfather speaks Arabic... Mine founded Littoria! The shock message refers to the Moroccans, that is to say the rapes and violence that suffered not only women, but the entire population of the province of Frosinone by Moroccan troops framed in the French expedition corps in Italy. The village of Vallecorsa, to which Perin refers, was dramatically involved in those events: there were, only in Vallecorsa, 418 rapes, 29 murders and 517 thefts. This is the story of Moroccans, the one who infamous Perin yesterday, a spoiled little boy. It doesn't matter whether that disgusting reference was made out of ignorance or awareness. It is of unheard of gravity in both cases. That of the Moroccans is a wound that will remain open forever, and not only for the populations of the lower Lazio. Perin is ignorant in history and geography, unaware also of the fact that his province, that of Latina, has known the martyrs imposed by Moroccans. This episode cannot be archived unpunished and even the excuses arrived yesterday on Instagram are not enough. They are not enough: the player must be sanctioned on a disciplinary level, because he wears the shirt of that Italy, being second goalkeeper of the Italian national team, whose history yesterday shamefully muddled. In the sport competition, club rivalry must never cross: this time Perin shows a total insensitivity and a very dangerous nostalgia. In the next few days I will commit myself to making a motion for the entire Parliament to seek exemplary punishment for Perin from sports justice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Spilabotte. Mr Spilabotte (PD). In conclusion, I address Perin directly. You patched up, Mattia, and you did it in the most painful way possible because, if you wanted to celebrate the relegation of Frosinone, as a Latina fan, know that you only exalted your cowardice and extreme ignorance of Italian citizen, of that Italy that you deserve to represent, because you are a good goalkeeper, but that you do not deserve, as a small man. I hope someone will have the goodness to explain to you what happened, maybe a son of that barbarism or even a child, one like you, who knew the story from the story of a grandfather, who perhaps did not founded Littoria, but who in those days suffered, with the echo of the Arabic that was bounced in his brain. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u74	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, on the eve of 1 May, workers' festival, out of the 130 employees of the company König di Molteno, in the province of Lecco, struck a lightning strike, because the last property decided without notice to close the plant. König is a historic Lecco company, founded in 1966, which manufactures and innovates in the snow chains sector. In 2004, the company was acquired by the Swedish group Thule, which, in 2015, passed ownership to the Austrian group Pewag. The decision, taken with peremptority, was not preceded by any prior notice or communication to the trade union representatives. There is simply a desire on the part of Austrian society to relocate production in part in Carinthia and in part in the Czech Republic. So, in the face of optimism spread with full hands, at 360 degrees, by Prime Minister Renzi, what is highlighted is the raw reality. The high taxes and the high cost of energy affect the high cost of labour and the bureaucracy and the long times of administrative justice make it possible to multiply the phenomenon of relocation throughout the country and now mark also the territory of Lecca that, until a few years ago, did not register problems of work and - I want to remember - the unemployment was at 2%. It is for this reason that I have submitted an urgent parliamentary question to the Minister of Labour Poletti and to the Ministry of Economic Development, although it is vacant, in view of the resignation of the previous minister Guidi, to ask if they do not agree that the choice of relocation by this and other companies depends on the high cost of labor, waited that the OECD data testify that the average cost of labor in Italy of 28 euros is about 20% higher than the European average. I also ask what other initiatives, even in terms of moral suasion, the Government intends to take to safeguard a historic company in Lecco and above all hundreds of jobs. Finally, I would like to ask whether the Government intends to urgently encourage the convening of an institutional table where members and representatives of property and representatives of workers and trade unions, together with local institutions, meet to deal with the problem and quickly arrive at a positive solution to this long-standing affair which - I repeat - risks leaving more than 100 employees of the Lecco family out of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u77	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I apologise to you and your colleagues for confusing the speeches first. In view of the limited time available to me, I would first of all ask the Presidency to be allowed to leave to the documents the document that I have prepared concerning Human Technopole and that under other circumstances I would have insisted on reading. I studied and analyzed the topic and tried to understand the aspects related to the project promoted by the Government to occupy a part of the post Expo with a large research infrastructure, Human Technopole. And, after analyzing this project, going up the current, I arrived at the beneficiary institution and, therefore, I give some indications, in the document, about the desirability of the arbitrary choice of that beneficiary institution. And I repeat here that the analysis made would have concerned any other body chosen in a similar way. In conclusion, I would like to point out that there are historical experiences and political and economic analyses that show that it is a mistake to establish by law which scientific project to support. The same experiences show that concentrating public money in a few hands is wrong. The continued allocation of large sums of public money to centres such as the beneficiary institution in question, which escape public reporting and transparent administration, does not comply with the ethical obligation to provide evidence of the return on investment. Finally, I would like to raise the fact that the beneficiary institution chosen as the coordinator of Human Technopole - the Italian Institute of Technology - does not have the specific competences in the areas indicated by the Government. Therefore, in my opinion, we need to re-examine and rethink the strategies for achieving that important project, by adopting every appropriate act. And, in the document, I also suggest the urgency that Italy is endowed with a national research agency, downstream of which to design a large investment like that of Human Technopole. [[Applause from Senators Bocchino, Candiani and Formigoni.]] I would ask you to attach the written text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u78	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u79	Excuse me for the rigour, but the convening of the Conference of the Leaders is scheduled for 1 p.m. and I must be very strict with the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-620.ana.u80	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13 p.m.
