ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 3 November.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u4	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. and resumed at 11.25 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u6	I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (11.25 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00623, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators, 1-00654, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00678, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, 1-00679, presented by Senator Stefani and other senators, 1-00681, presented by Senator Crimi and other senators, 1-00682, presented by Senator Barani and other senators, and 1-00683, presented by Senator Lo Moro and other senators, on the renewal of contracts by police forces. I call Senator Gasparri to explain motion 623.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u10	Mr President, the motion that we are debating today is similar to a motion that the House of Members approved, together with others from all the groups, by unanimous vote on 11 October, so I hope that this text will also have a similar outcome in the Senate House. I quote this precedent because, in fact, I hope that the Groups will take this into account. The motion at our examination stems from the fact that the Constitutional Court, in its judgment n. 178 of 2015, declared the constitutional illegitimacy of the blocking of contracts in the civil service. The motion that I tabled together with my colleagues Alicata, Fasano, Bernini, Fazzone, Malan, Piccoli and Aracri and with the sharing of the entire Group of Forza Italia, cites this incontrovertible fact that the Constitutional Court, since the summer of 2015, as the Minister of the Interior (which I thank for coming personally to participate in the discussion) certainly knows, intimate to the Government to renew the contracts. The motion that I present commits the Government to apply this sentence: it may seem a fact taken for granted, but since summer 2015 it has passed a year and a half and the sentence has not been applied. The motion discussed and approved in the Chamber on 11 October was prior to the presentation of the law of stability and its objective was to oblige the Government to allocate the funds; since the Senate discusses a motion on the same subject but after the presentation of the law of stability, the occasion seems useful - I say above all to Minister Alfano - to verify to what extent and how this commitment, which the House has already approved and which I hope the Senate will approve, will be fulfilled by the Government. Article 52 of the Stability Act - therefore, colleagues, we are anticipating a debate on this bill, which is still being examined by the Commissions - provides for the allocation of funds, but beware (and I address you in particular, Minister Alfano): we do not want these funds to be like Napoleon's coat. In the movie "Miseria e nobiltà" (Miseria and Nobility), which is light but now a classic, Totò, to try to feed the family, says to go and engage his coat to have in exchange bread, mozzarella, pasta and meat; his shoulder replies that the shopkeeper would not give him all those things in return, since it was not Napoleon's coat. I do not wish, Minister Alfano, that Article 52 of the Stability Act was Napoleon's coat, because there is money, but it is not that you can do everything. Why? Meanwhile, the appropriation is for the whole, very respectable, public sector, whose contracts have been stopped for a long time, because of all governments: I say this first, because the contractual blockade has dragged into various political ages. Since all the public employment, not only the security and defence sector, is entitled to a contract, the figure of 1.9 billion for 2017 and 2.6 billion for 2018, which seems substantial, but referring to an entire sector, whose contracts have not been renewed since 2009, is actually a little short coat. Then, in point (a) of the second paragraph of Article 52 of the Stability Act, which is yet to arrive and which the House has yet to dismiss, we are talking about contracts. Therefore, Minister Alfano, this rule can be amended: even the Government and the majority can do so, perhaps on the wave of the vote of the Chamber of 11 October and of our vote today, since with the motion we ask only to renew the contracts and to allocate the resources and is therefore a motion easily shared (so much so that the House has been shared). She, Minister Alfano, paradoxically gives more strength to her, as head of the Ministry of the Interior, to say to put more money in it because, while respecting all public employment, public security, the Carabinieri and the other police forces live a condition of discomfort. Today I read in the newspapers, for example, that an officer wounded in Florence while defending a demonstration promoted by the Secretary of the Democratic Party (so he should care about everyone the risk that those agents took) paid the ticket to the hospital. As reported in the newspapers, Minister Alfano: Check if a police officer, injured by protesters, goes to the hospital to get treatment and also pays the ticket. I don't know if that's true. I read it today in some newspapers. We say to you: be careful. In fact, in point (a) we talk about money for all contracts, while in point (b) it is said that they will be hired. Welcome to hiring. You know, Minister Alfano, as at the time of the Government I read, with some amendments, contributed to the unblocking of the turnover blocked by the Government Monti, but the turnover must be restored to 100% and I hope this will happen. Then, point c), foresees that, always with this coat of Napoleon that looks so big (with which you have to renew contracts and hire in the police forces), you proceed to the reordering or, as article 52, Minister Alfano, to the confirmation of the 80 euros, because it is true that the police forces have perceived the famous 80 euros in 2016, but the norm was valid only for 2016 and it should be renewed. [[Recalls of the President]] I have finished, Mr President, excuse me, but we only have this motion on the agenda; one more minute and I shall finish. With the money from this Napoleon coat, how do you do it? This is the additional question to the motion and it is the further work, Minister Alfano, that will have to be done to the House, I hope, and otherwise to the Senate, when the law of stability arrives. This money must serve for the contract of all the public employment and the security and defence sector, for the reorganization of careers and to confirm the 80 euros. You have said several times, even in the Senate commission, that you will reorder the contract and everything else. I hope everything is done. This motion encourages the government to respect the work of the police forces. I add nothing else, because the minutes are few and the quorum has already been missing once. The issue is clear in its essentiality and I wanted to deal with it without limestone tones that we could easily tread, with respect to the discomfort of the police and their sacrifice, which I take for granted in this House and I mentioned the episode of the ticket, which I hope is not true, to say how uncomfortable these women and these men are living. Today the Senate has the possibility to send a concrete signal of support to the police and armed forces and also a push to the Government to use the discussion on the law of stability in a positive way. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u11	I greet a delegation from a police union who is attending our work. [[Applause]] We also greet students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo -Citadella -Margherita Hack in Ancona. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u12	Mr President, our motion also starts from judgment No 178 of the Constitutional Court, which declared the constitutional illegitimacy of the suspension of collective bargaining. I would like to mention here a problem that we have raised many times. I am referring to the damage caused by the blocking of public employment contracts, including, of course, those of the security sector and the Armed Forces, which have been caused not only to the legitimate interests of all civil servants, but also, more generally, to the country, in terms of the efficiency of public administration and as regards the sensitive issue of security. I just want to remember some data. The majority of the spending review, of which some members of the Government boast, was actually supported by workers and workers in the public administration sector. 11.35 a.m. (De PETRIS follow-up). In fact, I would like to point out that between 2009 and 2015 expenditure on civil servants' salaries decreased by EUR 10 billion. Therefore, most of the spending review of which some governments have been fully supported by civil servants, among other things with a decrease of employees, also produced with the blockage of turnover between 2009 and 2015, of 110,000 units. I would like to underline briefly another paradoxical fact here: if, on the one hand, we are faced with a rhetorical exaltation of the role and specificity of the Armed Forces, the Forces of Order and the Fire Departments on the other, in real terms, we find ourselves not only with the blocking of contracts, but also with a reduction in the absolutely incredible remuneration, with the chronic shortage of accommodation for staff, particularly important in this sector, with the problems that have also occurred in some basic services (I think about the incident, dealt with several times, of service vehicles), and the sacrifice of the safety conditions in which these workers operate. All this, in view of the role played, for example, by the firefighters in all the events that have dramatically affected our country, from the earthquake of Amatrice to everything that has happened and continues to happen in the Marches and Umbria, and therefore the need to strengthen this sector, in the presence of a situation that sees ever more widespread natural disasters that represent more and more an element of insecurity for the citizens. That's the data. What had happened in the Stability Act for 2016? The funds that had been allocated, including the extraordinary contribution for the police forces, the National Firefighter Corps and the Armed Forces, were, in our opinion, absolutely insufficient, as well as the funds allocated for 2016 for the renewal of contracts, amounting to EUR 300 million. We are about to examine the law of stability and President Gasparri has asked a question, highlighting the presence of a fund, practically unique, that contains everything and even there the figures seem who knows what, while in reality it does not produce what the Court has recognized, that is, it does not heal the constitutional illegitimacy with a new commitment to the renewal of contracts. We therefore ask very clearly to take all steps to comply with the judgment by renewing the collective agreements and above all that in the law of stability, with particular reference to the Fire Departments, the Forces of Order and the Armed Forces, there is an adequate and appropriate financial envelope, taking into account that all these workers have been without contract for eight years, with a dry loss of remuneration. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u13	I call Senator Bonfrisco to explain motion No 678.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u14	Mr President, the contracts and salaries of the Fire Departments, the Armed Forces and the police have been blocked for over six years. Since 2010, salaries of civil servants have not benefited from the ISTAT adjustment to increase the cost of living. It is worth remembering when we are talking about a sector of public administration that is so important and sensitive and today very strategic. Nevertheless, to date no negotiations have been launched for the renewal of the employment contracts of the Fire Departments, the police forces and the Armed Forces, thus forced to work in conditions of extreme discomfort and with obvious forms of illegitimacy. Yet, the Constitutional Court has expressed itself very clearly and we hope that that article 52, quoted both by Senator De Petris and Senator Gasparri as the possible solution to at least one part - to a large part, we hope - of these problems, will really be approved first by the House and then by the Senate. Given that the reorganization of the careers of the police forces in civil order has recently been started, we think it is important to emphasize one aspect: our country is increasingly distraught by natural disasters that continue to affect Italy, feeding also great fears among the population. And the last, the one that devastated the area of Norcia and Macerata, has made it even more evident that in addition to the increasingly necessary national security policies for the fight against the phenomena of terrorism, we need the commitment of many of our police and security forces, who must be able to devote their time also to the security of earthquake zones, where men and women have been and are employed in uniform, highlighting - if ever needed - the unselfishness and efficiency of the police forces, the armed forces and especially of the fire department. But despite the self - denial of these people, we continue not to give them the right and deserved attention. That is why we believe it is necessary to commit the Government to take prompt steps to overcome that phase of blockade, starting immediately the negotiation procedures for the renewal of contracts, to establish the allocation of funds to detect the so-called ancillary allowances of policemen, policemen and firemen who are engaged in external services, services that naturally increase the risk to life and their responsibilities. If it were established that that policeman engaged in the clashes in Florence really had to pay for his ticket at the hospital it would be a test of great inefficiency by a state that, instead, must have at heart the protection and protection of its security forces. We call for the introduction of a system of legal and health protection by the State in favour of men in uniform, in order to guarantee them the costs of the facts inherent in the service, so something more than what is already being done today. We also call for funds to be allocated for public aid, because calling the police and security forces even in cases of natural disaster means at least providing them with what is necessary for them to carry out this service. We therefore hope that the law of stability will be an opportunity to resume a path of respect for those police and security forces who, in spite of our carelessness and despite the fact that the government does not devote sufficient resources to them, continue to do their work meritoriously. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u15	I call Senator Tosato to explain motion No 679.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u16	Mr President, the Lega Nord Group believes that this sitting is very important, even if it is held at this morning hour in the presence of a few colleagues, because we believe that it is not dedicated to the protection of a particular category of civil servants, but to the issue of the safety of citizens: these are our will and our conviction. It is also important that it be addressed today in the vicinity of the discussion of the draft budget law, because through these motions we expect the Government and the majority to acknowledge the existence of an emergency that needs to be addressed effectively and giving answers to a real question of the country. As colleagues have said, the main demand is linked to an adjustment of the salaries of the Forces of Order, that is, the defence, security and fire department. This request is not intended to protect a privileged category, it is a sacrosanct request which stems from the need to adapt contracts - as has been said - which have expired for too long now. Contractual renewal on a four-year basis is expected to prevent the Government from continuing, year after year, in a grant operation to the various categories of one-off tips that do not find continuity over time. We believe that this requirement is absolutely a priority. We are all aware that the resources available to the Government are absolutely inadequate to respond to all the needs of the country; however, we must make choices based on priorities, emergencies and because security in this country is a real emergency, there must be adequate answers. We live in a historical period characterized by new phenomena, such as those related to terrorism and therefore the need to control our territory with an adequate number of Forces of the order, and there are new emergencies linked to an increase in crime throughout the national territory, an increase that is evidently linked also to a choice of this Government that, with measures such as the so-called empty prisons, has decided to do the penalty to criminals on the loose, in the absolute freedom to repeat crimes committed against our citizens. In view of this choice to have criminals on the loose, it is necessary to have motivated forces of order, who have a fair recognition of their work by appropriate staff and means. At present this circumstance does not exist in our country. The choice of this government was to delete hundreds of public security stations: I am not only referring to territorial ones, but also to post and railway police offices. The deleted offices are about 300, so you chose to make security cuts. You have then promoted a clumsy attempt to introduce the crime of torture, so instead of protecting our Forces of Order, you want to rage against those who do their duty to protect citizens, considering that a series of trials against the Forces of Order are now on the agenda in the performance of their mandate. For example, it is these days the news of a carabiniere who in Ancona, shooting to stop a car that risked hitting a colleague, accidentally caused the death of a delinquent, who in that car was running away. Well, this carabiniere, who was protecting the safety of a colleague, was sentenced to one year, with a claim for compensation of EUR 2.5 million from the relatives of the deceased: this is the way to protect our security. There are obsolete means and materials, prison police officers who are in a situation of serious discomfort, firemen who do not have adequate salaries compared to other categories and who are not guaranteed benefits in the event of an accident. In the face of this dramatic situation, we are asking you not to protect these categories, but to protect the safety of citizens. We are convinced that the resources that will be invested in this sector, which are clearly absolutely inadequate, are a requirement of our entire population and that, if you act in this direction, you would have the consent not only of the Forces of Order, but of all Italian citizens, because it is a real emergency and a real priority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u17	I call Senator Crimi to explain motion 681.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u18	Mr President, I would like to thank all those who are following us and who I imagine are part of the security sector. I would immediately like to avoid any doubt: today's sitting is useless, it is not useful. It's a useless sitting, like all the useless sessions we've had lately. In this sitting we will discuss a motion and I challenge someone to find a single motion approved by this Parliament in the last parliamentary term (I do not know the previous one, I am limited to a period of three years) that has found the Government ready to implement it. None. It is only an exercise in order to be able to say: I am in favour, I am against; it is only an exercise in order to consolidate one's electorate; it is only a truly theoretical exercise. In recent months there has been a series of motions on totally obvious and obvious themes. I address in particular to the gentlemen who are following us, the police unions, who are present here: go read all the motions: they are all almost identical, because we would miss that someone does not care about the renewal of the contracts of the security forces. As well as for all motions on other themes. That's what we're looking at today. The government's gonna be proud to have spent a lot of money and more. But let us look at history, and I also address you, President Gasparri, who is the promoter of one of the motions, and Minister Alfano: who started the blocking of public administration contracts? In which government did the blockade begin? Do we want to remind him that it was the Berlusconi Government? Do we want to remember that it was Mr Alfano and Mr Gasparri who did so in that Council of Ministers? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u19	I say this for history: I was not a minister in that government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u20	CRIMI (M5S). Mr. President, it was still your government. He was not Minister of the Interior, he was Minister on other occasions, however he was his Government, and you voted by majority, so the majority was there. We really have a fiction before us: today, the very people who created the pay freeze pretend to want to unlock this long-standing situation created by them and subsequent governments, who have continued to persevere in this block of salaries of all public administration, with particular reference to the public security forces. And now Minister Alfano will tell us, as it is written in the motion tabled by the majority, that they have allocated almost two billion euros for the public employment: the National Fund for the public employment. Too bad he won't tell us how much of that money will be allocated to public security and renewal of contracts; he won't tell us, because in the draft budget law everything is left generic and is referred to a future decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. And this is another form of blackmail, too. It will be blackmail because they will tell you: if it wins the yes, the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers will predict this; if it wins the no, it is not known. It will be yet another form of blackmail: don't fall for this game! I say this to all agents, security and civil protection workers: do not fall into this deception. It is yet another deception, because that money will be distributed and as usual will be lost in a thousand relics within the public administration [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And to the public security forces, as from 2010 to today, nothing will come, unfortunately, if not crumbs! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u21	I call Senator Mazzoni to explain motion 682.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u22	Mr President, a number of governments have followed, and I believe that, in the cuts to the public service and in the blocking of bargaining, the line has always been that of rigour. It is therefore useless to rebuke faults; let us look ahead and do better. In recent years the legislator, with a series of interventions, has arranged and reiterated the suspension of collective bargaining. This meant that the most representative trade union acronyms could not sit at the negotiating table in order to negotiate and obtain in the public sector the adjustment of wages and other contractual institutions. As already mentioned, the Constitutional Court, in judgment No 178 of 2015, declared the regime of suspension of bargaining unconstitutional. It is clear that the blockade for over a five-year period has unreasonablely limited those freedoms which find their fundamental expression precisely in the freedom of negotiation and the judgment cited expressly acknowledges that it will be the task of the legislator to offer a new impetus to the ordinary contractual dialectics. I remember that recent emergencies on the domestic security front of the country and the terrorist threat, always looming, force the strengthening of the preventive actions through all the police forces, while the recent emergencies due to the earthquake of Central Italy have posed serious problems of civil protection with the involvement of police forces and firefighters. All this shows that compliance with the 2015 Constitutional Court ruling is no longer different. In my remaining time, Minister Alfano, I would like to draw attention to a specific problem, that of the fire department. The gold medal that President Mattarella announced he wanted to confer on the flag of the firefighters is an acknowledgment of the highest symbolic and moral significance. It is now up to the Government and Parliament to do their part. The budget law has provided for measures in favour of the security, defence and fire department, starting with the 80 euro structural from January 2017 and the resources allocated for the renewal of the national contract. Now we need a further effort to ensure that firefighters do not remain excluded from the financial measure for the reorganization of careers planned for the security and defence sector. Police personnel and the military will rightly have additional funding, while for changes to the staff regulations of the Fire Department there would be no funding at the moment. We believe that it is also essential for firemen to identify the resources for this fundamental need. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u23	I call Senator Lo Moro to explain motion 683.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u24	President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alfano, I do not think that this morning's debate is unnecessary, and I say this because it is not my merit, nor the Democratic Party's, to have started this debate, which was initiated by Mr Gasparri's motion, a motion which was filed while we were experiencing the tragedy of the earthquake, after 24 August, and taking into account everything that was happening in our country. A sound and fair debate in Parliament is always a good thing and I remember that a debate has already taken place in the House of Members. The motion which I shall very briefly present which does not deviate radically from the other motions tabled, because the reading is the same. We have been facilitated, having recently deposited it, by the fact that, in the meantime, a budget proposal has been put forward, which we have obviously taken into account. I would like to make two observations in the preamble, one in the preamble and one in the substance. In the preamble, we have all heard a lot of talk - we have done so ourselves in our motion - about judgment No 178 of 2015, which obliges us to operate in a certain direction. It is in fact a judgment that does not solve the problem, but entrusts the legislator with the task of removing the obstacle to collective bargaining provided for in Article 39 of the Constitution. However, with loyalty and frankness, we must say that the suspension of collective bargaining would have been intolerable. In fact, it was not the bad and despicable fruit - because it is a negative fact in itself - of a particular political will, but it is due to the economic situation that the country and Europe have experienced. Of course, it started with the Berlusconi government, but it continued even further. It is clear that the whole of the public service sector feels this weight, even more so, the security sector, the defence sector and the emergency service sector, which we are asking for more and more and which, on the other hand, we are blocking from a contractual and economic point of view. I must say, however, that last year there had already been a small budget, which is certainly being increased this year. As a Member of Parliament, and as a first signatory to the majority motion (which we have also shared with many of our colleagues in the wider majority), I must remind you that the draft budget that has been given to us will be voted on by Parliament. We have some sums allocated, and I do not know whether more can be done about the sums. It will depend on many other circumstances. But the possibility of making more clarity, for example on the distribution of sums between points (a), (b) and (c), i.e. how much resources should be devoted to negotiation rather than to other commitments entered into under Article 52, is also a matter for this Parliament. Therefore, the motion commits the Government, but it also commits us, who are currently evaluating the measure in the relevant Commissions (at this moment, in truth, only in the Budget Committee) to pay more attention. In conclusion, the attitude of the Government, which has opened up funds to solve the problem, is acceptable. We need choral commitment. There is no need, at this time, to split back on the necessity that led to the suspension and to judge the past. We need a commitment to the present. I do not understand what the referendum has to do with the efforts of the police, the defense department and the fire department who are currently suffering from the intervention in the earthquake zones. Politically, this seems to me to be a wrong operation. Those who speak may do so in good faith, and Mr Crimi certainly does so for noble reasons, but in the face of the problems in those areas we should lower our tones. Today we are telling the police, the defense department and the fire department that we are aware of the need for collective bargaining, that we are also driven in this direction by the Court's ruling, and that we will do our best not only to do the inevitable but to do everything possible to give adequate answers to categories that have been working too long without obtaining any evidence that they deserve and that we have a duty to offer. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u27	Rossi Luciano (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I declare that I want to sign both motion 683, first by Mr Lo Moro, and Amendment 682, first by Mr Barani, and Amendment 623, first by Mr Gasparri. On this issue it is important to find all the healthy forces and possible solutions to ensure attention to those who deserve it. The security and defence sector is certainly for us Italians of absolute value and of important value. On the basis of this assessment, I would therefore like to subscribe to the motions. From another point of view, since Minister Alfano truly honors us with his presence, as a demonstration of his extraordinary sensitivity on this subject, for this reason I can only thank him, drawing attention to that security measure which we would like to debate in some way. In the same way, since I am Umbrian, I want to witness a gratitude for the closeness that our communities affected by the earthquake the whole security and defence sector is witnessing with a truly extraordinary presence. I would therefore like to thank Minister Alfano and his friends in the security and defence sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u28	As you are not included in the debate, I have the floor to speak to the representative of the Government, to whom I would ask him to give an opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u29	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senate and in particular the parliamentary groups which have promoted today's debate. I think it is a debate that is far from useless, because it re-examines in the public debate the question of the centrality of the Forces of Order, their gratification, the place of the issue of security in the context of the priorities of the Government. I am sure that it is visible to everyone as in the last three years security has been a priority of the Government, not to chat, not in words, but with deeds of good, that is, with appropriations. I would ask you, Mr President, to attach to my speech some tables which are not party tables, but have come out of the accounts of the Viminale, the Department of Public Security, which testify to the increase in appropriations over the last three years with regard not only to summary figures but also specifically to operating expenses, investments and also technical and logistical investments. We have made sure that, in a time of contraction of public spending, security spending expands, and we have done so in every area because, if I attach the data relating to the increase of investments as regards also operating expenses, internal infrastructure and everything related to the organization, there is one point to which we are particularly fond, namely the exploitation of the work of our forces of order. Since we've been in the government, we've basically focused on a few goals, which I don't want to decline to avoid a long list of things, but there's one that we're and I'm particularly fond of, which is the unblocking of the turnover that, by overcoming an anglysm that I'm not fond of, means that we've started to take on the same number of people as those who retire. It used to work differently; we, in a progressive way, have overcome the hiring blockade and now, in 2016, the same number of women and men of the Forces of Order will be assumed as compared to those who retired in the previous year. This is an objective fact. What is the objective that we propose in the law of stability 2017 and also solar year 2017? Stabilization of EUR 80, reorganization of careers, renewal of contracts and new recruitment. I know it's an ace poker that doesn't know a lot of precedents in the last ten, fifteen years, but we definitely center it. We're sure to make a poker aces for the police. I want to repeat this: stabilization of the 80 euros, reorganization of careers, renewal of contracts and new recruitment. We have already decided politically on these four objectives and we will focus them economically. On the stabilisation of the EUR 80 and on the subject of the reorganization of careers we have allocated the necessary and also sufficient resources. Mr Gasparri, now in his capacity as President, referred to a ""that could have been a condition of alternative between the stabilisation of EUR 80 and the renewal of contracts. Having the vocabulary of the Italian language thousands of terms and nuances, I would like to remain in the acts also the definition given by the Accademia della Crusca - to do so, it is enough to go to the site of the Academy - of the word "i.e., ": there is a meaning of a certain type, which justifies the interpretation of President Gasparri, and there is another meaning that refers to the concept of "also". Now, I don't know which of the two meanings could have in mind the official of the MEF who has materially compiled the norm, but I am responsible for the authentic political interpretation, which is the second option of the dictionary of the Accademia della Crusca which can be found on the Internet, i.e. the word "also". We will do both: we will proceed with the stabilization of the 80 euro bonus and the reorganization of careers. On the subject of renewal of the contracts I have heard Minister Madia and, on behalf of him and the entire Government, announcement that very soon will be convened the representatives of the unions of the Forces of the order for renewal of the contracts and that the new assumptions are already in place, regarding the unblocking of the turnover referred to in the previous laws, and the new assumptions are already financed with the law of stability. I would like to make a comment on what Senator Crimi said about the lack of seriousness of this debate. In fact, when you want to deny a positive meaning you have multiple arguments to do so and Senator Crimi chose to say that this discussion is simply irrelevant. Well, to talk about the importance of our debate and reaffirming what President Gasparri has said in a relevant way (i.e. the fact that, unlike what happened in the House of Deputies, this debate takes place after the presentation of the bill of stability by the Government), I make some references. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that since 2017 resources of 1.9 million euro have been allocated to public employment contracts and that a considerable part of the total fund will be allocated to the fire department, law enforcement and armed forces sectors, so as to allow the extraordinary recruitment plan, the reorganization of careers and the stabilisation of the 80 euro bonus, which weighs on average on wages for 3.4 percent. What do I mean by this quantitative clarification? Beyond the fact that in the world of Italian public employment there are many ambitions, which I believe are all legitimate, precisely because of the political fact of the priority that the Forces of Order and the theme of security have on the agenda of the Government, the issues we are talking about here come before all the others, as far as we are concerned. The proof lies in the fact that Minister Madia is going to summon the representatives of the Forces of the Order precisely in order to affirm exactly all this and translate it from the words in deeds of Government. For the benefit of Senator Mazzoni's intervention, I would like to point out that firefighters are considered not a step higher or lower than the other Forces of Order, but at the same level. Firefighters are the flagship of Italian public aid. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]] I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for their promptness, strength, energy, quality and competence. I would like to reiterate in this House that having saved more than 200 people during the earthquake at the end of August is proof that it has no equal in Europe or in other parts of the world. I would point out to you that the rescue does not take place in a group, but one person after another and, therefore, only the timeliness and effectiveness of the intervention have been able to save more than 200 lives. We have not cut the resources of the fire department and, indeed, during this three-year period - I invite you to verify this - we have operated a number of recruitments that has no precedent in the past decades. In fact, we have frequent and also numerous recruitment windows, to the point of being able to say that we have increased the endowment of about 10 percent compared to the total of the members of the National Fire Department. I invite you to consider which other public or private administration has increased staff by 10% in a time of spending contraction. This has been possible for the fire department, to which we assure, together with the other police forces, an increase in equipment and internal infrastructure equipment (I refer precisely to the technical equipment and the means used for their action). There is another, more political, chapter that I would like to clarify from my point of view, because it is very frequent in the discussions, and that is the trend in spending and recruitment on security. I was also part of another government that approved Decree No. 78 of 2010 which blocked the turnover and cut the spending of the Forces of Order. The interior minister of the time was Maroni, not me who was at justice but I was voting, aware of that cut and injured part of the prison police. It was a time of cutting spending but the circumstances of politics and life, and also a certain perseverance, gave me the opportunity, which I have taken with great pleasure, to remedy those cuts, to relaunch investments in security and to relaunch the policy on the staff of the Forces of Order. So both things are true: there has been a period of cuts required by the economic crisis of the dramatic period 2010 - 2011 and now that things are going a little better there is the political affirmation of the priority of the Forces of Order regarding the issue of security which, in turn, is priority. I think I have said, from my point of view, a word of truth in this area. With regard to motions, the Government expresses a favourable opinion on motion 623, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators, on motion 682, tabled by Senator Barani and other senators, and on motion 683, tabled by Senator Lo Moro and other senators, to which are added the signatures of members of the People's Area (senator Luciano Rossi, I believe, spoke on behalf of the whole Group) which are also added to the other two motions. I am also opposed to all the other motions that have been tabled. Thank you again for the opportunity offered by this debate to enhance the work of the Forces of Order. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u30	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u33	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, I sincerely find it very strange that these issues should also be put into politics. We support the motion voted by the entire Chamber of Deputies and then, by chance, we say yes to the motions tabled by the majority groups, which says a lot about the mindset and the way in which we stand with regard to the problems. ALFANO Angelino, Minister of the Interior. President Gasparri is not in the majority. Tarquinio (CoR). I have spoken about the motion which refers to the motion adopted by Parliament as a whole. It is a huge limit to the policy of these times that does not really want to get into the problems. I note, at last (as opposed to the attitude of the majority towards the minority rather doubtful), what the Minister has said. I don't go back in time, because it would be useless. You have to look at facts for who they are. So I take note of the commitments that have been made, totally inadequate because the moment is what it is. We live in an overall drama in this country, unfortunately we suffer disastrous seismic events, we live in problems of general security that concern the police and other incredible. We are now at the highway robberies to the passenger buses, there is no more safety, there is the clear feeling of an absent state, especially in the South - this is a real fact that is also a limit to growth - and we are still at the palliatives. We are in a moment of enormous emergency, incredible, and we need much more recruitment because there is also the problem of immigration that raises enormous concerns and the answers are always palliative, always the same and often purely political. There is a problem that concerns the Forces of Order and the exercise of their role, and, in particular, the security that is not only personal and physical, but also that concerns the possibility of not being often indicted by a judiciary that is sometimes blind to the problems that policemen live, that are often massacred during demonstrations and it seems that first they must die and then they can possibly defend themselves. It is not possible: on this one does not hear a word, one continues to stutter and to make only politics, in my opinion, of low profile, so I remain unbridled and remain in my positions. We will exalt the Minister and the Government and see what will happen in the law of stability and what will actually be done. For now we consider it insufficient not because there are resources or not, but because at this moment the priority of this country is: security, security, security. This is the real data on which almost everything depends. Not wanting to see this and imagining election ads is absolutely ridiculous. I'm not a publicity guy, and I'm totally unhinged. As far as our motion is concerned, I do not understand the no (perhaps because there is a reference to the judiciary). What's the no? Why? It is only a political reason; I am sorry to say that, dear Minister Alfano, but that is the case and this leaves us once again to be overwhelmed. This approach to problems sincerely does not evoke what the future can be about what we have said. However we will follow it and we will be happy if everything that has been indicated will be done; but this is totally insufficient for the moment that the country lives and for the answers that must be given to our Forces of Order, to the firemen and to the Carabinieri, who must have the certainty that they are not only paid in the right way for what they risk, but also protected in the exercise of their function, because this often does not happen. I repeat that they are massacred and often even indicted; if it is true that that policeman had to pay for his ticket at the hospital, we are at the comedians in this country. If there is no such awareness - I tell you with sincerity, Minister - and if the state in the South often does not exist, first of all in terms of security, which South must grow? What South must grow, if the citizen is no longer protected in any way and is in the grip of the underworld, organized or not? This is the real fact, but you don't say a word about it and there are only palliatives. Here we need at least 20,000 more cops: this is the real fact that we have to face. And we're gonna get out of this. It's okay, we'll continue our fight, without bias, just seeing the facts. If anything, in April or May we will ask you what has been done to date, hoping that what you have said will be done and that you will add something else. I am referring to legislation, as I have already said, namely the protection of the police and the Carabinieri in the exercise of their duties.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u36	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are faced with a situation, the one that concerns the police, which is something absolutely unbecoming and shameful for a civil state. We find ourselves in a very difficult historical situation: the increase, in sensation and numbers, of predatory crimes, a difficulty in managing security throughout the territory and the problem of immigration (we always talk about this, but in the end it is a problem that exists and is very serious). Immigration means not only a reception system, but also a control system, which must be done on Italians and foreigners. The police today almost in unison complain about difficulties and deficiencies in equipment, men and means and, last but not least, a problem such as that relating to pay. To find oneself with a suspension of the contractual renewals for years, which has been sanctioned and declared illegitimate from the constitutional point of view, puts the Government and the majority in front of a huge responsibility: that of removing what is unconstitutional. It is therefore necessary as soon as possible to arrange, rectify and overcome the blockage of contractual renewals, so that police officers can have as much as 150 euros in extra paychecks per month. Nowadays, in our condition, for a family, for an agent, for a person, 150 euros a month mean so much, they mean almost everything. Instead, we are faced with a paralysis, which is not given a solution. Even on the occasion of the recent events that have occurred (i.e. the natural disasters and the tragic earthquake that hit Central Italy), the Forces of the Order have demonstrated a great altruism and a great self-denial, regardless of those poor wages that eventually bring home at the end of the month, risking - as you can see from the news - not only their own health, but also their personal freedom, because it seems that, when you have to incriminate someone, you always have to do it against policemen and carabinieri, when they do actions. Instead, we, as institutions, should protect these figures in every way, because, at a time when a criminal knows that the agent is untouchable, that agent acquires authority as well as authority. On the other hand, even in this last budgetary manoeuvre we are faced with indications that the resources allocated will be totally inadequate to supplement the salary and, therefore, to comply with the Constitutional Court's ruling. Those few miserable money, which comes to 7,5-8 euros a month, are almost an offense to these people; they are equivalent to two packs of cigarettes per month. Not to mention the whole turnover block problem. These few injections of new, presumed, recruitments do not in any way ensure the necessary replacement within the State Police. In the end, taking into account retirements, integration, although done, still leaves a serious survey of staff. Gentlemen, these people, these officers are owed something. The state owes these people something. We have been through difficult times, such as terrorism and the Mafia: we have to rely on these people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That sounds amazing to us. How does the government not share with us what we have asked for in the commitments of our motion? The renewal of contracts, the elimination of the forecast of the abolition of 300 security guards in the territory, the continuation of the reorganization of careers, the resources for the modernization of the means and equipment, the reintegration of organic plants. How does the Government express a negative opinion on these conclusions, which are not of small politics, but are issues of common sense; not only of common sense, but of real necessity for the support itself, the backbone of our State and for the protection of the security of our territory [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u39	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister: our Group is satisfied with his statements. Hearing in this House that there are the stabilisation of the 80 euros, the reorganization of careers, economic adjustments, the unblocking of contractual renewals, new recruitments and that, however, there is a response of 1.8 billion euros to the decision of the Constitutional Court n. 178 of 2015 for renewal in the general public employment, makes us believe that, for the first time, a government has done its duty. The colleagues who preceded me were lucky enough to be represented at the Ministry of the Interior, but such widespread interventions, at 360 degrees and massive towards the Forces of the Order, have never been done. We believe, therefore, that the criticism of a government, a minister who, in fact, has demonstrated with data, is not justified. Taking up the words of my colleague Mazzoni of our Group, who urged the Minister on fire brigades (which the President of the Republic, Mr Mattarella, rightly awarded the gold medal, which they deserve for all the efforts they have shown), we believe that, in a moment of employment crisis such as the current one, more than increasing the recruitment of a government by 10% can not do. We invite you to continue along this path, because we are at your side. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u42	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, we will not ask the Minister why he calls on the Senate to vote in a schizophrenic way (to vote in favour of the same thing and against the same thing at the same sitting) because we understand the reason for this: a somewhat short view of politics and, above all, of the respect that is due to public workers, in particular, to those of the Forces of Order and the Armed Forces. I say this because, unfortunately, this will probably prevent the motion by the majority and the motion by you yourself, Mr Gasparri, from obtaining the unanimity of this House. In other words, the Minister proposes the division of Parliament on a subject on which Parliament is truly united, but it is known that politics is all to be understood and sometimes it is also difficult to understand. What do we propose, Mr President? We propose that immediate action be taken to comply with the Constitutional Court's ruling. Beware that the Constitutional Court intervenes to remove the effects of a decision taken at the time by a Government and a majority of which Minister Alfano himself belonged. Therefore, he first removed and then split Parliament when Parliament wants to return something, because he has a fault to make it up to us that we do not have: that of having deprived for years all public employees of collective bargaining, in particular the employees of the Armed Forces and the Forces of the Order, incurring in the sanction of the Constitutional Court also because the suspension of the negotiation goes hand in hand with the impossibility of any recovery. The suspension of the negotiation has created a damage that the Government cannot and does not want to repair today, because the extent of the economic improvements that would have been produced with the collective bargaining regularly in operation require a financial disbursement that the Government is not available to do today; on the contrary, you yourself President said that the financial allocations provided for in the law of stability are very far away, very far from being able to fully cover the damage already done. We will therefore vote in favour of our motion, with which we call for the renewal of contracts in the public service, with particular reference to the Fire Department, the Forces of Order and the Armed Forces, a financial envelope that is also significantly destined to compensate for the damage that unfortunately created a majority of which the Minister was a member and a Government of which he was a supporter: a very serious damage that has also generated disaffection and a moral injury in the relations between the State, who governs it, and the Forces of Order and the Armed Forces that defend it. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u45	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Minister, today's motions for resolutions are rightly aimed at drawing the Government's attention to an unresolved issue. I believe that the motions are always useful, but I believe that the current Government has been particularly attentive and diligent in considering the requests and needs manifested above all by the Fire Department and the Forces of Order. This attention has therefore already been demonstrated. The decision of the Constitutional Court n° 178 of 2015, which established the constitutional illegitimacy of the regulatory framework on which the suspension of collective bargaining was based, has been recalled several times. These are rules designed to achieve savings in the resources of the state budget, at a historical-political time when the development of public resource expenditure is at the centre of the attention of Europe and the governments that have followed in recent years. The motions deal with the renewal of the contracts of the Fire Departments, of the Forces of the Order and of the Armed Forces, with the punctual request to preview the allocation of the relative financial resources within the maneuver of budget for 2017. Surely the theme of the renewal of contracts of police forces and fire department is not new to the political debate and this Government has shown attention to the sector since last year. I like to remember, in fact, the bonus previewed from the law of stability 2016 destined to the staff of the police corps, the police of the fire, the Armed Forces and the captainies of port: the bonus of almost 1.000 euros has represented a sign of the recognition of the engagement of those men and those women in uniform in confronting the exceptional requirements of national security. Moreover, if, as duly recalled by the motion at the first signature of Senator Gasparri, it will be the task of the legislator to give new impetus to the ordinary contractual dialectics in the public employment, choosing the ways and forms that best reflect its nature, I emphasize that the bill of budget 2017 already identifies the resources necessary for any initiative of type of negotiation. Article 52 of the bill, in fact, allocates almost 2 billion euros for public employment for next year and over 2 and a half billion since 2018. These resources will be intended primarily to increase the funds already provided for in existing legislation under the 2016 Stability Act by EUR 300 million per year and to finance the economic improvements of staff employed by state administrations under public law. Therefore, in the framework of the above-mentioned appropriations, the money to be allocated to new permanent recruitments within the State administrations, including the police and the fire department, will be identified, taking into account the specific requirements necessary to meet the needs of the service of particular importance and urgency. Finally, an increase in the resources provided for in current legislation for the reorganization of the careers of police personnel, the Armed Forces and the Firefighters Corps, with the aim of fully implementing the delegation carried out by the rules of the reform of the public administration. These resources may alternatively be used to refinance for the coming year the aforementioned extraordinary contribution provided for by the 2016 Stability Act. (at 12:38 a.m.) It is clearly a signal of strong attention to these categories of workers who every day, as we see every day, face risks to protect public safety and the safety of people in an extremely turbulent environmental and social context, so they deserve the attention that Parliament devotes to their work, their commitment and often their sacrifice. This indication gives the figure of the path that is intended to be made and represents the element that will open the way to further interventions of support to sectors of the public employment, very often neglected by the subjects who should instead exalt the specific mission. Therefore, the People's Area Group, in line with the commitments made by the majority and reflected in the budget maneuver, will vote in favour of all the commitments aimed at protecting the great work of the Fire Departments, the Forces of Order and the Armed Forces for our country. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u46	We greet and welcome the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education (Rugger II) of Ariano Irpino, in the province of Avellino, who are today visiting the Senate and attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u49	CRIMI (M5S). Minister, you said that my words are wrong because it is not true that this debate is useless. And then he added that I am wrong in saying that they are useless motions so made, because in fact they do not lead to any result, and that's why he snubbed everything that the government has done. Here we have to make it clear: either what we do is useful, in the sense that we are seriously dealing with an unresolved issue in this House - as Mr Mancuso said just now - trying to find a solution; or, on the contrary, the problem is solved. So, either our work is useless, because you said that everything is fine; or, on the contrary, if our work is useful and engages the Government, it means that you are probably lying and the beautiful slide picture that you represented does not correspond to truth. If I see a certain mobilization on the part of all political forces to push the Government to do actions, to do something concrete, I can only assume that that "concrete" has not been in the last three years, otherwise there would be no need to discuss something that has already been done by this Government. Obviously something's wrong. And I'm more convinced than the second hypothesis, which is that you're painting a picture that doesn't correspond to reality. But the first hypothesis is also true because, despite the fact that the picture does not correspond to reality, even our debate and the result of the motions and their vote will not lead to any change, unfortunately. You have expressed your opposition to some of the motions and your support for others. In particular, you have expressed an opinion against a motion, signed by the 5 Star Movement, which envisaged committing the Government to significantly and structurally increase the economic and financial resources allocated to the security and public order sector. You have expressed your opposition, and you will of course be voting against, to ensure, through the most appropriate administrative measures, that police personnel are constantly trained. This, Mr Alfano, is what you have voted against today: that is a set of proposals which is nothing more than what this Parliament unanimously can only approve. I hope that, despite the contrary opinion, those who read the motions will take responsibility for voting against all the points I have just mentioned. Thank you all. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u52	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I do not think that the debate is useless, because - I say this to some of my colleagues - we sometimes have debates on questions where few Members are present, and questions are an act, if we want, even weaker than motions. So, discussing motions is still useful, because there are addresses. We know that these guidelines do not always involve binding and stringent decisions, nor is this Parliament: they make statements and each of us is called - it is believed - to respond to them. That the debate has been useful - I say this above all to Senator Crimi, if you have the courtesy to listen - demonstrates the fact that our Group of Forza Italia has submitted a similar motion to the House and the Senate. For reasons of timetable - as I said in my previous speech - the House was able to discuss it on 11 October, before the law of stability, while we are discussing it on 8 November, with the law of stability still in progress. I delude myself, I believe and I hope that our act of parliamentary direction has also directed the Government, which had already expressed this will, at least in the words of Minister Alfano during hearings held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at the Senate, to make poker, which I will be speaking about shortly. We'll see. At this point there are appropriations, which I do not think are enough to cover the four needs, but we have moved the waters, which will allow Parliament's groups to propose additional appropriations. At least my group - I know of course - is already doing so in the House, where we are in the advanced stage of discussing the law of stability. If this doesn't work out in the House, I'll do it in the Senate. Therefore, having listened to the words of the Minister of the Interior, if we were to find a poor coverage of the figures, we will remind him that in the Senate he said some things coram populous. And I remember the numbers coming to an end. That is why we have tabled a slightly light motion, in the sense that we have proposed that funds should be allocated. But I appeal to the Minister of the Interior. In the House, Minister Alfano, many motions have been approved, and so I think a more generous judgment can be useful. The opinion on motions can also be corrected. I understand that some of the details put forward by other colleagues can create constraints that the Government does not feel to assume. That is precisely why we have tabled a motion which commits us to allocating only the funds of the law, because we did so in October and we have left the parliamentary act in this way; then everyone can do what he wants. I therefore appeal to you to re-evaluate the motions of this House as a whole: then on a few points, as happened to the House, you can ask for a split vote. It's a practice we use. It would be useful if the House were to make a broader statement, and that is something I would ask you to consider. However, our Group will generously evaluate all the various motions. That said, I conclude, Minister Alfano. Before I used the metaphor of Totò, which may seem banal, of Napoleon's coat that served to make a huge shopping; the coat was not Napoleon's. I do not know whether the current wording of Article 52 will allow us to do what you called a poker: reorder, 80 euros, contracts and recruitment. Of course, if you do a little hiring, a little contract, a little reordering and a little bit of the rest, you can eventually do it. It is a costly commitment that concerns the public service. And I would also like to mention the fire department, on which our Group has also spent all its words to recognize in recent calamities the efforts of all the armed and police forces. It is undeniable that firefighters in these cases demonstrate a heroism that must be specifically emphasized and that is part of the contractual match. So wish you, Minister, for the battles you will have to wage, because the funds under Article 52 are not enough. We will propose further measures. As you said in favour of our motion, as happened in the House, I hope that you will also give a favourable opinion on the amendments that I fear will be necessary. I see poker difficult at the moment and you are not going to make any bluffs. In fact, I remember that we speak coram populo. The citizens also listen to us, and on the appropriate channels of dissemination not only the parliamentarians of the 5 Star Movement and therefore I also greet them. But I remember that the unions also listen to us and look. We therefore take note of the favourable opinion that has been expressed, but we will also vote in favour of other motions, in the hope that the Minister will be able to make a broader assessment of this debate which serves to give direction, ladies and gentlemen. And some results have already been achieved. That's not all, but we hope to move on. The last appeal concerns - I read it in the newspapers - the policeman injured in the clashes in Florence who has to pay the ticket for treatment. Renzi, who took a lot of money at the yes dinner in the referendum, at least pay that ticket with a part of the money received. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u55	COLLINA (PD). Madam President, on behalf of the Democratic Party, I welcome what was said by Minister Alfano, because I believe it fully represents the work done by this Government which has reversed a trend and has certainly worked to recover a situation. We have certainly not recovered everything that has been lost in the past, but we have worked in a moment of great difficulty for our country and in situations that have made it necessary to strengthen the principals of the Forces of Order, which I quote because I think it is important to remember them. This year we had a Jubilee, which involved certain requirements. We have had to face a terrorist wave that has greatly engaged our country's police forces in a preventive action that I believe has produced significant results that are before everyone's eyes. 12:49 a.m. (Follow Collina). Unfortunately, we had to face natural disasters, which forced us to support unexpected and important efforts, in which, however, the Forces of Order and the Fire Departments have shown great organization and dedication to their duty. In recent years the Government has increased its resources, not only for the security sector, but also for investments in capital goods. The strength given by people is important, but you also need to be equipped with state-of-the-art tools to do your job. These are concrete elements that need to be strengthened and stabilised today. I want to call certain things by their names. The 80 euro bonus has represented in the history of this country something absolutely immeasurable with any contractual renewal that has ever been there. Therefore, let us take into account the concrete effects and concrete actions of this Government, which is responsible for a set of actions to be carried out. I quote just one aspect, which I consider to be fundamental. We respond on several fronts to certain emergencies. When we talk about a euro for security and a euro for culture, it means that we take charge not only of responding to emergencies, but also of investing for the future of our country. Therefore, I renew the will of the Democratic Party Group to vote favorably on the motions presented according to the Government's instructions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u56	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 623. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent motions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Gasparri and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion 623. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 654. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous electronic ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 654, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 678. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous electronic ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 678, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 679. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous electronic ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 679, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 681.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u59	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would also like to accept your suggestion - I must confess - that we should vote on our motion for a separate part of the motion, meaning the whole part of the premises and then vote on the part of the committment. I would ask the House to read out its commitment to express itself with conviction. [[Applause from Senator Lucidi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u60	Since there is an opposition to this proposal, the House must decide by show of hands whether to allow the split vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). What is the opposite group? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Democratic Party Group. I put the motion for a separate vote to the vote. It's not approved. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We shall therefore proceed with the vote on motion No 681. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 681, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 682. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 682, tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 683. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 683, tabled by Senator Lo Moro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u63	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, last week in Genoa an entire family was exterminated. A man killed his wife and two little children before he took his own life. We learn that large debts caused by gambling were hidden behind this tragedy. Out of the fuss of current affairs, we cannot forget it, because this time it was not slot machines. ==References====External links==* Official website Why don't you use a term that we all understand? ==References====External links==* Official website It's nothing but harmless. First of all, they are the first gambling products that attract minors: 51 percent have already started to venture and at the top of the children's preferences there are just scratch marks and wins. Secondly, they are wagered at low latency, i.e. they pass a few seconds between the purchase and the outcome of the bet, and we know, therefore, that they have high power to give addiction. Thirdly, they present several tricks to deceive the mind and human emotions in the losing cards - for example - oddly frequent combinations are similar to those that would make you win and that induce you to think - wow - that you are close to winning. Or the cards dispense a myriad of microwinnings to make us feel good and make us feel that winning is easy, just as the advertising says. If I bet 5 euros and receive 5 euros, I won nothing, but in the meantime I'm given a little congratulations. It is known that this is how we want to try again and, punctually, 95% of people buy a new ticket and maybe another one, because the desire remains. It is, therefore, an industry that studies the human mind and its natural mechanisms, to twist them against people for the benefit of the most unscrupulous business. There is no such thing as a good chance, and the newspapers must make that clear. When the system is designed specifically to hurt, it cannot be argued that the weak are the ones who fall for it. You must accept that gambling is, in itself, capable of undermining the balance of people. And this is demonstrated precisely by this case, because the author of the desperate gesture was a police officer, a person whom colleagues defined as balanced and who also for the State was able to manage a weapon at the service of the citizens. So, I wonder who the murderous hand really is and what responsibilities a government has that lets this trade spread, without even having the scrupulousness to ban its advertising. Mr President, more than a year ago I filed a motion that commits the Government to include the advertising ban in the conventions (I grant you the management of the SuperEnalotto game, but you don't have to advertise; I grant you the management of the scratch cards and wins but you don't have to advertise). It is enough to attract young victims with diseducational reclamations and I think of Tourist forever. I address the Secretary of State Baretta: there can be no counterpart to the ban on advertising, it is the minimum of decency. Everything else is a scandal. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-716.ana.u64	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.02 p.m.
