ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2550, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u5	Madam President, the draft law in title, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, brings the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 168 of 31 August 2016. In the course of the examination in the course of the conversion, the other branch of Parliament, in addition to having inserted two new articles, Articles 1-a and 7-a, has made numerous changes to the text of the original decree-law. Chapter I, composed of Articles 1 to 6, intervenes on the staff of the Court of Cassation in order to strengthen it and allow the maintenance in service of the summits; changes the procedure in Cassation; introduces measures of efficiency for the judicial offices, aimed mainly at ensuring the rapid coverage of the vacant offices; introduces measures to strengthen the surveillance offices. More in detail, Article 1, introducing two further paragraphs in Article 115 of Royal Decree No 12 of 1941, provides that the magistrates employed in the office of the maximum and the role, who are judges with merit functions, may exceptionally be employed to compose the judicial colleges, both civil and criminal, of the Court of Cassation in order to strengthen the organizational garrisons necessary for a faster disposal of the backward. Temporary application must take into account the tables of the Court's organisation and the requirements of the Office for the Public Prosecutor's Office. The article in its original wording limited the possibility of carrying out judicial functions of legitimacy to magistrates who had at the Office of the maximum a service of at least two years; the Chamber has further limited the subjective scope of application of the provision, limiting this possibility only to magistrates who have achieved at least the third assessment of professionalism and setting a three-year (non-renewable) limit to application. The new Article 1-a, introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, makes a number of changes to the Cassation procedure. These changes essentially reflect the content of the principles of delegation provided for in article 1, paragraph 2, letter c) of the Act Senate 2284 (Delegation for the reform of the civil process), already approved by the Chamber and currently under examination by the Commission Justice. In particular, paragraph 1 of the provision generalizes the use of the treatment in the chamber of council in civil proceedings that take place before the simple sections of the Court and modifies the so-called procedure of filter in Cassation. Paragraph 2 of Article 1-a contains a transitional provision providing that the reform of the cassation procedure applies to appeals lodged after the entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree-law and to appeals for which the hearing or meeting in the chamber of council has not yet been established. Article 2, paragraph 1, amending Article 73 of Decree-Law No 69 of 2013, extends the provision of training internships at the Court of Cassation and the general prosecutor at the Court of Cassation, establishing that the training activity of the admitted to the internship is carried out in collaboration with the National Council forensics, as well as with the schools of specialization for the legal professions. The paragraphs 2 to 5 of Article 2 intervene on the discipline of the competition for ordinary magistrates, allowing the appointment of candidates even beyond the number of places banned in competition, in view of the actual requirements of covering the offices, and exceptionally reducing, from eighteen to twelve months, the duration of the internship of the magistrates who will be appointed following the competitions already banned (in 2014 and 2015), in order to allow them to carry out judicial functions as soon as possible; it is with the exception of the judges who won the competition reserved for the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, appointed at the end of 2015. The Chamber of Deputies intervened on paragraph 3 in order to reduce to one month the duration of the theoretical internship at the High School of the judiciary (the decree-law provided for two months) and consequently extend to eleven months (instead of the planned ten) the internship at the judicial offices. Article 3 lays down provisions on the subsequent transformation of magistrates, making the transfer of the ordinary magistrate to another seat (or the assignment to other functions) subject to a four-year period of stay (instead of the previous three-year period) to the previous office. In the course of the examination at the other branch of Parliament it was specified that these provisions do not apply to the magistrates assigned in the first place to the outcome of the internship who have assumed the actual possession of the office for at least three years on the date of entry into force of the decree law, nor with regard to the procedures of transfer to other headquarters. Article 4 lays down provisions for the efficiency of surveillance offices and the prohibition on the allocation of staff of the administration of justice to other administrations. Article 5, paragraph 1, in order to ensure the continuity of the superior and managerial apical duties at the Court of Cassation and the general prosecutor at the same Court, provides for the detention in service until 31 December 2017 for those who have not completed the 72nd year of age at the date of 31 December 2016 and who would have been retired during the period between the aforementioned date and 30 December 2017. Article 6 intervenes on the organic role of the ordinary judiciary to reduce the number of judges with first and second non-directive functions by 52 units and to increase the number of judges with first and second non-directive duties. Article 7 amends certain provisions of the code of the administrative process referred to in Legislative Decree No 104 of 2010, relating to the digital domicile, the possible derogation from the rule of the electronic filing of procedural documents and the computerized copies of procedural documents. Article 7-a, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, intervenes on the provisions implementing the code of the administrative process to include Article 13-a, under which the parties will have to draw up the appeal and other procedural acts in compliance with dimensional limits that will be dictated by decrees of the President of the Council of State, at the outcome of a procedure for consulting the categories of professionals concerned, by the end of this year. Article 8 of the Decree-Law establishes the office for the administrative process along the lines of the model introduced into ordinary justice. Article 9 lays down provisions for the efficiency of administrative justice, providing for a total increase of 53 staff units, to be contracted without a time limit by public competition Article 10 regulates the extension of the effects of detention in the service of administrative and accounting magistrates and state lawyers within the same time limits as those laid down for ordinary magistrates. Finally, Chapter III, composed of Articles 11 and 12, sets out the financial and final provisions. At its meeting on 12 October the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs delivered a non-obstacle opinion, with comments referring to Articles 5 and 10, which are set out in the Annex. The debate in the Committee on Justice - which took place at the afternoon and night sessions on 11 October, the sitting on 12 October and the afternoon and night sessions on 17 October - focused mainly on Articles 1, 1-a, 3, 7, 7, 7, and 10. The Commission approved the text without amendment at the night sitting on 17 October. I would ask the Presidency to attach the text of the report, which I have summarized.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u6	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u7	Madam President, the remarks for which it would be appropriate not to proceed with the examination of this draft law of conversion are few and already well known certainly to all the members of the Commission Justice, and shortly to the whole House. These are statements of inconstitutionality, which relate to the violation both of the principle of the right of defence provided for in Article 24 of the Constitution and of other rules of the Charter of Rights as regards the regulation of the roles and functions of the judiciary. I refer to Articles 5 and 10 of the draft law, which, in the wake of an annual extension - we are at the third age for the retirement of Italian magistrates - provide only for some apical offices of the ordinary judiciary, accounting and administrative an extension for those who will not complete by 31 December of the current year the seventy-twoth year of age to be kept in service until 2017. I remember that everything was born in 2014, when the Government decided to lower the retirement age from the 75th to the 70th year of age, then realizing that, in this way, hundreds of vacancies were created throughout Italy in the roles of the judiciary. A first extension was then made to 31 December 2015; a second to 31 December 2016 and now we are to the third, with which the force of this rule is shifted by a further year, always based on the criterion of the seventy-second year of age. The unacceptable novelty of this rule, however, is that the detention in service concerns only the apical offices of the Court of Cassation and, keeping the age limit at seventy years, also the summits of administrative and accounting justice. All this goes beyond any reasonable criterion which - as is well known - must inform every legislative production and entails a clear disparity of treatment within the roles of the judiciary, since it exproprates the Supreme Council of the judiciary of its constitutionally planned task of arranging recruitment and assignments. In addition, all other magistrates, including those who hold managerial or semi-directive roles in the ordinary judiciary of merit and not of legitimacy, would be excluded from this rule. Finally, there is the violation of Article 97 of the Constitution, which should require compliance with the principle of sound public administration. In our view, however, there is something quite paradoxical: the first Commission has resigned an opinion which - as the rapporteur has mentioned - although it is formally not an obstacle - we are aware of the balance to which the majority must resort, but it is to be read - and noting the same problems as I referred to, is essentially negative. Articles 5 and 10 of the bill, as formulated, present critical profiles for which the 1st Senate Commission calls for an assessment of the deletion or amendment of the rules under consideration. We're really at the paradox. This House could dismiss a rule which contains clearly violating provisions of constitutional principles, with a clear warning in the opinion of the 1st Commission, which, although politically impossible, expressed a non-obstacle: explicit reference is made to the violation of Articles 104 and 107 of the Constitution with the maintenance in the service of the magistrates. We are really - I repeat - paradoxical. If the Government raises a question of trust in the approval of this decree-law, we will reach the peaks that we have already experienced in this legislature and that should make the scandal and the need to abandon a political role that this Government would obviously not be able to maintain, having to resort in such a systematic way to the forcing of the vote of confidence, all the more so if in the matter of justice and magistrates, and that it would give us one of the darkest periods of parliamentary history. There are also other profiles of constitutional illegitimacy, such as the introduction, in Article 1-a, of an unusual violation in the right of defence: for the appeal for cassation, the parties will be forced, once filed the appeal (in civil and non-criminal matters), to face in the dark a possible declaration of inadmissibility of the appeal. While now a statue of inadmissibility or manifest unfoundedness of an appeal for cassation may be subject to verification within the offices of the Supreme Court, in the text in force the engraving disappears where it is expected that the president of the section, albeit concisely, exposes the reasons by virtue of which, in the chamber of council, a possible declaration of inadmissibility will be discussed. Well, this inscription disappears and remains as a simulacrous possibility by the defenders to resign memories within five days before the hearing. But you understand well that resigning memories on which to expose a contrary thesis will be an absolutely empty reminder, because you will not know the reasons by virtue of which there has been a first assessment of inadmissibility. This clearly means discouraging and not wanting to solve the problems of the judicial burden, in this case of the Court of Cassation, once again - and according to a tradition that has been perpetuated for years - kicking the citizen away and protecting his rights. In the area of administrative law, then, we have really reached incredible heights: by introducing - hopefully not - Article 13-b, a number of pages will be established, indicated in an "x" number, within which it will contain what can be the subject of deduction and motivation to base the administrative appeal, obviously with the subsequent condition that everything that will be written beyond the "x" page can be simply ignored by the judge and not be subject to scrutiny, evaluation, rejection or acceptance, nor can it be reason for appealing the failure to examine the reasons beyond the "x" page, that is, a number of pages that will be determined later. Not even Rabelais, who in the sixteenth century stigmatized certain summary justice satirically, with the figure of the judge who decided by pulling the dice, all the smaller the more complicated the matter, would have never even imagined such an aberration. To approve such a rule is the death of every fair trial; it is the denial of the possibility of asserting, before an impartial judge, its legitimate interests and subjective rights. At this point, you do not make yourself aware of such absurdity. In the draft law of conversion under consideration, other amendments have been introduced by the Chamber of Deputies which humiliate the right of defence, with an equally non-urgent reform of the proceedings before the Civil Cassation, which I referred to earlier. Therefore, the reasons that require the declaration not to proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 2550 seem solid to us. Don't make yourself an accomplice. As I say personally, as a citizen and as a member of this political group, I would also like to invite my colleagues to do the same. But since our invitations are now falling into emptiness and it is useless to invite, I simply say no. Don't make any more trouble for justice, and let's all say no together. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u8	He asked Senator Caliendo to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a moment of attention, because we have presented the question of constitutionality to our examination in the hope that there will be a rethinking of the Government and the majority. The amendments we have tabled are not obstructive and do not contradict the choices made by the Government. They are amendments to improve the text in the constitutional sense, so as to prevent the necessary rules from being dropped by the Constitutional Court. Any judge, in fact, in applying the laws chooses the norm and interpretation more consistent with the Constitution. A legislator, therefore, when he has the possibility to correct and make constitutionally correct a rule, has the obligation to provide. I shall confine myself to a few aspects: as regards Article 1-a, which has been introduced into the Chamber of Deputies and which is not consistent with the decree-law for the principles established by the Constitutional Court, which I do not want to repeat now because each of you has full knowledge of it, there is no doubt that it is inconsistent with the subject of the decree. However, we have merely tabled two amendments - I am addressing you, Mr Best Undersecretary - which tend to guarantee the right of defence and the contradictory right also in the Council Chambers at the Court of Cassation. We have merely posed this problem. With regard to Article 3, it contains an error which makes the rule unconstitutional. You realized to the House that there was a need to ensure, with a transitional rule, that those who had already matured three years as judicial hearers were legitimized with respect to the expected increase in the period of legitimacy, which becomes four years. Do you realize that this leads to incoherence and a strong contrast with magistrates who have more years and have already matured the three years? In this case you would create a privilege and imbalance within the judiciary, due to unequal treatment. It's an abnormal thing. There was not one colleague in the Commission who did not stress such an inconsistency. However, if an amendment is proposed to correct all this, the Government, instead of accepting the aid that comes from the opposition, does not respond and does not explain why it does not accept such an amendment. Article 7 also provides for a rule which alters the balance between the judges of the TAR and the judges of the Council of State within the Executive Board of Administrative Justice. We have tabled an amendment that makes the rule consistent with the principles of the Constitution with that balance, but we have not had an answer. Finally, with regard to Article 5, Senator Buccarella also spoke a few minutes ago about the balance of the first Commission. In fact, Senator Buccarella, it is the political intelligence of President Finocchiaro that has led to two coherent statements. Firstly, the current text certainly presents unconstitutional profiles for the unequal treatment envisaged, but President Finocchiaro knows - as I know and as you know - that the extension is necessary. It is necessary because - as you will remember - when the decree-law was approved in 2014 I had tabled an amendment, appreciated by the majority but not accepted, which provided to stagger over the years what was foreseen by the norm, until 2017. This would have meant that the extension would not be necessary, but would have to guarantee a different reality with the closure of the retirement age of the magistrates. To lower such a rule in public administration is possible. It is not possible in the judiciary, against those who administer the jurisdiction. Either you're incompetent or you don't realize. Last year you made an extension that was correct: it did not create unequal treatment and only concerned management offices and semi-directives. Mr Secretary-General and rapporteur, we have tabled two amendments: one repeats the same extension last year, also resolving the problems of equal treatment with respect to the extension of the management offices (there are not many, as you know, but very few, even if they extend to those of substance). We have also ensured, with regard to those who were then to participate late in the management office, that the second paragraph of Article 5 is equal, i.e. that the service time which must be ensured before the retirement date should be reduced by one year. I wonder, then, because the three aspects highlighted regarding constitutionality can be immediately corrected and we can have a measure voted unanimously, what is the reason for the impediment. It is certainly not the judiciary, because the National Association of Judges has been critical, but at the same time it calls for a general measure to extend to the seventy-two years of age. We, with the two amendments, have moved, while taking into account what the Association has said, from the perspective of the Government: if the Government does not take the opportunity to clarify the reasons for which it does not consider rules that make the measure constitutionally correct, there must be something that escapes us. The ignorance of the Government and the rapporteur of our position, consistent with the principle of having to carry out our function in the general interest of the country and the citizens, in the absence of an explanation of reason, has led us to propose the question of constitutionality. But if, by hypothesis, you were to come to your senses today and, instead of proposing trusts, correct the constitutional problems highlighted, you would have a measure unanimously accepted. The judge can solve them through consistent interpretation, but you have a duty to eliminate constitutional problems, even if raised only as a doubt on one side of Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u10	He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u11	Madam President, we are faced with yet another decree-law on justice. In particular, the measure under consideration today reveals extremely critical profiles. It is yet another emergency regulation that deprives Parliament of its prerogatives, including on matters for which it is not really possible to identify the necessary requirements for urgency, which are not within the meaning of Article 77 of the Constitution. We believe, indeed, that we also point out the decision of the Constitutional Court - we continue to recall No. 171 of 2007 - which points out the obvious lack of factual presuppositions of the decree-law, according to which, then, the same illegality and the consequent ineffectiveness of the norm are pronounced. Among other things, we see that within the measure we are talking about provisions for the efficiency of the administrative process. Now, let's remember that here there are not even the requirements and factual findings, because a few months ago we approved here Decree-Law No 117 of 30 June 2016, precisely on the same problems. But the most painful point of the decree-law is that we come to discuss a proposal for amendment clearly unconstitutional. The rule provides for the maintenance in service of some magistrates (it is specified only by some of the magistrates) extending the retirement age. This creates clear situations of unequal treatment; from this point of view, the rule cannot but be regarded as vitiated by constitutional illegitimacy. But let us remember here, at the same time, the opinion expressed by the First Permanent Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Senate; I feel obliged, gentlemen, to recall these words at once, inter alia taking into account the same value profile expressed by the First Committee on Constitutional Affairs here in the Senate, where there are some distinguished and distinguished colleagues, who have the title and preparation to be able to express themselves on this subject. I read the opinion, where we talk about Articles 5 and 10 of the measure: the provisions referred to present critical aspects, with reference to the principle of equality and to the constitutional canon of reasonableness, according to which (...) the law must regulate in the same way equal situations and in a rationally different different situations. On the other hand, the rules referred to in Articles 5 and 10 refer to the extension of the period of stay in service only for the apical figures, and for this reason, according to the words of the 1st Commission, they are therefore deemed to be discriminatory. On the other hand, the 1st Commission also states that the initiatives taken to define the high level of litigation pending before the Court of Cassation are not such as to justify such a significant differentiation, since these requirements concern the judicial system as a whole. These are the very words of the 1st Commission, which has clearly highlighted the profiles of constitutional illegitimacy. But there is one issue that I believe and we believe may be even more serious in some respects, that we absolutely need to go deeper and that we cannot pretend that it does not exist. The first Commission itself says that critical aspects are not only those relating to the principle of equality; in fact, the provisions are not even consistent with Articles 104 and 107 of the Constitution, on the basis of which the judiciary constitutes an autonomous and independent order, within which judges distinguish themselves only by differences of functions. What does not happen in this bill of conversion of the decree-law. Therefore, this obvious and manifest inconstitutionality, already noted, cannot be insignificant in this Chamber and in this debate; these two rules cannot exist in our order and for this reason they must be totally expunged. We, as the Group of the North Legacy, have proposed amendments that have been deleted precisely in relation to Articles 5 and 10. We must really consider that the incorporation of an unconstitutional rule into the legal order will certainly create a judicial problem, because those who do not benefit from this treatment will have the title and legitimacy to challenge the rule and to detect the lack of constitutionality. This creates problems of difficult understanding, especially because they concern a particularly qualified judiciary and in the eyes of our citizens, magistrates who hold apical positions such as those of the Cassazione and of the Council of State must be immune, even according to the common sense, from any kind of doubt and misunderstanding about their permanence and their figure. If we start to say that they are constitutionally illegitimate norms that allow the magistrate of cassation to remain in service, we create a contradiction in terms that the country does not do well. Finally, we must stop constantly resorting to urgent decrees. If, unfortunately, a vote of confidence were even reached on an urgent decree on justice (the umpteenth urgent decree on the system of justice), it would be a clear invasion and a constant arrogance exercised by the Government over Parliament. For this reason, we are asking that the draft law No 2550 should not be examined. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Quagliariello]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u12	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u13	Madam President, never before on this draft law for the conversion of a decree-law are the elements that have led us to present a preliminary constitutionality. In fact, the draft law under consideration presents particularly critical profiles of unconstitutionality, and not only in respect of Article 77 of the Constitution. From this point of view, it is clear to everyone that, once again (we are now obliged to attend continuously), we are faced with a clear violation of Article 77 of the Constitution, because - in our opinion - the decree-law in question lacks the conditions of extraordinary necessity and urgency required by Article 77 of the Constitution. The measure contains legal provisions that, in a clear and substantial way, lack the reasons for urgency of the intervention, as they are proposed to regulate a series of organizational and procedural aspects (on which, moreover, it had already intervened), aimed at achieving a better efficiency of the judicial offices of the Court of Cassation, through a use of resources and amending the legislation relating to the maintenance in service and the transfer of magistrates, training traineeships and the organization of administrative staff. It is clear, therefore, that this is not a matter of necessity and urgency. The rules contained in Title II on administrative justice are also substantially lacking in the intention to deal with extraordinary situations. I quote as an example the part that modifies the articles of the administrative telematic process in order to coordinate the technical rules with the primary legislation for the application of the PAT or the one that establishes, for example, the office for the administrative process, which would be a new support structure in the preliminary activity. It is clear to everyone that we are not faced with urgent and extraordinary needs, but with changes that could be introduced through an ordinary bill. Not to mention the principle of the substantial homogeneity of the rules as a prerequisite for the constitutional validity of the decree-law. I am thinking, for example, of Article 1-a. But the most incredible aspect of this decree-law (I thought that the season of norms ad personam was over!) is that here we are faced with a clearly ad personam decree-law. The content of Articles 5 and 10 is serious to the extent that it cannot ignore that, when expressing its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has indicated that the rules in question present very serious critical aspects with regard to compliance with the principles of equality and reasonableness, on the basis of which the law is required to regulate equally equal situations and to use the principle of reasonableness in the case of different situations, in order to avoid arbitrary and unjustified discrimination. Article 5 of the Decree-Law, in order to ensure continuity in apical duties, superior directors and directors at the Supreme Court of Cassation and the General Prosecutor of the Court of Cassation, provides for the detention in service until 31 December 2017 of those who have not completed the 72nd year of age at the date of 31 December 2016, not allowing them to retire. This derogation presents a clear violation of the principles of equality and reasonableness. Article 10 of the Decree-Law pursues the same aims as Article 5, governing the extension also for the only apical roles of the Council of State, the Court of Auditors and the General Bill of the State. This forecast presents similar profiles of violation of the principles of equality and reasonableness. It is clear that the two articles referred to introduce an objectively discriminatory situation. Among other things, we all know now that confidence will be placed on the draft law for the conversion of the decree-law under consideration, obviously in order to avoid having to examine the substance of these provisions which should be clearly removed from the text of the measure, all the more in view of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and because of the obvious violation of constitutional principles. We have tabled amendments to Articles 5 and 10; it would be absolutely necessary - and so must a Parliament that respects the Constitution - to intervene on these provisions, eliminating this blatant discrimination. In fact, there is a difference in treatment between judges of legality and judges of merit, resulting, among other things, in uncertainty about the time horizon of the employment relationship. The high judicial litigation (which, however, does not only concern the Court of Cassation or the system of ordinary and administrative justice) is not such as to justify this derogation only for some figures. Such a significant differentiation between the maintenance of the functionality of a single part of the judiciary (i.e. that of the Court of Cassation and administrative and accounting justice) and the functionality of all the remaining staff of the judiciary is not legitimate in the absolute sense, since the need for efficiency concerns all levels of justice. Moreover - it was well done by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to note it - Article 104 (1) of the Constitution states that: The judiciary is an autonomous and independent order of any other power and Article 107 (3) states, in an unmistakable way, that: The judges are distinguished from each other only because of the diversity of their duties. The rules contained in Articles 5 and 10 of the measure in question therefore do not comply with the principle of equality, clearly violating the constitutional provisions I have referred to. Not to mention the changes made by Article 7 (7) of the measure, which alters the balance between the judges of the TAR and those of the Council of State in the composition of the Executive Board of Administrative Justice, on which some members of the Council of State have also expressed a very strange welcome. Frankly, I also find this very strange and very questionable and I would like to quote it en passant. Therefore, for all these reasons, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, we ask not to proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 2550, for obvious and manifest inconstitutionality of the norms contained in it. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u14	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u17	MUSSINI (Mixed). Madam President, the Members who have referred to the questions referred for a preliminary ruling have dealt sufficiently and with great ability to sum up those elements of the measure in question, which constitute a clear unconstitutionality, as was also recognised in the opinion of the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs. On the other hand, I would like to comment on a number of aspects, since my fellow Members have been wondering what the reason for the measure is and have made comments on Parliament's operation. Speaking of what Senator Caliendo said, I think we should talk not about ignorance, but more precisely about indifference. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] We also see this at the moment: Parliament is distracted, while it is dealing with a very sensitive issue, such as the judicial order, which has been brought to the attention of the House several times and which not only affects the functioning of justice, but also deeply fits into the most important and alive layers of the country's functioning. The administration of justice has to do with the awareness of the certainty of the law and therefore also with the certainty of the respect of the rules and with the difference between the good and the bad and, on the other hand, also with the productive system. One of the elements that characterize the lack of will to invest in our country - as has been repeated several times - is precisely the lack of legal certainty and legality. Parliament is therefore addressing this issue in a clearly unconstitutional way, also because the changes to the existing legislation have been proposed by a decree-law which should have the characteristics of necessity and urgency. The lack of these characteristics has already been expressed by my colleagues before me: I would just point out that Parliament considers the decree-law to be so urgent for our examination, that yesterday it was anticipated the examination of the draft law of ratification of international treaties, dating from 2016, 2015, 2014, 2010, 2009 and even December 2005: this would therefore be the urgency. With regard to necessity, the decree-law is so necessary that some of its elements were already present in other bills, that they could follow their regular course. It is also not homogeneous, because there are measures concerning the service of magistrates, both for young people and the elderly, which are mixed, brilliantly and indifferently, with changes to the system, which of course are treated superficially. Moreover, the difference that is established between magistrates, in addition to being unconstitutional in itself, for the reasons that have been exposed, allows us to make another more political observation: the "breaker" has become a defender of the caste. In fact, the "breaker" creates a caste, because in fact it creates, within the judiciary, the well-identified caste of those who can remain in service and the other magistrates, all the judiciary of merit, which counts a little less. Then the great scraper becomes the defender of the caste; not only, the young scraper becomes the defender of the elderly. In fact, the issues inherent in the permanence of these magistrates could certainly be solved in a much more smart way through an efficient and effective recruitment system; it is certainly not by taking away the possibility of training young magistrates or reducing their period of internship that we will have a judiciary just as prepared and put into service quickly. The decree-law in question, however, also presents other critical elements. It has been pointed out by Senator Stefani that there are differences: in Article 1 we find that these provisions apply to appeals lodged after the date of entry into force of the law of conversion, but also to those deposited on the same date, already deposited previously, for which no hearing or meeting was established in the chamber of council. There is therefore also a difference between the citizens who have filed their appeals: there are those who will be counted on how their appeal will be dealt with and those who "purly" will have the misfortune that the date has not yet been decided and will therefore fall back into this category "purly" and completely unaware. We add that, if the unconstitutionality of the decree-law in question should be properly certified by those who should - and we hope it does - verify it, as the first Commission has done, starting from the fact that there is no principle of constitutionality, we wonder what will happen to all those appeals decided by a judiciary that is in service in an unconstitutional way. I would therefore like this Government and all the senators (who with great confidence, ignorance and indifference will approve the decree-law in question) to leave their name and surname to all citizens who will legitimately be right to present their complaints: maybe they are also of their voters, you never know. Senator Caliendo speaks of ignorance and indifference; I would say both and, above all, a bad approach both to administration and to the way laws are produced. Senator De Petris referred to a Parliament that respects the Constitution, but we know that this Parliament, which is unconstitutional, has no reason to respect the Constitution, so much so that it changes it. Finally, I would like to point out another paradoxical aspect, namely that this Parliament (and in particular the Commission for Justice) has seen a very arrogant and unconstitutional debate on this measure: on this occasion, as before, we see the advance of that constitutional reform going to the referendum. The Senate, in fact, is once again put in a position to not be able to make any intervention, not because there is no will or intelligence, but simply because someone has decided that the Constitution doesn't matter at all: it doesn't care about the perfect bicameralism and minorities. In this respect, I would like to point out how much we hope for that part of the constitutional reform which states that it will be up to the Regulations to regulate the rights of minorities: if the Regulations are made by a majority similar to that which now manages the relationship with minorities, I would say that it will be very difficult for there to be protection for minorities or better will protect their impossibility to say anything. I therefore urge the senators not to think so much about the vote they will be voting on these questions, because of course they will not vote on the matter, but to make themselves available to all those citizens who will legitimately consider today's product extremely harmful and detrimental to their rights. [[Applause from Senators Buccarella and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u20	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, the measure we are discussing is clearly very close to the heart of the Commission, to the point that it was launched by the Council of Ministers in the wake of the earthquake, when there was no time to set the date of the referendum, but instead there was time to extend, by decree-law, the retirement of the first President of the Court of Cassation and of very few other apical magistrates. I will not go back to the arguments that highlight the dubious compatibility between the measures before us and the Constitutional Charter: they have done so, better than I could do, the colleagues who preceded me. On the other hand, I would like to point out that this act, far from being a lightning strike, is incredibly coherent in a strategy of centralization of power that the Government is pursuing with pervicacy in every area. In other seasons, Madam President, for much less we would have had the country in the streets, roundabouts, alarms about the vulnerability of democracy, they would have feared authoritarian turns. We will not do any of this, but as liberals we cannot fail to record the work of the "most liberal government in the world" (I hope that the cheerful overseas brigade will allow me the Oscar prize paraphrase. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]] Colleagues, the most liberal government in the world has worked in order to put hand to a supposed "rationalization" of the press agencies and to be able to replace even the directors of the opposition newspapers (of the governance of the television public service I do not even speak, because it would be a child's play); it has worked in order to be able to choose the public executives (in this regard I launch an alarm on how the delegation that the government has in this matter is used); to choose the professors with the chairs Natta; to choose the managing directors of the banks (even if in this case in close collaboration with JP Morgan). Well, the government is making a qualitative leap today. With this decree-law, in fact, the executive power chooses the top of the main Italian judicial offices and the two members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary by law. Colleagues, I don't want to be hypocritical. The production activity of the laws affects every area of the order and it is therefore inevitable that it regulates also the sphere of attribution of other powers of the State. But, to begin with, this should be done in accordance with the fundamental principles of the order itself. Secondly, it is regrettable that this is done by decree-law. If, Madam President, the question of trust is put on this decree in a few hours' time, we will really be at a point which has rarely been reached. Above all, when a power of the State intervenes against another power of the State, it is essential to be careful that such intervention does not give rise to even the slightest suspicion of instrumentality. Many times politics has demanded this attention from the judicial authority: Prime Minister Renzi has also done so in this House. It is therefore to say the least disconcerting that today the same Executive from which we have heard so many times uncomfortable Montesquieu, produces such a serious act from the point of view of the relations between the powers of the State, so disruptive for the balances within the same judicial order, so under all suspicion. Mr President, I would like to continue with this line of non-hypocriticism. The provision that by decree extended the detention in service of the first president of the Cassation and of a few other elected - so little equipped with the requirements of necessity and urgency that it has been talked about for months, as attested by a statement issued already in June by my colleagues Giovanardi, Gasparri and Roccella - has been magically dismissed by the Council of Ministers after two episodes that I do not intend to pick up here. The decree was issued after the surprising decision of the first President of the Court of Cassation not to refer to the United Civil Chambers, as requested by the General Prosecutor, the appeals in the matter of stepchild adoption, referring the decision to a section of the Supreme Court, moreover not presided over by the magistrate who would have had seniority and titles to do so and who, precisely for this reason, resigned from the judiciary. It was also launched after the even more disconcerting decision to admit the constitutional referendum without ensuring that the question to be submitted to voters was in accordance with the legal requirements. These requirements are very clear, Madam President. Article 16 of Law No 352 of 1970 makes a clear distinction between constitutional laws and constitutional revision laws. In this second case, the rule requires that the question concerns not the subject matter of the reform, but the subject matter of the constitutional rules subject to amendment. None of our colleagues will miss the fundamental difference. No one will escape how improper and misleading it is to refer to the requests subscribed by the various promoters who, having to indicate bureaucratically the law to be submitted to referendum, have done so by means of the title appearing in the Official Journal. No one will escape that if the order said binding rules for the formulation of the referendari questions, while nothing says about the criteria for the titration of the laws, it is clear that the question should not be a mere transposition of the title and the Cassation is not called to be a simple paperweight. No one will escape that evoke the precedents of 2001 and 2006 is a clear ballon d'esai, if not a real boomerang, since in both cases the titles of the laws of reform were limited to perimeter the parts of the Constitution submitted to revision, without entering into the merit of the modifications and without pushing to postulate the arrival of Santa Claus, as instead does the title of the law Renzi-Boschi and as does the reference question that the Court of Cassation has so generously formulated. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether the conditions are being met for - and I am talking about this - to think badly, even though I personally have made a fairly clear idea of this matter. Certainly there are no constitutional requirements. And one more thing is certain. We already knew, beyond the ambitions typical of his character, that we were not governed by a character of the stature of Julius Caesar. From today we also know that Caesar's wife will not be at the head of the most important Italian judicial office. And this, in a context of the occupation of the increasingly unscrupulous and suffocating power, is something that should worry everyone, not just us of the opposition. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senators Bignami, Giovanardi and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u21	We greet the students and students of the San Giuseppe del Caburlotto Institute in Rome, who are attending our work. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u24	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I do not see why the order of speeches should be reversed, but it does nothing. Senator Quagliariello, however, must pay me the copyright, because I give him the ideas and he then develops them. On the matter of substance, Madam President, I strongly support the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. It is clear, as was apparent in the first Commission, that Articles 5 and 10 are completely unconstitutional, to the point that Secretary Chiavaroli would have taken the responsibility of transferring to Minister Boschi the need to delete or amend the two articles in question. This request was rejected with losses, because Boschi would have replied that the measure would be voted on by asking the question of trust because the text must remain so. Minister Boschi is very strict lately, perhaps because they have not taken her to the White House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups and Senator Airola]] Either way, he said no again.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u25	Senator Calderoli, please stick to the merit of the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u26	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Why do I say that this text must be stopped by means of the question referred for a preliminary ruling? Because everything we are doing at this time is aimed at and aimed solely at the holding and the favourable outcome of the referendum. The Senate doesn't do anything divisive, as I said. We approve a law of stability because it is mandatory, distributing prebende to everyone to collect consensus, already knowing that the letter of call of Europe will arrive, whose effect will be produced as a dead father, that is, after the vote of 4 December. But in order to get there it is necessary that the referendum can be held, that is, that there has been the passage in Cassation, from the President of the Republic and the examination by the applicants to the administrative justice. Randomly, Article 5 and Article 10 contain the late retirements of the top summits of the Supreme Court and the Council of State. And then I have some doubts about the coincidence of these passages frankly I do. Who, as my colleague mentioned earlier, stated the admissibility of the questions referred to the Court of Cassation? Just those who would benefit from the retirement delay! To whom today is the question asked whether or not the question is admissible? To administrative justice, that is to say to the Tar, and then, if necessary, to the Council of State. This question was, and is, completely inadmissible. Not so much because the voter's will goes away, but because, for tabulas, the Senate, as it was and as it will be, is a mandatory constitutional body. Therefore, the electoral law that will elect it is a constitutionally mandatory law. For tabulas, as the donkeys now know, with the transitional rule in the first paragraph of Article 39, we are not able to elect any Senate. Some geniuses, in fact, wrote that the regional councilor will vote for a list of councilors and mayors. But it is also said that the list that will take more votes, that is the winner, has the right to opt in the choice between councilman and mayor. Too bad we have forgotten that ten regions have only two senators and that in some (and we have already done simulations) both representatives will go to the majority. If the majority who won opt for the mayor, in that region you will have two advisors and you will not have the mayor. Therefore, seventy-five councilors and twenty mayors: that is, the opposite of what is written in Article 2. Then one forgets that even the number of senators is not specified, which is not mentioned in Article 39. There is no minimum and maximum number of candidates. It is not written if the same list is of councilors or mayors or if it should be two. But I'm even more perplexed than anyone proposing to rush into a regime law. I feel worse because, according to Article 2, an electoral law for the election of the Senate is not writable. It cannot be written that it must be elected by the proportional system and, therefore, by the allocation of seats according to the votes cast (i.e. proportionality) and the composition of the Council. Proportionality is one thing, the composition of the Council is another because it comes from a majority system because, except for one region, all the others have a majority electoral law. You can't write a law that says right and left and then above. We had the genius to write that, according to the census of the population, in ten regions there will be only two senators. Anyone want to explain to me how the allocation of those two seats to senators can be proportional? If there are two lists and each takes 50 percent, one senator is assigned to one and the other to the other. If you attribute two seats to the majority, there is a compression of the representativeness of the oppositions. If one seat is given to one and the other, the representativeness and proportionality of the majority shall be compressed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and CoR Groups.]] In addition, to want to rinse our mouth with something that always passes, we promote gender balance. So, can you explain to me those two senators how they're supposed to be made? Half mayors, half regional councillors, half man and half woman? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] In order to write an electoral law, the number must be increased to three. Let's make some nice decree that gives some rewards to someone else who may triple, as well as loaves and fish, even senators. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u27	I thought we were at the debate on the prejudices to this decree.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u30	D'ASCOLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I respond in order scatteredly to the constitutional issues raised. Firstly, it is said that the right of defence, but above all the right to contradictory treatment, would be offended by the provisions we are dealing with and, in particular, by Article 1-a of the Decree-Law. In the meantime, let me remind you that the contradictory has several faces in our constitutional system. It is a method for the formation of evidence and, if we mean by contradiction the method of the formation of evidence, we must agree that, before the Court of Cassation and in the jurisdictions of legality, proof certainly does not form. That is a judgment that implies the formation of the test in the merits of the judgment. Of course, I do not deny that the discussion in public hearing leads to the expansion of a different form of contradictory, the so-called contradictory consisting of the conflict between the parties who, in a certain sense, manifest their different views in a public hearing. This possibility of expansion of an adversarial, which may also be carried out because no rule prohibits the adversarial being such, is recovered in cases of exceptional or of particular relevance to the questions raised. In the presence of the extraordinary or exceptional relevance of the questions, the President may order the appeal to be brought to the public hearing. Therefore, we have the general statement that it does not conflict with either Article 24 or Article 111 of our Constitution, according to which the contradictory may also be of a paper nature. The conflict between the different procedural positions can also be resolved through writings that are deposited by the parties in a regulatory context that still provides for the possibility, in the presence of situations that deserve it, to bring matters to public hearing. Turning to the question of subsequent constitutionality, which would concern the violation of Article 3 of our Constitution and, therefore, Articles 5 and 10 of the Decree-Law, seen on the double side of the principle of equality and reasonableness, individual an element that works in defence of both the question of the right of defence and of this second question, that is the alleged violation of Article 3. In fact, we must not forget how, every time we discuss alleged violations of the principle of equality and the principle of reasonableness, matters must be put into practice, that is, they must be examined in their context. Here we have a premise - on which I will return later, with reference to the further question raised, namely the alleged violation of the requirements of necessity and urgency, referred to in Article 77 of the Constitution - to say that the basis of the decree-law is not only urgency and necessity (which legitimize its adoption, precisely on the side of Article 77), but also the extraordinary nature of the issues dealt with through the adoption of this decree-law. It is through this prism of the extraordinary nature of the questions, their importance, the exceptional nature and the crisis of a Court of Cassation that there are 106,000 appeals pending for this current year, which must be assessed. The statistical data cannot of course be forgotten, otherwise, in an attempt to persuade others, we end up highlighting only a few issues. The discourse is amputated of its main questions, presented according to the side that most pleases those who support a certain thesis, and in that separate context they acquire a force of persuasion that they do not actually have. It is the art of convincing and in a certain sense the sophism that presents itself to determine a certain credibility, only apparent, of the issue. The starting point, also in terms of equality and reasonableness, must be the need to deal with an emergency that is characterized by an extraordinarily high number of appeals: if we have 106,000 pending appeals, which are exactly twice the number of appeals pending only ten years ago, we must inevitably understand that we must take measures that, while respecting constitutional principles, meet these demands of extraordinary exceptionality. This is a starting point in the assessment of constitutional requirements, ex-Article 3, in conjunction with the assumption of Article 3: there is no judgment of the Constitutional Court, given in the matter of Article 3, which does not make a preliminary observation: the principle of equality, and in a certain sense also the principle - we might say ancillary - of reasonableness (which is obviously a much more dilated principle), presupposes the ascertainment of the sameness of the identity of the legal situations regulated. It can be said that there is unequal treatment in the presence of absolutely identical situations. Therefore, it is unconstitutional, for violation of Article 3, a law that treats odd situations in the same way, or that treats in an odd way equal situations. However, if we take this principle into account, we realize that the extraordinary situation in which the Court of Cassation finds itself is in itself a source of justification for provisions directly affecting the Court of Cassation. They see, Senators and Senators, how the question in a certain sense ends up giving reasonableness, contrary to what is supposed to be done, to this legislative intervention, insofar as, in the premise of the extraordinary situation in which the Court of Cassation is pouring out, namely the need to arrange in a different way situations that are different, there is provision for introductory rules of separate treatment, given the emergency, for appeals to Cassation, and it is intended to accompany the entry into force of exceptional provisions, through the permanence of the Supreme Offices of the Court of Cassation, which, on the contrary, would have been decapitated at the same time. Therefore, there is a basic reasonableness in an intervention which, precisely, aims to solve a specific problem through provisions especially dictated to this particular situation and which include, within this situation, an extension of the retirement of the top offices of the Court of Cassation, and then inevitably of the other superior magistrates. If this had not been done, there would have been a difference of treatment within the superior magistrates, in the sense that a higher judiciary would have been regulated differently than another; but no one can reasonably say that a management office of an appeal court is an identical situation to that of a management office of the Court of Cassation, the Council of State, the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors of the State. As far as Articles 104 and 107 of the Constitution are concerned, the relevant objections in a certain sense come together in the criticism referred to in Article 3; then, of course, the magistrates can only be distinguished by functions, but here the principle is absolutely not forbidden for the obvious reason that a derogation in the matter of retirement is established by virtue, precisely, of the situations to which I was referring at first. I close my speech with a reference to Article 77, where it is said that the requirements of necessity and urgency would be lacking, in order to recall how the statistical data, namely the particular situation in which the Court of Cassation finds itself, are clear evidence of a situation of absolute urgency. For all these reasons, I take the view that the proposed constitutionality issues are unfounded and do not deserve to be accepted, together with the last one, on Article 97 and on good practice, because this draft law seeks to ensure that the Court of Cassation operates properly. With this last and final statement, I would like to return to the issue of the inconsistency of constitutional issues in our examination. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u33	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are asking for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u34	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on draft law No 2550 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Cappelletti and other senators (QP1), Senator Cardiello and other senators (QP2), Senator Stefani and other senators (QP3) and Senator De Petris and other senators (QP4). It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u35	Madam President, I am speaking first because it was planned, but I am also happy to do so because I will have the opportunity to clarify the meaning of the vote that I have just voted against the questions referred to you and to distinguish the position that I represent this morning - which, moreover, is not isolated - also from the arguments put forward by Mr D'Ascola last. In the meantime, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his transparent report: the rapporteur, in reporting on the measure, has not hidden any of the problems on the table and, indeed, has made this House aware of them. And it could not be otherwise, since the rapporteur is also a member of the 1st Commission, although he did not vote for the opinion, precisely as rapporteur in the 2nd Commission on this measure. I share many aspects of this measure, which is in fact not called into question by anyone, starting with the urgency of the conversion of the decree-law, which has also been underlined outside this House by bodies such as the Supreme Council of the judiciary. This measure certainly contains appropriate measures. I am referring not only to those provided for in the decree-law issued by the Government, but also to the measures introduced by the Chamber of Deputies. I could refer, for example, to Article 1-a, which contains a subject on which a debate has been going on for some time. So these are not long extemporaneous rules, but rules that have in-depth discussions behind them, which also start with previous legislation. None of us, therefore, wants to stop the provision in itself and, indeed, I think I want to urge myself the conversion of the decree-law. This reflection has led us in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to issue a non-obstacle opinion, which obviously concerns the measure in its complexity; the bill in our examination allows a unique reading (and in this sense homogeneity is guaranteed), but it also contains contradictions and norms which, strictly look at the classic criteria of homogeneity, could certainly extend the balance in another way. We believe, however, that homogeneity is safeguarded by the objective before us: to ensure the efficiency of judicial offices, not only of ordinary justice, but also of administrative justice. Following the canons followed for other measures (classically this discourse is done for extensions), when there is a unifying function we think that the criterion of homogeneity is safeguarded. Therefore, the 1st Commission, on my own proposal (which I am rapporteur here), has issued an opinion which is not an obstacle, but has made observations on which the House has insisted very much, also in order to justify the question of constitutionality which we have not voted on and which I insist on in my speech. In fact, to say that the measure, understood as a whole, must continue its process and therefore reject the question of constitutionality does not mean either giving up the amendments, nor giving up, even when it is known that confidence is placed, the duty of witness that the senators of the Republic and the parliamentarians all have with respect to the measures of particular importance; and this is a measure that is of particular importance and, on some points, certainly not positive. We are also aware that the first Commission approved by the House of Deputies has made completely different arguments. He justified the criticisms that we have denounced precisely with the criterion that, last, quoted Mr D'Ascola, as his equal. Senator D'Ascola, when he defends a thesis, can do it well. However, recalling the criterion of equality, as did the opinion of the 1st Commission and my colleague Mr D'Ascola, is misleading in this case. The motivation expressed by the 1st Commission of the Chamber of Deputies has made us very cautious, because clearly each House has a form of respect for the first. But now, if I wanted to be slightly controversial (and, since we are discussing Italicum in all places, I want to be openly), I should say that what happened to the House doesn't make me hope for the future because, if when the majorities are armored you don't even see the things for which you don't have to inculate a pair of glasses to see them, this doesn't lay well for the future. I'm going back to motivation. We have a measure which in itself has its own function and which intervenes with two articles (Article 5 and Article 10, which are not fundamental in the measure itself, whatever the case may be), which introduce completely inappropriate, but also free, rules which are absolutely discriminatory. Today we say it in the Senate Assembly and I also say it on behalf of a group of senators who think like me in the PD (but there are many more who think so, many more than those who declare it). Actually, we're not the first to say it. This was said by the National Association of Judges and said by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, with a very analytical and highly motivated measure (of course related to administrative justice and therefore to the President and the Prosecutor General of the Court of Cassation) which led Parliament to a crossroads: to cash in the two articles or to amend them. There would have been nothing scandalous to amend these articles in a non-discriminatory way, i.e. to regulate the apical figures as a whole in the same way. What I do not share with Mr D'Ascola's speech (and the speech intuitively comes to mind immediately) is that in this case it is not just an office. When it is fixed on the speech of the organization, in fact, it is done to escape a basic fact: the office is covered by a person, that is by a magistrate, who has a qualification and who has a function. The discriminatory character, as Senator D'Ascola says well, comes precisely from the interweaving between Article 3 and Article 107, because if the magistrates distinguish themselves only by function (as stated in article 107, third paragraph, of the Constitution), then you do not see how, hiding behind an organizational apparatus and therefore behind an office, you can allow some magistrates an extension, while they leave out and discriminate all the other magistrates, with personal consequences that will probably lead to judicial events that would have been good and opportune to avoid. Mrs De Petris, but also someone else, referred to another article, to which I too would like to refer in this brief debate, namely Article 7. In this case I should say that the government has little to do with it, because it is a parliamentary amendment; but here too we must not hide. At times, when we discuss with each other, we censor the behaviour of some ministries, who, when it comes to measures that concern several disciplines, make the individual parliamentarians have the veil to introduce by parliamentary means what they cannot introduce by government. But, I mean, who could have thought of that? How could Mr Ermini of the House (responsible for the justice of the PD) think of inventing that the Bureau, under certain conditions, needs two supplementary elements that can be identified in such an analytical way? I say this because, among other things, this article could not escape; in fact, it did not escape me, Mr De Petris and the Commission (but it did not say so, because it was outside the decree-law). He could not escape, because he raised the protests of the magistrates of the TAR, who saw themselves put in a corner and who will count much less, since the mechanism was altered within the presidency council. But this has not escaped even the Councillors of State, who instead made letters of praise. What do I mean, since my time is almost over? We need an independent and independent judiciary (and at the moment we protect it or should protect it from discrimination), but we also need an independent legislative power, because it is not possible for individual magistrates to dictate the political agenda of our country, neither when they introduce rules that affect them personally, nor when they introduce rules with subtle changes, that we do not understand the reasoning by which they are introduced and that favour some to the detriment of others or some categories to the detriment of others. Therefore, at the end of this speech there are amendments which, if they were put to the vote, we would vote, but we already know that trust will be placed. I take this opportunity to say that this measure can only pass with confidence, because the Government knows that it would risk heavily on Articles 5, 7 and 10. It proves that the minister of justice Orlando, who has been here on important occasions claiming the product of his work, is not there today, we do not know where he is; but it hurts not to be there, because on this measure - alas - he is forced to put his face together with Renzi: because these discriminations will bear his signature and not ours. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u36	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u37	Madam President, let us simplify: we are talking about the decree-law Canzio. If you look at this morning's newspapers, you will see that they speak, customizing it, of a decree-law that was thought - alas - to reward some magistrates (not just the photo of these magistrates). Then an escamotage was used to say that it is not only the Cassation, but also the Council of State and the Court of Auditors. I understand that there is no magistrate of the Court of Auditors and the Council of State who can benefit from this extension ad personam. Then, compared to what? Three months ago we said: will it not be true that certain attitudes of the first President of Cassazione, who retires on 1 January, because he turns his years, will be rewarded with a decree-law with which it will be extended until 31 December? It is impossible to do that; we had also thought of a question. But it's not gonna be true? It's not like we missed certain things. For example, in the great debate on stepchild adoption, adoptions; Parliament having spoken for the deletion, and in the face of a series of conflicting judgments of first instance and appeals, and a great expectation, it was mandatory for appeals to go to the United Chambers of Cassation. No, you don't. President Canzio wrote to us parliamentarians that, even if the law provides that the united sections are occupied, he, following the practice, entrusted them to the first section, which, as Senator Quagliariello said before, had already been pre-constituted by sending home the president who should have presided over it, who in turn resigned from the judiciary in protest. A few days ago we went before the Supreme Court, because an appeal (it was two men who wanted to adopt a child) had already been discussed - it is not known why - from the sixth section, and only following our protest the sixth section stripped of this task by referring it to the first section. And we reiterate the request, as the law provides, to give the united sections the function they have in our order: to establish between all the various judgments which are in conformity with the law and which are not. Yesterday we saw that the first criminal section - the newspapers today talk about it - established, again because of the Parliament-magistracy agreement and guidelines, that a cohabitation contract is sufficient to ensure that those who committed crimes for which before the law on civil unions was passed would be expelled, can no longer be expelled. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] 11:14 a.m. (Follows YOUNG PEOPLE). This is because the Supreme Court has said - with great emotion regarding the civil unions approved by Parliament - that since the contracts of cohabitation man-woman equal to the civil unions between man-man or woman-woman, and being these comparable to marriage, from now on it is enough a contract of cohabitation and the clandestine who has committed crimes in our country can no longer be expelled. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] Understood? It's amazing, lunar and crazy. It is clear, in fact, that these contracts will be carried out in fraud to the law if it is enough to make a contract of coexistence with a person to be sheltered from the possibility of being expelled from Italy. Let's get to the point. Would these be the attitudes for which the first president is awarded with an extension of one year, he and some members of the Supreme Court? Senator Quagliariello also pointed out the referendary question, which had a certain kind of interpretation. But do you think that in the country, in the Supreme Council of the judiciary and at the level of the National Judicial Association (which has harshly criticized these measures), no one has noticed what is happening? That no one has noticed that even cards are cheated not only with the occupation of television and newspapers, perhaps with an agreement between the Ministry of Health and some powerful health businessmen to take out in the evening, at 20, the director of a newspaper to make it pass, from morning to evening, from the "no" to the "yes" compared to the referendum? Not only do these positions of journalism or fill all state bodies with people coming from the Grand Duchy of Tuscany or from its vicinity, but they even adopt decree-laws to "reward" people who have had a certain behavior that, from our point of view - we have written - is of violation of the law and prerogatives that, under the jurisdiction of our country, are torn. Other than reading ad personam of the period of Berlusconi governments! I would like someone on the other side of the emicycle to be deeply ashamed of this obnoxious ad personam. We are going to pollute the high levels of the system, to achieve a certain result and to support certain policies whose results are disastrous. Let me say something. How many times, with reference to the so-called Fini-Giovanardi law, did the left say that a series of foreign norms had been inserted into the bill of conversion of the decree-law? I had an attenuating, since before 2006, the year when the so-called Fini-Giovanardi law was adopted, the Constitutional Court had never ruled that rules could not be introduced into a draft law of conversion not homogeneous to those contained in the decree-law. Moreover, on that occasion the rules had already been discussed for three years by the Senate of the Republic and had been the subject of dozens of hearings in the Health Commission. Nevertheless, the Constitutional Court said: no, dear Giovanardi, your action was hasty. It is true that the rules have been examined in the Commission for years, but you could not include them in a bill of conversion. What is Article 1-a of the decree-law under consideration? These are rules introduced by Parliament, completely innovative with respect to the original text of the decree-law. I've had a catchy one. At that time I was entitled to amend the bill of conversion of the decree-law because never, throughout the history of the Italian Republic and Parliament, had problems been raised. Instead, now, after the Constitutional Court's rulings, the Government knows very well that it is totally unconstitutional to include in the measure under consideration an article that enters into the substance and redesigns the functions of the Court of Cassation. Yet this is done with ease, constitutional rules are torn apart in a completely casual manner and the decisions of the Constitutional Court are ignored. Unless an institutional reality is envisaged in which the Constitutional Court and the Court of Cassation, drawn in a certain way, make institutional the fact of distinguishing according to who makes the law and has certain behaviors: if it is a center-right government, then it is unlawful and illegal and must be dismissed, while if it is a center-left government, then it is legitimate, rightful, beautiful and useful. In this situation someone talks about the danger of a regime. Well, we are very close to the danger of a regime. I have said things that no one has refuted in the Commission. It's another surreal thing. Senators Caliendo and Nitto Palma and other colleagues who have repeatedly raised these types of objections in the Commission know this, asking who are the beneficiaries. The question as to why we want to adopt an ad personam rule against the magistrates who rewards only a few summits of the Court of Cassation came this morning the answer from the President of the Commission Justice, who filled empty words with the fundamental concepts. The rapporteur, Mrs Lo Moro, wrote in black and white that two articles are clearly unconstitutional, but she concluded that, because they are clearly unconstitutional, they are equally good. She then stood up in this House and spoke to say that, although she did not share its constitutionality, she voted against the questions of constitutionality because the distortions would then be corrected by amendments which, in your opinion, would have been voted in favour of by the majority of the House. As confidence is established, however, the amendments will not be voted on. But do you realize what you're saying? Do you realize the type of brutal emptying of Parliament's prerogatives before us? All this is covered not by a veil, but by a thick blanket of hypocrisy compared to these forcings. Anyone who listens to me will wonder why I'm passionate and who I'm talking about, since there is an overwhelming majority here that "drinks" and "sends down" everything. Moreover, the People's Area Group, which would be the one defending principles and values, voted the law on civil unions and this issue of expulsion, that is, a law that allows incredible forces for the safety of citizens, not with respect to honest immigrants but with reference to those who have committed crimes and should be expelled from Italy. Why, then, waste time? For this to remain in the act: because time is a gentleman, it is good to say these things in Parliament, it is good to call them by name and surname and establish responsibilities. Since time is gallant man, there will be the moment when these things will be re-evaluated and revised, I hope also at institutional level, and those who carry out these incredible forcings will pay the consequences, in front of history, in front of the country and I hope also at electoral level. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u38	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u39	Mr President, on a preliminary note, I would like to point out that the text before us was adopted at the meeting of the Commission (meeting at 8 p.m. at 8 p.m.). Having received the Commission's call at 8 p.m. for a Commission meeting scheduled for 8 p.m. on the same day, I would ask the Secretary-General how he was able to attend that sitting, which lasted for no more than 20 minutes, having been informed of it at 8 p.m. In addition, it is a summons received on the wrong date: for goodness sake, it was a material error, which was corrected at 20.07. Mr President, we are creating a precedent, with the convening of a Commission, called upon to take a decision in the referee, which is being sent out at the exact moment when it begins to act. Following the same logical principle, I wonder how all the representatives of the majority could be present and what respect there may be for the right of the opposition to participate in parliamentary work in the Commission, without a summons allowing at least the physical time, the 15 minutes necessary to reach the seat of the Commission, from a neighbouring office. On this I would like to have the opinion and a position on the part of the President of the Senate, in view of the fact that this could constitute a serious precedent, for the work and for the same principle of democratic functioning of the institution. Turning to the substance of the measure under consideration, I cannot but reflect on the title of the draft law under consideration, which is a lying title. For Christ's sake, we are used to the lying titles: I think, first of all, of the bill that will be submitted to the next constitutional referendum. The title of the draft law in question states: Emergency measures for the definition of litigation at the Court of Cassation, for the efficiency of judicial offices, and for administrative justice. I believe that a title more corresponding to the main content of the measure could have been: Emergency measures for the maintenance in service of six or seven apical figures of the Court of Cassation and then the Italians would have understood better what we are dealing with. Or perhaps a title of this kind would have been more exhaustive: The third derogation from the wicked decree-law of the Government of 2014, which anticipated the retirement date of the magistrates by five years, without providing for the corresponding contests for their replacement, taking into account the foreseeable consequences in terms of the proper functioning of justice. This would perhaps have been the most appropriate, correct and legitimate title for the bill for our examination. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We can remove the adjective "scelerato," but this is definitely the third derogation from the decree-law of the Government of 2014. Therefore, the Government intervenes to remedy a mistake that it has made itself. In short, the decree-law under consideration and its bill of conversion are intended to remedy a problem created by the Government, because at a time when the whole country is asked to retire a little later, to move the bar over there, of course keeping unchanged the contributions paid in a lifetime, the Government has asked the magistrates to retire five years earlier (let's say this to the country, so that it is clear), creating already in 2014 obvious and huge holes of staff, to which we now try to put the umpteenth patch, the third. I wonder what a schizophrenic way to legislate is if we have to go after other laws with laws, launched in this same legislature by this same government, in order to remedy them. In 2014, a law was passed that created huge problems of lack of staff in justice and subsequently enacted provisions not to apply that same law. Would it not have been easier, Mr President, not to present the aforementioned decree-law in 2014 or to formulate it better (I refer, of course, to the provision relating to the early retirement of magistrates), rather than to run to fix errors made by the Government with initiatives of the Government itself? I am also saying this because the request to consider transitional periods had been made by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, by the magistrates themselves, by the political forces, but of course all these instances have been ignored. We have therefore reached the third extension. One question remains: why has this extension, on equal terms, not been envisaged for all magistrates appointed to offices with the same volumes of work (and, of course, for those with larger volumes of work), rather than only for the six or seven apical figures of the Court of Cassation? Why was this precedent introduced, this discrimination between judges of legitimacy and merit? Mr President, an incredible difference of treatment is being introduced which will inevitably trigger countless appeals by the judges themselves. The declaration of unconstitutionality of the measure under consideration, at least because it is contrary to Articles 3 and 107 of the Constitution, is certain: it is only a matter of time. Fortunately, thanks to the Constitution, which is still in force in our country despite repeated attempts to overturn it, citizens have equal dignity and are equal before the law and the magistrates distinguish between themselves only because of the diversity of functions. In short, in 2014 was launched by the Premier the so-called parabola of the generational replacement in the judiciary, but then there was no provision to make competitions, to cover the places that were left vacant because of the early retirements, did not take care with the recruitments and the assignments and then we wonder why in Italy the justice does not work. It does not work simply because we do not want to make it work and the unconstitutional measure under discussion, which - I repeat - will only apply to six or seven magistrates, is yet another proof. The National Association of Judges has also stated that the text presents profiles of unconstitutionality and is contrary to Community law. We have read the amendments that have been proposed and members of the majority, who are already magistrates, have rejected the decree-law as clearly unconstitutional. For all these reasons I also say no to the present bill of conversion of a clearly unconstitutional decree-law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u40	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u41	Mr President, more than the Government, which seems to me incapable of understanding and wanting on this subject, I address, through this House, the President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, and also the President of the Senate, who is a person who knows the law and practices it even more than we Members of Parliament, who also, by making laws, have learned something. This measure, in fact, on which the Government is about to put its trust, is of such unconstitutionality that there would be no need for verification that on a decree-law the Presidency of the Republic must nevertheless do when signing it and authorizing the start of the parliamentary process. Then, the law of conversion must be promulgated; therefore, a decree-law passes twice to the scrutiny of the supreme judiciary of the Republic: both when it is authorized and, if it is converted, when the law is promulgated. I understand that President Grasso has a third-party position, but I would like to know what he thinks of this rule as well. I was also tempted to name names, but I don't want to name them; I think there are 13 people - all of them in cassation - who benefit from this rule. Also on the technicality of the problem of extensions, or of the gaps created for other measures, I add nothing to what other experts much more than myself in this matter - Giacomo Caliendo and Nitto Palma - have said in this House and in the Commission. I would add nothing else, except in a very brief way, even on the procedures. You see, President Calderoli, you will remember that on August 3, we had to complete the reform of the criminal trial. President Grasso took advantage of a power he had and - I think legitimately - said that it was an urgent law and that it had to be done. So he makes use of a faculty that the Rules of Procedure allow him. It seemed like we were supposed to be here in August examining the law, and we would stay; it happened. Although Parliament has a deteriorating image, we have examined decree-laws at times in August in an emergency - better if we hadn't done them, to rethink them - with the Monti Government. But what happened to that law? We have seen the self-obstructionism of the majority, because the devil makes the pots but not the lids: they enlist the transfuge senators to hold the government but then the transfugue, if ever on the criminal trial, does not agree - in a glimmer of lucidity - on the prescription that reaches thirty-three years and then the government does not have the numbers and therefore the law disappears. President Grasso was right from his point of view: it was urgent on August 3, and now that we are on October 19, where is that law? She disappeared because the government doesn't have the numbers. The majority did not have the numbers and the criminal trial, which was urgent, disappeared. Colleagues, we have read that on October 24 there will be a meeting between Minister Orlando, President Renzi and Davigo, president of the National Association of Judges, and we will decide whether or not to do the law. I have great respect for Davigo, for the ANM, for Orlando, formally also for Renzi - he is still the President of the Council - but can three people decide what to do? The decree-law at our examination today, on the other hand, is clearly unconstitutional, Best Undersecretary, and you know it: the retirement age is extended for about ten people, for that Cassazione that sometimes operates even in an arbitrary way. Giovanardi said so before, if I'm not mistaken. We, Mr Calderoli, have been waiting for months for an answer to a question on very sensitive matters, such as adoptions by gay couples. The Supreme Court should decide by law in united sections and does not decide; perhaps it also has little courage, because the other day we went democratically before the Supreme Court to display a banner: a decision of the sixth section was expected, then instead it was transferred to the first. It has not yet been decided, but on matters such as adoptions, which are very delicate, the united sections should express their views. They are concerned about having the ad personam pension extended and do not care about applying the law correctly on the subject of adoptions! They did what they did the other day, brainily applying the law on civil unions in cassation. We had said this: the combined arrangement of the law on civil unions and citizenship, what do you want to do, will determine an easy citizenship for everyone and the Cassation arbitrarily issues that sentence? We must therefore give this pension ad personam. I will not name the attorney of the General Court, the section presidents, the attorney general at the Supreme Court: just go and see them on the Internet. We are talking about norms ad personam, but we have fought a battle of democracy against the protection of a judicial power that makes laws, when the division between executive, legislative and judicial power is a constitutional principle and universal democracy that is distorted here. Davigo goes to give orders to Renzi on October 24 on the law of August 3, which was urgent and which has now disappeared. This is unconstitutionality; dear Mattarella, a long-standing parliamentary colleague - whom I respect - I want to see how she will sign this shameful ad personas law. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] It's a shame! It is an act of legislative banditry that will not have our assent; putting trust in it is double banditism and colleagues who will vote for trust know it too. I heard some echoes and I read the opinions of the Justice Commission: it sucks! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Liuzzi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u42	Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u43	Mr President, I shall tell you what I think of this measure in the explanation of vote. However, I did not want to miss this opportunity to prevent Parliament from taking a drift on which, frankly, we cannot continue to prevail. President Calderoli, I would like to ask you a moment of attention, because since I know that the President of the Senate is quite deaf to the invitations that are made by the senators, perhaps, through his good offices, something may happen. I can think of something very simple. Thinking about this measure, I remember a phrase of a valiant Italian polemicist, Ennio Flaiano, who wondered: why do you keep moving the threshold of ridicule further and further? This is the thought that reminds me of this measure and I ask you to be careful with me on certain questions of method, because very often the method becomes substance in this Parliament. We cannot be called to justice by the Commission on Monday evening for a night sitting, fearing a matter of urgency, and find ourselves the next day, namely yesterday, with a majority which requires us to reverse the agenda and discuss something else. Something really unacceptable is going on. The opposition spaces are completely trampled on. I therefore ask you, acting as President at the moment - and I think others should be interested in it too - what is happening in this Parliament, for example, in respect of the urgent decision. If the warnings of the recent past continue to have the right to citizenship in these parliamentary classrooms, could there be Presidents of the Republic travelling in alternate ways? Or do I have to think that everything is in the logic that animated, for example, the intervention that Senator Lo Moro did before, where there is everything and the opposite of everything, where practically ten parts are played on the stage? We are completely inconsistent with the work of this House, with the complete inconsistency of Parliament's work on measures which I shall then refer to in an explanation of vote and which I will point out using, as usual, my reasoning that it is very simple and direct. I therefore took advantage of these minutes which I had in general debate to ask the Presidency whether it was finally time to have the normal parliamentary criteria and rules implemented within our branch of Parliament. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u44	She is registered to speak with Senator Mussini.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u45	Mr President, I will first of all focus on the question of the method. I am a member of the Justice Commission and I went on a mission on Monday because, on the basis of the informal agreements that had been made, the amendments would be voted on in the Commission on Tuesday. While I was on a mission, I was being bombarded on my cell phone with messages from the Justice Commission, which, in a disorganized and hectic way, called us, with an even wrong call, to a sudden evening session for the vote on the amendments, which I had also tabled and which, legitimately, I also wanted to be able to vote, as well as to be able to express myself on their content. It is clear that the organisation of this meeting of the Commission at night took place with the full responsibility and awareness of a majority that has equipped itself, that has organized itself for replacements and that has scientifically cut the possibility, for the opposition, not only to see recognized the goodness of some amendments as illustrated in this House, but also to be physically there and to vote. This is the most evident, tangible and concrete sign of a Government that has actually occupied the role of parliamentarians, who have been elected anyway and who, however, have the right and duty to account to the people who elected them. This is in the most complete indifference of my fellow senators, whom I will be very curious to see one day reduced to a minority position in the face of a completely deaf majority. Remember, in fact, who does it, wait for it. All this could also give rise to a settlement of accounts between elected and senators, if it were not that all this is very serious for a concept that is filled with the mouth, that of democracy, which obviously does not interest anyone and which, however, does not interest those who claim to lead this country. We are not talking about constitutional and unconstitutional issues, which have already been dealt with extensively and which restore the framework of operations carried out in the most complete contempt of the Constitutional Charter. Deprecation of parliamentary mechanisms, contempt for representation, contempt for the Constitutional Charter: someone here should really be ashamed. As far as the substance of this provision is concerned, once again we are faced with a decree-law on justice. Never enough has it been observed that justice would need measures that go first and foremost to touch the real points of the efficiency and operation of the machine; problems that are always solved by spot. Here there is also the addition of an odd treatment and the creation, in fact, of a small caste. So, let's also add the decree ad personam. But I would also like to reflect on something else, namely the concept of legality. In the world outside this House, lovingly kicked in the butt, we are produced in initiatives for legality, even in schools and everywhere, with conferences, meetings and protocols. Well, I would like to point out that, in any case, the legality and principle of compliance with the rules are not declarations and petitions of principle, but behaviors against which the model is fundamental, because it becomes an educational model. We are then faced with a government that expresses a bad model as to compliance with the rules, because of the rules it highly cares about. It is certainly not exemplary. We are faced with a series of measures that overlap and that are one the denial of the other. We have legal decrees in the House but, in the name of an electoral campaign that is being put on top of everything, we are unable to deal with a measure that is ready; I am referring to the reform of the criminal process, about which there would be a lot to say, but which is here: it was voted in the Commission, it is available to the House, but we cannot deal with it. It also lays down the measure concerning the reform of the civil process. Despite being uneven measures, however, it is measures which have followed a parliamentary process and which would have the ambition to tackle both the criminal justice front and the civil justice front in a more comprehensive way. These measures, which, however, lie, are in stark contrast - and I am moving forward with the work - with other measures. We have already had some anticipations and we know what issues the next law of stability will contain. I'm thinking, for example, about breaking tax records. But Minister Padoan tells us that we are paying our dues. But when? Nine and ten years ago. The due of so long ago was not paid for nine or ten years and was held by those who did not pay and, in the meantime, in this period those who paid the taxes incurred the expenses of the country. It was also the subject of that spending review, which hit heavily entire slices of the country. We should think that what is due, but not paid in due time, has resulted in the effort of teachers, for example, who have found themselves having thirty students in the classroom. It is necessary to cut the school's expenses because the due is not paid and now is healed. We have already had the opportunity in this House to talk about how negative the voluntary disclosure is for the concept of respect for legality. In its time it has been made more attractive with the establishment and immediate decriminalization of self-recycling. Here, however, since you can no longer establish to decriminalize self-recycling, you do voluntary disclosure even on cash, which means that you do a brilliant operation to set up a washing machine of money of any origin. In the end, in the face of all this, I and probably other colleagues (especially the citizens whom we are legitimately called to represent, whether the President-in-Office wants it or not), are shocked. Especially the honest citizen, the one on which we should aim for the famous culture of legality, can only realize that he is a "perfect asshole." [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli. Comments from the PD Group]] That's what those who respect the rules in this country are. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Those who respect the rules are constantly placed in a position to think that they are wrong, because the mechanism of justice will never give them the certainty of the rules and the law. All this happens in the face of subjects who, however, think they are entitled and have the merits to be able to lead this country out of an economic crisis that, first of all, has put in crisis the very value of democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u46	Senator Anitori is registered to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u47	Mr President, what we are discussing here is a bill to convert a decree-law which has been discussed extensively in the Commission. The rapporteur himself took note of the sessions which were largely devoted to the study of the various articles contained in it and many issues, including controversial ones, were well represented there. In the same way, even in this House, already this morning, we have entered the heart of the decree-law. I would remind everyone that this decree-law does not come as a lightning strike, but is part of a more global and systematic strategy than ever before, in any legislature (i.e. the most recent of the so-called second Republic) had been put in place. At last we had the courage to say: the reform of justice is no longer a reason for ideological confrontation, but it finally becomes a reason for drafting texts and then for passing laws. The debate is there, there are conflicts, differences and convergences, but there is not the same climate as a few years ago. It's the government's credit, but I think it's Parliament's credit too. In this decree-law there are all those points, qualified by necessity and urgency, which have been kept up in these months of legislation. I would remind all my colleagues that the reform of civil justice is in the process of being approved (because one branch of Parliament, the Senate, has already approved it) and that another important point of the reform of justice, which is the reform of the criminal process, is also being approved. A dialogue between the Government and the National Association of Judges is under way. Other qualifying points have already been addressed in the past months and many of them have been drafted and approved first in the Justice Commission and then by the Senate Assembly. That is why I do not think it is appropriate to tear our clothes or point the finger, as was done, for example, by my colleague Gasparri; we are not in his time, those times that did very badly to the country system, but we are in another phase. That is why we reject to the sender all the evils that, once again, have been put forward here this morning by those who were experts in ad personam laws and think that it is still possible to read with those glasses measures that Parliament, over time, decides to approve. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a decree-law whose clear intention is to intervene on a situation of disposal of the backlog which particularly concerns the Court of Cassation. There are several articles - those ranging from 1 to 6 - that intervene on the subject: it should not be underestimated that a choice is made, for example in using exceptionally the magistrates employed in the office of the maximumium and the role to compose the judging colleges, which I think is intelligent. It is a choice which is of course made with great caution and for which there are limits that have been extended to the House of Deputies. Therefore, we are faced with the need for the Court of Cassation to finally attack the backward, especially the civil one, and to give an adequate response. The President of the Commission reminded us that since the early 1990s, we have been faced with a deadly setback. In 2001 we were at 69,000 pending trials; 2002 marked a leap forward and we reached 82,000; in 2003 we reached 91,000, reaching the threshold of 100,000 arrears in 2006. Afterwards we have always gone around this figure and we are today, as of June 30, 2016, around 106,000 arrears. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this is a certain, impregnable and objective fact that we have to deal with. It gives a first, partial, limited but interesting answer. This is also a discussion which has been taking place for years, in which we wondered whether to use that qualified group of judges of merit who work on the delicate task of the maximum, of course not in an occasional way but in accordance with the tables of the Court's organization and the same requirements as the office of the maximum. Then we introduce Article 1-a, which concerns certain changes to the Cassazione procedure. In essence, the use of the treatment in the chamber of council is generalized in civil proceedings that take place before the simple sections of the Court and also changes the procedure of the so-called filter in Cassation. This too is a rule discussed, elaborated and contained, albeit in the form of delegation, in the law of civil process reform already approved by the House, as I said before, and in evaluation here by us in the Senate. The President of the Commission has explained well that there is no problem of unconstitutionality and that the parties' disagreement is respected and has distinguished its nature, since the parties' contradiction in the formation of the evidence is different from the contradictory in the cassation. I would remind my colleagues, however, that there is a rule, paragraph 2 of Article 1-a, which, in a transitional way, excludes from the reform appeals filed after the entry into force of the law of conversion - it goes without saying - and those for which the hearing or meeting in the chamber of council has not yet been established. Again. Article 2, paragraph 1, extends the provision of training internships at the General Prosecutor's Office at the Court of Cassation, establishing that the training activity of the admitted to the internship is carried out in collaboration with the National Council forensics as well as with the specialization schools and legal professions. I have also mentioned this further rule to make it clear that there is systematic intervention to deal with the issue of backwardness in Cassazione. And again, ladies and gentlemen, the spectrum of intervention is widening and very interesting and important inclusions are also being made in the more general field of justice. Also in article 2, paragraphs 2 and 5, we intervene on the discipline of the competition for ordinary magistrate, allowing the appointment of candidates even beyond the number of places in notice to the contest in light of the actual needs of covering the offices and it is reduced, exceptionally, from eighteen to twelve months the duration of the internship of the magistrates who will be appointed following the competitions already banned in 2014 and 2015 in order to allow the new levers to carry out the judicial function as soon as possible. I must say that in this case, too, there has been intelligent intervention, without letting this valuable activity be discovered before the practical application of these magistrates to their vocations and their choice regarding judicial offices. In fact, it has been done in a way that reduces the theoretical formative part, since these magistrates have already had the opportunity to make so much theory (they have done so to an iosa, since they come from the specialization schools and have studied in a particular way to present themselves well and thus be able to win a very difficult and selective competition) and it has wanted, instead, to strengthen the part that already places them at the judicial offices. That is why this is also a quality choice that must be appreciated and underlined. In conclusion, a great deal has been discussed, President, about the famous article 5 that plans to retain in service until 31 December 2017 those who have reached the 72nd year of age at the date of 31 December 2016 and who would have been retired during the period between the aforementioned date and 30 December 2017. It is a controversial issue: we can find different solutions, all legitimate, but no one can move forward one and say that the others are norms ad personam or even are spoiled by unconstitutionality. The debate is always open. The government has chosen a path and I think this can be assessed in its consistency and merit. I also think that this choice can be supported. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, even in all the other rules in this decree-law, there is a further attempt to ensure that our justice system is reformed, innovated and improved. I have noticed many colleagues who have raised doubts and who, in a very honest way, have had to admit that there are no constitutional issues. That is why we are ready to enter the next stage and to launch this other bill, because we believe in the reform of justice, we know how complex it is, but we do not want to give up the duty to try.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u49	Senator Anitori, when I called you, you were absent. I still allow you to intervene for five minutes. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u50	ANITORI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to express a general appreciation for the content of this decree-law, because the aim of the measure is to achieve an effective composition among the various requirements that must be met in the administration of justice, the urgency of ensuring the speed and bureaucracy of the proceedings, the need to ensure working conditions that promote the professionalism and efficiency of the magistrates. I therefore intend to refer to some significant passages of the bill: first of all the provision of Article 1, whereby the magistrates employed in the office of the maximum and the role can be used exceptionally to compose the judicial colleges, both civil and criminal, of the Court of Cassation, with the just aim of strengthening the organizational garrisons necessary for a faster disposal of the backward. Always dealing with this topic, it is appreciated the intervention of the Chamber at first reading, which limited the application of the provision only to magistrates who have achieved the third professional evaluation and placing a three-year limit non renewable. Article 2 provides for measures to improve the efficiency of judicial offices: to cover the staff gaps of the ordinary judiciary, up to a tenth of the number of places available among those put in competition in the 2014-2015 two-year period will increase; moreover, it will be possible to obtain a faster coverage of vacancies in the staff of the first-degree judicial offices through the reduction of the internship, from eighteen to twelve months, of the magistrates declared suitable for the outcome of competitions launched in the years 2014 and 2015. Furthermore, with regard to the provisions of Article 3, I would like to stress that this applies only to the period of legitimacy within which a magistrate may apply for a transfer to another office or to another function. The extension to four years is dictated by the consideration, moreover easily shared, that the three-year term is not fully sufficient so that the magistrate can make an effective contribution to the full performance of the assigned assignments: when you enter a system, in fact, we must guarantee a time horizon that puts the magistrate in the condition to carry out that function with the necessary planning of the choices of the office and with the highest stability of the position, prerequisite for the full manifestation of professionalism and ability. I therefore believe that the rule of Article 4 also goes in the right direction, aimed at exploiting all the human resources available within the staff: it is established, in fact, that the staff of the chancellories and of the judicial secretariats and the staff assigned to the surveillance offices cannot be temporarily assigned to other offices of the judicial district of belonging without the nullity-host of the president of the supervisory court. At the same time and consistently, until 31 December 2019 the non-directive staff of the Ministry of Justice cannot be commanded, seconded or assigned to other administrations. The intervention of Articles 5 and 10 of the Decree-Law, far from representing violations of the principles relating to equality and equal treatment, let alone interference in the competences of an autonomous and independent order such as the judiciary, as it was felt during the discussion at the other branch of Parliament and also in this Senate, must be understood as strictly limited over time and aimed exclusively at ensuring continuity in the apical and managerial duties at the Supreme Court of Cassation, its general prosecutor, the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors' Court of Auditors, because of the multiple requests for reform for the definition of pending litigation. Chapter II of the Decree-Law is dedicated to the telematic administrative process. The articles in question contain important forecasts aimed at enabling the electronic administrative process to take place, laying down precise rules for the coordination and adaptation of the discipline to principles of common sense, functionality and simplicity of compliance. Specifically, the new process mechanisms based on technology, the launch of which is already scheduled for 1 January 2017, will be promoted by simplifying its operation, through the introduction of measures to harmonise the tools of the telematic administrative process with the code of the digital administration. I am referring in particular to the digital domicile and the extension to lawyers defenders of the attestation of the probative effectiveness of copies by image of paper documents. The same objective is pursued by measures aimed at extending the use of the procedures for the filing of documents also for entities not equipped with certified e-mails. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, this is an urgent measure which, after having also been duly integrated by Parliament, provides rapid, concrete and effective instruments to continue to attack, beyond the usual and sterile preconceived criticism, the chronic ills that afflict the field of justice of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u52	Senator Falanga, I also allow you to intervene for five minutes. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u53	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are 105 000 (or so) proceedings pending at the Court of Cassation in civil sections, of which 45 000 are in the tax sections. This situation has led the first President of the Court of Cassation to apply to the civil sections also the judges applied to the criminal law, but they are present in the various tax commissions, precisely to dispose of those 45,000 pending proceedings. It is, therefore, a situation of extraordinary exceptionality. I have heard remarks, even from very authoritative colleagues and authoritative lawyers, about the unconstitutionality of the decree-law. Many have escaped the title of Article 1-a of the Decree-Law: "Measures for the reasonable duration of the proceedings for the decision of the appeal by cassation". This is, therefore, the principle of reasonable duration of the process. Is that not a principle, ladies and gentlemen, stated in Article 111 of the Constitution? And, if we adopt a measure that goes in the direction of seeing a principle of the Constitution applied, how can we ever talk about an unconstitutional measure? President D'Ascola's reasoning for the truth is impeccable: the violation of the norm in relation to Article 3 of the Constitution (so on the theme of equality) must assume that the two conditions are identical. The idea of evaluating the same difficulties also in other judicial offices - obviously interesting idea, precisely to highlight the disparity of treatment - came to the Commission justice to a refined jurist, President Nitto Palma, who asked the Undersecretary to know the data - certainly, he could be provided with the data of the slopes in cassation, but not those at the prosecutors of the Republic - perhaps with a view to a reasoning of unconstitutionality and, therefore, of violation of Article 3, just to place the two judicial offices in the same conditions of difficulty. This element cannot be detected; this element has not been offered. Only in the face of a similarity of difficulties between two judicial offices can one possibly speak of an unconstitutionality of the norm, because the legislator would have dealt with and solved the problem of a judicial office and would instead have left the other office under the same conditions without the "help" measure to dispose of the judicial burden. That's the problem. Then we have, in a way, a measure that goes in the direction of affirming the principle of the reasonable duration of the process. And I would remind you that you have been told by an operator of the law who operates in those judicial offices that, in the current situation, it would take thirty years to reset back. Then we have as our first point the affirmation of the principle of the reasonable duration of the process, indicated as the title of Article 1-a. Secondly, we have no proof that there are any other judicial offices - there are none - which are in the same situation of excessive judicial burden. Hence the extraordinary nature of the intervention. Then there is another point. It is not true - as Senator Caliendo said - that the lawyer is stripped of his prerogatives because he does not participate in the boardroom. First of all, the lawyer writes, and generally we talk about civil cases, and the general principle that accompanies the civil trial is that of the writings, which are offered to the court. Not only that: the derogation is also provided, i.e. when the section president considers that this matter deserves to be explained by the parties, they have access to the boardroom. So, even by saying verse, this profile seems to me to be completely irrelevant. The fact remains: you have heard of provision ad personam or ad personas; they have said everything and more. But if there is an organization which is currently trying to establish a constitutional principle, why should we not imagine that a one-year extension will be given to those who are working? I believe that the entire judiciary is also offended, because one thing is to make an ad personam measure to Senator Falanga, or to Senator Cuomo who is in front of me, and one thing is to think of making an ad personam measure to the first judicial authority, the first President of the Court of Cassation. It does not seem to me that these are statements that give praise to our Parliament and our institutions. Let us look at the merits of the measure, which goes in the direction I have indicated. I, as an operator of law and as a citizen, can only complain about the perennial and continuous violation of the reasonable duration of the trial. Anyone who takes action so that our country can guarantee a reasonable duration of the trial, I support it. The AL-A Group supports this measure, but always with a view to sharing those measures that we appreciate. And this is an urgent and extraordinary measure that we cannot stand in the way of. We cannot stand in the way of a government that adopts a measure that sees a principle of constitutional standing affirmed. We cannot do that, whether we do or not, we support or not. For reasons of constitutional law and rank, I would like to have a slightly broader discussion with Senators Caliendo and Gasparri on the issue of the unconstitutionality of the measure under consideration. I'm a pragmatic... president. Senator Falanga, your time is over. I invite you to conclude. FALANGA (AL-A). Do I have to close? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He had already concluded. FALANGA (AL-A). I conclude by saying that, even if the Constitutional Court were to proclaim the unconstitutionality of the measure, it would have passed the year. Therefore, I would advise against myself and other acts of attitudes and conduct that go in the direction of zero utility. I would like to announce that we will vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u54	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply. He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so. SANTANGELO (M5S). I say no!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2550, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 168 of 31 August 2016, into the text approved by the House of Deputies. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u56	The Presidency takes note of the issue of trust and gives immediate notice to the President of the Senate, who will be followed by the convening of the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.18 p.m. and resumed at 12.55).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u57	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the decree-law on the efficiency of judicial offices, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the general discussion on confidence, which will begin at 2.30 p.m., one hour and twenty minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The final explanations of vote will take place from 3.50 p.m. He will then call you at 5.30 p.m. Soon after the vote of confidence, the sitting will be closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u60	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for clarification, although it seems clear to me that since the sitting will be suspended, will the Commissions which were to meet today at 2.30 p.m. be allowed to convene at the end of the sitting?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u61	Thank you for your speech. It is clear that the Commission, given the advance of the debate on trust, will be able to recover and meet at the end of the sitting. I therefore suspend the sitting until 2.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.57 p.m. and resumed at 2.31 p.m.) The session is resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, as already announced to the parliamentary groups on the short lines, tomorrow's Question Time session, at 4 p.m., the Minister for Education, University and Research, Senator Stefania Giannini, will answer questions on the following topics: measures of public support for research and the university system; problems related to the start of the school year, with particular reference to the recruitment of teachers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u62	I declare open the debate on the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u65	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask you to check whether or not the presence of the rapporteur and the President of the Commission is necessary and appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u66	You're right, Senator Calderoli. Therefore, pending the arrival of the rapporteur, I shall briefly suspend the sitting. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). President, give us a precise time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm gonna suspend the session for four minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 14.33 p.m. and resumed at 14.37 p.m.) The session is resumed. He is enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo, he has the right to speak. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). There's no government! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The government is here. I ask the government representative to take a seat at the government desks, otherwise it is not identifiable. We can now, I hope, start the debate on the issue of trust. Senator Caliendo is enlisted to speak. You have the right, if you stop talking on the phone... you mean you've given up. [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] He's the only one inscribed, Senator Caliendo, or he speaks or renounces. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I give up, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As there are no other members to speak, I declare the debate on the matter of trust closed and I suspend the sitting until 15.50, as agreed at the Conference of the Leaders, to continue with the explanations of vote. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 2.38 p.m. and resumed at 3.50 p.m.) Let's get back to work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u69	IN MAY (CoR). Madam President, I think the comment is already spontaneous. It is enough to look at this House to express what a feeling and what attention we have towards such an important measure. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, what can be said about this measure if we do not once again denounce the method that now characterizes this majority, which has in contempt parliamentary rules and regulations, and note that often the method and the merit of the measures coincide with the contempt of Parliament and contempt for the country? A disgrace that is the trademark of this government's action. We have so much and too long talked in this House about the presuppositions of necessity and urgency, about the necessary homogeneity of the subjects that are regulated by decree-law, about the ontological lack of such requirements in cases of legal reform, about the government's usurpation of the legislative power to the body constitutionally responsible for exercising it, that is to say to Parliament. By now, little convincedly, we recite and propose prejudices. My group has abstained this time, but I do appreciate the perseverance of colleagues who are still able to devote their time to this task. A kind of mantra, like an unbearable deny that no one will listen to. But, paraphrasing the famous sentence on the judge in Berlin: lively God, will there be a Colle in this paroxystic Capital that will lend ear? Or will we be forced to write the new sleeping beauty fairy tale on the Hill? But how do you, in the persevering filth of institutions, ask to lower your tones? Tell me, how do you do that? Unless you want to read in the President of the Republic's call Wittgenstein's famous silence, that silence... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Maggio, as you know, the President of the Republic is not the subject of discussion in the Senate Chamber, so please stay within the time limits. IN MAY (CoR). Madam President, I am in due course and the points of order are relevant. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He used some expressions that aren't... They are part of the political criticism, and I do not think that it will punish political criticism as well. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The President of the Republic is indisputable, according to our Constitution, so please stick to the constitutional constraints. [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] IN MAY (CoR). I stand by, Madam President. Unless our President of the Republic on this point does not want to represent Wittgenstein's silence, that is, that silence which is not the absence of speech, but is the extreme limit of it. But, indeed, it seems to me too elitist a reference to the cultural level of this Government. On these incomprehensible silences the President-in-Office of the Council, who has suppressed us, has suppressed the parliamentary debate and, finally, has broken one thing: the heart of our democracy. This is yet another measure which not only presents very serious constitutional vulnus, which has also been noted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but is carried out in total disregard of the problems it will create for legal practitioners, in its absolute useless in order to make a valid contribution to the reduction of the times of civil justice. And I am sorry that Senator Falanga is not here this morning, and he too has tried - through his good offices - to make a fig leaf on this measure. The decree-law under consideration does not even respond to the citizens' demands for justice and, not least, to the international competitiveness and image of the country, unless dinners overseas also serve to enhance the standing of our judicial system. I was not saying last, because, finally, the measure under consideration a mephitic function has it: it pays the debt contracted with those impartial judges who allowed to dismiss the referendum question as it pleased this Government. So what do you say? I do not want to upset the sensitivity of the 160-180 senators who constitute this majority (and I say 160-180 because this is a variable majority depending on the question of the moment): I will not say that of marchette; I will say that with this measure they reward those judges who have allowed to make that loot. And I will no longer speak, as I have been invited to do, of post-rebulations; I will say that Parliament is now reduced to the market, where, in the total indifference of the Presidency and Quirinale, the commodity of laws has become customary. Madam President, the ad personam laws were beginner exercises. Here we touch with our hand the most blatant and flaunted contempt of democratic rules. An evil pact has been confiscated between two powers of the State to the detriment of another. Attention - above all to the Presidency - that the sloppyness and superficiality with which this dangerous drift is accompanied necessarily lead to no longer reasoning with the political opponents, because if you are against democratic rules, if you trample on and take care of the opposition spaces and if you are against the dictates of the Constitution, in the end, the political opponent becomes the enemy. This has produced the obtuse and pervicacious contempt on the part of the President-in-Office of the Council for the rules of the game. It produced a split and divided country, where feelings of impotence and dissatisfaction covano animosio and grudge, as I think it is natural. Then you can't intervene to say to lower your tones. We do not need a sensal (and I point out, among other things, that the word "sensal" comes from Arabic and whoever takes this position usually has a part in the game). We need a Head of State who resumes and sanctions those who move outside the rules of the game, a guarantor, in short, as the President-in-Office rightly says and as the current Constitution does not recommend, but imposes. In this Babel of rules, functions and procedures this wicked provision is inserted, which seals and pays misdeeds consumed in combut between the Executive and the judiciary. It seems obvious that the Conservative and Reformist Group, anchored in constitutional dictates, will vote against. [[Applause from the COR Group and Senators Bignami and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u70	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo delle scienze umani (Lyceum of Human Sciences) San Bartolomeo di Sansepolcro, in the province of Arezzo, who attend our work. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u73	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, as we have already said in the context of the preliminary question, this decree-law is not only a matter of concern, but also of certainty that it is a clearly unconstitutional measure. Converting an unconstitutional decree-law means, at this point, not to force, but to proceed in contempt and in violation of the Constitutional Charter, to which we should be inspired, but seeing the outrage that this majority and the Government have unfortunately done against the Constitutional Charter with the modification they have proposed, probably this can only be framed in their way of understanding the institutions. As some have said, the current majority was probably born on the basis of the belief that winning the elections means being the owners of the institutions. Having to examine the law of conversion of a decree-law in the matter of justice is even more penalising: it is not the first decree-law, but the umpteenth, but it is a decree-law that is spoiled since its inception by the obvious prediction of discrimination and a clear violation of the constitutional principles of equality and independence and autonomy of the judiciary, protected by Articles 104 and 107 of the Constitution, which reads: The judges are distinguished from each other only because of the diversity of their duties. We therefore think that we must seize the opportunity to say that surely that in our examination is not a decree that solves the problems of justice, it is not a decree that speeds up justice, it is not a decree that simplifies justice and, of course, we do not go towards what was to be the "great reform of justice." We can now reflect on this, given that the parliamentary term has gone on and the time is ripe for conclusions to be drawn. If we reflect on what the current state of justice is in order to realize whether there has been an improvement in its state of health, we can say that no higher level of efficiency has been achieved and, if there are, the improvements are perhaps more due to the individual operators of the law, who every day attend the courts and try to compensate with their skills and professionalism to the shortcomings of the system. Perhaps you do not realize, ladies and gentlemen, that you no longer have Berlusconi's alibi: you no longer have the excuse to say that the reform cannot be achieved because of the centre-right. You have had the opportunity to give answers to those who want the justice system to be efficient or at least dignified. These answers have not been given at all and this is also felt by the world of business and economy, for which the inefficiency of justice has become a tara and a disease of the system, which has long since reduced the appetite of our markets. In fact, a foreign company or company sees a time frame for the recovery of such a long and cumbersome credit that the creditor can only dream of recovering it. Just think of the systems in our system and the fact that the legislation on civil executions is constantly being amended, as in recent measures, almost as if someone, the Ministry of Justice, liked to work on civil execution, as if it were not already difficult and sophisticated enough. You missed another opportunity when we talked about the provision on the reform of the criminal trial, under the Senate. This was a great missed opportunity, since it could actually have affected the system of law and criminal proceedings, in order to give answers not only to legal practitioners, but also to citizens. That reform, gentlemen, has been prey to a political jam and has fallen into the swamp of politics, contradictions and political divisions within you. The opportunity has been missed, because in that measure rules such as those aimed at tightening the penalties for predatory crimes had been included, an instance that the North League has continued to advocate for years. A measure on justice, on which the question of trust is raised, is even more disturbing. Because the question of confidence on this measure means that for you there are uncertainties, uncertainties that we are convinced come from the fact that some colleagues in the majority, who work in the legal world, understand the shortcomings of the measures. On the other hand, we are here with yet another imposition of government will on powers belonging to this Parliament, such as intervention. There is nothing more to be seen here than an anticipation of the results that you expect from the reform of the Constitution: what you want to achieve is a system in which the Government dominates and Parliament executes. However, we will never vote in favour of a measure such as the one we are debating today, until we see a measure on justice that provides for the tightening of penalties, a imprisonment that is effective when it is foreseen and not continually subject to conditions, rites and alternative penalties, until we arrive at a system with certainties about the penalty, with rules that also affect the legitimate defence, as we have argued. I am thinking, for example, of the measure that came to the House's examination of the amendment of self-defense, which at this historic moment is important and responds to a request made by all citizens. This is another measure that has been frustrated by the speeches in the Chamber of Deputies, while it was supposed to be a real change that gave answers to those citizens who say: if criminals do not put them in jail, if for the thefts you do not go to jail even if you are multi-recurring, what do I have to do to defend my home? [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] As long as there is no provision for these rules on justice, we will never vote in favour. Now we are faced with a matter of trust, but we will never be able to give confidence to this Government, to those who want to call themselves an operator of the law but in reality is an anatomopathologist, because you have destroyed the right: it is already dead. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u76	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, we continue here with the decree-laws, many of which come from the Justice Commission. Mrs Stefani has just spoken of the sense of justice of Italians, of prison, of crimes. Well, with a vow of confidence, you approved the street murder that, according to the news, they go to prison for years family mothers, very prudent boys, not drunks, not drug addicts who went slowly and maybe in a parking lot reversing they touched a person's foot, they fractured it and now they find their lives ruined, destroyed. This was done through a vote of confidence imposed by the Government. Yesterday we saw the first positive results of the measure on cohabitation contracts: the Court of Cassation has established that it is enough to sign one of these contracts and you are no longer expelled from Italy, even if you have committed crimes, even if until yesterday you had to be expelled mandatory. This is because the Court of Cassation states that the cohabitation contract is exactly the same as the civil union, which is equal to marriage, so the rules on marriage apply. According to the Penal Court, the first section, anyone who signs a contract of coexistence, even if underground, even if he has committed crimes, even if he had to be expelled, must no longer be expelled from our country. Go and see the National Newspaper, which devoted the first page to the theme, with an article by Ruffolo commenting on the madness of this Parliament. Now we find ourselves again with a decree-law, with a trust and four steps away from delirium. Mrs Lo Moro said that certainly the Committee on Constitutional Affairs noted that the measure under discussion is clearly unconstitutional and also explained why, but in the end the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, after pointing out the unconstitutional nature of the text, voted in favour of rejecting the preliminary constitutionality (there would be no more!). We do not understand where the logical passage is, but Mrs Lo Moro continued by saying: we are opposed to the content of the decree-law and with the amendments we are sure that the majority of this House (majority and opposition) will be able to change it, unless trust is placed. And here it is: trust has been placed. And for the umpteenth time, Mr Lo Moro's wishes end in tragedy. But how? The other day in the Commission, at 8 p.m., a night sitting was held to close the debate because it was vital that this decree-law should be converted on Tuesday. It's Wednesday. Sometimes it really feels like it's in an Italian comedy, a disassociation in methods, not to mention merit. Today I spoke of a decree-law that particularly concerns the first president of the Court of Cassation, the decree Canzio, but then I deepened: this decree-law applies to personam, only to some magistrates of the Cassation, because it is a bala - let's say lie, which is perhaps more Italian - that the decree-law also applies to the magistrates of the Court of Auditors, to those of the Council of State, to the accounting and administrative ones. How many judges are the Court of Auditors and the Council of State to whom this decree-law applies? No one. Is that a fig leaf? Was anyone ashamed of the fact that it was only applicable to some magistrates of the cassation? Mr Di Maggio spoke of an award, of a do ut des. Surely there is also a question: why is the prize graduated? Do you know that there are those who, like the first president, are being extended by one year (to retire on 1 January and to be extended to 31 December), and others, instead of that small list, have an extension of only three months? Not only, therefore - as Giovanardi said not, but the National Association of Judges - have become sons and stepchildren among the same magistrates, who have apical positions on the territory and would have had the same right, but, also within the beneficiaries, the rewarded, there has been a ranking: they have benefited more some, who will stay one year longer than expected, compared to others, who instead will remain three months longer. In the films it is written: Each reference is purely random. Do you want there to be a relationship between these things and the fact that President Canzio refuses to assign to the united sections a decision on the problem of stepchild adoptions, adoptions, and if - I quote a case that is topical - Mr Nichi Vendola, who went abroad, bought a child with the uterus for rent, could or could not, in three months' time, adopt the child? According to what the first civil section, pre-constituted in art, said, can do so and was about to decide also the sixth section. But why, in a rule of law, since the law provides for this for the uniqueness of the jurisdiction, the first President of the Supreme Court, since the Attorney General asked him in writing at the hearing, dozens of senators and MPs wrote it and the Parliament deleted the stepchild adoption, does he not refer the decision to the United Chambers? Why don't you let the united sections that have to do this by law decide? Why does he send us a letter, ironic or teasing, in which he says that "by practice" makes the section concerned decide? In practice, does the section concerned decide when the first president is responsible? Mr Quagliariello recalled the incredible question of referendario, which also tells lies. In fact, if they wanted to tell the truth, they would have to write: Italians, do you want the bicameralism to be confirmed, even if with different functions between the Chamber and Senate of the Regions? Italians, do you want there to be a saving on the policy of 0.0005 percent, as defined by the State Accounting? [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]] But no. Another text has passed to the cassation. So, Mr Quagliariello raised the problem: is there any relationship between this award and that kind of behavior? Isn't the government's policy affecting the magistrates? Other than polemics about us defends itself in the trials, not from the trials. I remember that in 1994-1996, two famous representatives of Forza Italia, whose name I don't mention, discussed with each other, a good, diligent one, prepared all the extras and the other that said to him: "But why are you so busy? In trials, to win, just buy the judges and you've solved the problem, you've already won the case. There's no need for a trial. It is enough to establish a certain relationship with the magistrates who have to decide and the problem is solved. The things I say are telling you in cassation, in court of appeal, in courts, the lawyers tell you. Already in a question from a few months ago and in public interventions we had wondered if the rumors were true, that, in the face of certain incredible behaviors, of violation of the law, someone could think of rewarding those who held these behaviors. Here you are: decree-law, record times, you run to give this award. Some Members have wondered whether we are in a rule of law or whether we are now in a relationship in which the Government is playing with the judiciary to make favourable decisions by violating the law and making fun of citizens. I am not talking here about the merits of matters. I'm not saying whether the adoption of a child by a gay couple or the obnoxious practice of the womb for rent is acceptable in our order or not. Although I note, even at European level, the dramatization of this infamous slavery of women. All I'm saying is that there is a body in charge of our order, that of the united sections of the Cassation, which must decide. Moreover, Parliament itself, when, again by decree-law, it approved civil unions, deleted stepchild adoption by saying that the existing legislation should be applied. And who is to determine whether or not existing legislation should be applied? Still the sixth section, against which we went to make a protest in front of the Cassation, was about to decide on a case that had not been made public before, so much so that you could not even read the relative acts. The court of Campobasso and the court of appeal had rejected the claim of two gentlemen, who had married in America, to adopt children. In the face of a decision of first instance and appeal, it turns out to us that the Cassation was to decide in the opposite direction. But why did it have to be the sixth section? Then, as soon as we did the demonstration, the sixth section said that it had no competence in this matter and referred it back to the first section. Do you realize what's going on? I don't want to talk about merit, I want to talk about method. Here we continue to violate the law and continue to reward those who violate the law. And if he's the first president of the cassation to violate it, it's even worse! That is why we have also written to the Head of State: someone must intervene to enforce the rules of the game. Then the best team will win, but you have to finish with this attitude and with shameful decrees like this. With absolute conviction, therefore, we will vote for the distrust of a government that behaves in such a shameful way. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u79	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, the President of the Republic gives an Italian mandate to form a government team. This is done and the President-designate, the Premier, comes to Parliament to ask for confidence. What is happening from a purely constitutional point of view? Parliament's control of the government is taking place. Another hypothesis: the current government has a law and believes that it trusts that law. The question is reversed, because it is the Government that comes to Parliament and controls (now the Government and no longer the Parliament) its majority. They are two issues, two moments, politically speaking, completely different. Now, as a group, we did not trust President Renzi when he came here to Parliament to ask for trust, on the basis of a programme. In fact, the Premier addresses Parliament with his own programme and we (I speak of my colleagues in the Group who were in other political forces at the time, particularly in Forza Italia) did not share that programme, with which he presented himself to Parliament, and therefore we did not vote for trust. In the course of the fulfilment of the mandate of government some laws were discussed that were not in that program, but that were shared by us. Let me give a trivial example: the circulation of cash up to a value of 3,000 euros was something that we wanted to be center-right and so it was right that we should vote for it. The abolition of the IMU was a battlehorse of President Berlusconi and we voted for that measure. This means that the confidence we are about to give today is limited exclusively to this measure. [[Senator Palma's ironic applause]] Why do we vote for this measure, Mr Palma? She, with her legal refinement, has stimulated me the observation of response to those who sanctioned this measure as unconstitutional: by engaging in the reasoning of President D'Ascola, for there to be a hypothesis of unconstitutionality, there must be a law that on two identical situations arranges differently for one and the other. Colleagues, we have 105,000 civil proceedings pending in cassation. We have - and will have for the next 30 years - a constant violation of the constitutional principle set out in Article 111 of the Constitution, namely the reasonable duration of the trial. If there are measures aimed at reducing this burden of justice for the affirmation of a constitutional principle, I wonder how the measure can be sanctioned through unconstitutionality. This is one reason that is added to the other, of which I have just said, because there is no other judicial office in our country that has such an excessive judicial burden. We therefore have two judicial offices in two completely different conditions: the Cassation, which has 106,000 pending proceedings, and the various courts and prosecutors, who have - or at least have no proof of this - the same judicial burden and intervenes where there is that situation, in order to remedy a constitutional violation. That's all. We will vote for trust and what does that mean? We have said this on a number of occasions and in various ways: voting on confidence in the measure means sharing and voting on the measure. It is not an enlarged confidence, which we give anyway and for the most varied reasons: we vote for confidence on the measures we believe we can share. Tomorrow, if the government put its trust in a measure that we, as liberals, could verify that it has nothing liberal, we will not vote for trust. This is the most correct way of fulfilling the parliamentary mandate. And we at AL-A are giving a lesson in democracy. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We who? You're alone! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u80	Don't interrupt Senator Falanga who is finishing his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u81	FALANGA (AL-A). I'll provoke you. We are giving you - and I repeat - a lesson in democracy. We vote on what our conscience requires us to vote on. [[Comments by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]] We have no party discipline, let's not say no regardless. Senator Giovanardi, here we are talking about the decree-law that provides for the extension of the Supreme Court of Cassation and that goes to revisit the proceedings before the Court of Cassation and you speak of stepchild adoption. I wonder, what does that have to do with anything? Say no, always and regardless! And let's hear the illustrious colleague Stefani from the North League talk about thefts in the apartments. But I'm sorry, what does this have to do with anything? Let us talk about the measure we are examining. Don't you want to approve? Good. Do you want me to keep this judicial burden in the cassation of over 105,000 proceedings? Isn't the government going to be able to dispose of that shipment with this measure? It may be, but I appreciate the attempt, I appreciate the willingness, however, to intervene. And don't talk about ad personam measures. It is not appropriate, when speaking, not already of Ciro Falanga or Senator Milo, but of the first President of the Court of Cassation, the highest authority of the justice of our country, who certainly does not need to remain in service a year longer. In fact, maybe we're asking him for a pleasure, which he'll probably do to us. CUOMO (PD). I don't want to ask her the pleasure! FALANGA (AL-A). He is making himself available to his country to resolve or try to solve the problems of justice. I am not, Senator Calderoli, an anatomopathologist of the law; I do not rip the right, I examine it with the wisdom of a course of studies that you do not have, because you have always been interested, yes, in surgery or medicine. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please conclude, Senator Falanga. FALANGA (AL-A). For these reasons, with conviction, we will vote in favour of the confidence placed by the government, inviting you once again, where you never - and I understand this - do not like it, to accept, because you have to accept it, our lesson in democracy. [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut and GAL Groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and the Senators Palma, Cuomo and Buccarella.]] BUCCARELLA (M5S). President, pity!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u84	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). I would like to thank the President for giving me the floor, but I am sorry that the students and teachers have left, because a lesson in democracy that the Senate gives to us could have been particularly interesting for them. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]] Personally, I am always attentive to the lessons, dear Senator Falanga, and I realized that she said that this decree-law is a good decree-law and therefore AL-A, the Group built by Verdini to help the Renzi Government, not yet accepted in majority, in this case will vote for it. But I ask all of us: why, if this decree-law is so strong, acceptable and without problems, has trust been placed? Why not have the House approve it quickly? I must say that I appreciated the charm with which the Minister for relations with Parliament called for yet another confidence. But if it were still in the Chamber (which it is not), I would like to ask you a little clarification, that is, I would like to ask you what has changed in the last twenty days. Indeed, Madam President, as you will recall, on 28 September the President-in-Office of the Council, Matteo Renzi, on another, more general measure, said that he tended to exclude confidence in the reform of justice under discussion in the Senate, because it was essentially a hostile act against the National Judicial Association. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] This measure also concerns that function (the judiciary, the exercise of the process), which is a function for which the Constitution has provided for a strong autonomy from the other powers of the State. Of course, the objection is that Parliament has a duty to make laws. Of course, but at least it is Parliament that makes the laws, that discusses them in a transparent way, that makes sense to that idea that Parliament legislates in the name of the people and represents the people. So let us be clear that the reason why Minister Boschi asked for confidence is that some critical amendments, submitted to the decree-law by the majority (who was present today heard the intervention of Senator Lo Moro), were not acceptable to another part of the majority itself and would have made the convergence of the Group of Senators Verdini and Falanga, that is, of the AL-A Group, with the Government difficult. That is why we need to cut off the debate, to expel the Commission and to come to this House with confidence. It will be said that everything is legitimate, because the Government has a majority. It is true that the Government has a majority, but we must ask ourselves, after three years, what a majority this Government has. In part, it is a majority that derives from the disproportionate award provided for by an electoral law that was commonly called Porcellum and which was declared unconstitutional. In part, it comes from the acquisition of the consents of parts of the main opposition party, which were seduced by the transformist politics of the Renzi Government. Such a majority imposes its law of trust, systematically exonerates the Commissions and therefore humiliates the House, because there is no debate in this House: we vote in this House. You see, the absence of senators in here is not due to an impertinent meridian demon who took them at a late age, it's probably due to the feeling that there's no point in being there. It is only an extra confidence, as we have seen so many of them; it is an extra Commission that has been deported (and President D'Ascola was happy, of course), as we have seen so many. I remember some of these very serious violations of parliamentary law. I am not talking about the President of the Republic, Madam President, to whom we must refer as little as possible from these Aules. However, I am talking about parliamentary law. I remember one, which is still dear to me: during the discussion of the school reform law, the Education Commission of this Senate was oriented to profoundly changing the provision. At some point, even the President-in-Office of the Council had convinced himself that it was useful to change that reform and said so in a public broadcast from Vespa. But then he thought about it; some senators and some Members went to him and told him that they had put their faces on it, the President of the Council saw the opportunity to move on, took the measure away from the Commission, which could not discuss it, and put it through with confidence. This is the reformism of the Renzi Government. But I wonder: is it a good reformism? Of course, it breaks the eggs of parliamentary law, traditions and, in my opinion, often behaves unconstitutionally, but does it at least produce good reforms? I would point out to you, regarding the school, that a recent survey carried out on behalf of the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" and commented by Ilvo Diamanti said that the majority of Italians, given the reform after more than a year, rejected it and gave it a poor five, while, look at it, defended all those teachers humiliated, deported, put under administrative control and confused by contradictory legislation. A regulation for which, first, it has been said that it could not be requested to return home before three years from the acceptance of the assignment and then, instead, came, from the government and the majority, an amendment that has been inserted in the provision for which, after a year, it falls. So, whoever didn't agree to go out because he had a family and maybe because he was good and thought he was called to his house, he stayed completely on the street. Teachers are saved from that opinion poll. But I'd like to say something else. We have all seen how successful our President-in-Office of the Council has been in Washington; currently, as an Italian, I am happy with those pats, those hugs, that silver dress of our first lady (I don't know if we can call her that) next to the golden one of Michelle Obama. But today a great cartoonist in a newspaper that is not really a sheet of the extreme left, the \"Corriere della Sera", imagines that Renzi fell out of the chair during that state dinner because news had come to him from Italy. The news from Italy says that stable recruitments in the first eight months of 2016 have collapsed by more than 30 percent compared to 2015, because there are no more incentives (but the serious thing is that they are less than 2014); that the transformations of contracts from temporary to permanent have decreased compared to 2015; that the only good result - among many quotes the adjective "good" - of jobs act is that dismissals have increased strongly for just cause, now that there is no longer Article 18 of the workers' statute. The jobs act was a much more serious failure than the good school, because it did not even start those active labour policies that exist in Germany, so the unemployed worker is vexed until he accepts a job, which are the other part of a policy of this kind and which are hoped for by the same institutions that applaud obtorto neck Renzi's reforms. Not even this was in the jobs act; there was only one putting our boys back to market anarchy, because the reformism of our government is random, confused and instrumental. It is random, because the reasons for the reforms are linked to the state of public opinion: at a certain point it is understood that a topic is popular and, then, so on. You have seen the measure on the abolition of Equitalia of course, to smooth off from the fur side a piece of the Italian people. This is populism, but we cannot talk about populism because many colleagues think it is an insult to opposition; instead there is a very strong populism of government, indeed often populism is mainly of government. He's confused, because reforms contain things that can't be together. Think of constitutional reform, with those senators who must be elected by the Regional Councils, but in accordance with the wishes of the electorate; then, if the Regional Council has the possibility to elect freely, how can it do so in accordance with that will? There will be an appeal. And, then, the reformism of the President of the Council is instrumental: it serves essentially to affirm its grip on the majority and the institutions and its maintenance to the Government. This is what we are witnessing: it is a very bleak picture. From this point of view, I think that, with constancy, we must fight and ask the government to account every time, even if we are tired, even if it seems useless to us. President-in-Office of the Council, why did you say that you would never dream of trusting a matter of justice and today we are voting on confidence in this measure? [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u87	Mr Albertini (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, on behalf of the People's Area Group (New Centre for the Union of the Centre), I support the Senate Act 2550, which converted Decree-Law 168 of 31 August 2016 into law on the efficiency of judicial offices, administrative justice and litigation at the Court of Cassation. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u90	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, by a majority which has adopted with a double parliamentary passage a shameful and dangerous constitutional reform; by a parliamentary majority which has adopted an electoral law which we already know is unconstitutional, no less than that which has led the current Members of the House and of the Senate to sit here; by a parliamentary majority which has long since destroyed Article 77 of the Constitution in the matter of urgent decree; by a parliamentary majority which forces the work in the parliamentary committees, in the application of the Rules of Procedure, in the replacement of its members during the process of constitutional reform, which continues to affix a number of issues of trust which we have lost track of (now I do not know how many); by a majority such as this, which moves with a safeguard and aggressiveness that seek to be hidden from the Renzano decisions, we are obviously not surprised by the outcome of today, which we had also feared this morning, namely that this law of conversion of a decree-law ends with the affirmation of trust. What can we do? I must confess that there is a desire to leave the Chamber or to ask ourselves many times: "What are we doing here?" Maybe we could be more useful outside this building, maybe doing information or counter-information. But every time we find reasons to be able to play our role of opposition with the weapons at our disposal and to leave in the acts of the Senate testimony of what we say and of the things we do. Also because - it is never known - one day if someone were to support the unconstitutional profiles of so many legislative measures such as this one, he could have the convenience of accessing some motivation of which, not so much myself but colleagues far more authoritative than I, have left traces in the acts. The question of Articles 5 and 10 of the text has already been discussed extensively this morning in the context of the illustration of the constitutional prejudices. There is a great misunderstanding here that even in the answers of the rapporteur and other representatives of the majority has pretended to ignore. The problem of discrimination created by the measure allowing the extension only to the judges in 72 years old who hold apical positions in the Court of Cassation, excluding all the others, could be eliminated - in fact there were amendments in that direction - simply by extending all the magistrates (civil, administrative, accounting and tax) in 72 years, thus establishing a general extension, as has already been done. On the other hand, it must be agreed that limiting the application of this rule to those seven or eight names leaves open the hypothesis of suspicion, which has been put forward here by several colleagues that it is a targeted rule, which can even be a sort of commodity of exchange, for example in relation to recent determinations of the Supreme Court in the matter of legitimacy of the questions of a certain constitutional referendum. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We don't like living in suspicion. That is why the profiles of constitutional illegitimacy in relation to the above two articles could be overcome by a rule that takes into account what the rapporteur and the majority had represented us: there is a heavy burden in the Court of Cassation; losing the President, the Prosecutor General and others would have involved in the flooding, further difficulties, so that the effectiveness of the measure should also be extended to the other magistrates. This profile of unconstitutionality remains. I must also say that I have listened carefully - and it is a pity that he is now engaged in a telephone conversation - to the President of the Commission, the Justice Commission, who is an extremely esteemed person for his legal powers as well. However, I was surprised when you replied this morning, with reference to the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, that there is actually no violation of the contradictory - I am now talking about the amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure - by the provision. Senator Falanga obviously did not read the text in depth enough, because I heard him argue for reassuring arguments that are denied by the norm. The thing that we denounce with regard to the amendment of the articles of the Code of Civil Procedure relating to the procedure for the inadmissibility of appeals does not concern the fact that it is a board of directors. Moreover - perhaps this has escaped my colleague, Senator and lawyer Falanga, who even though, imbued with liberal spirit, just ago wanted to give us a nice and, I suppose, humorous lesson of democracy - in the text you are about to approve with confidence there is no longer the possibility of being heard in the chamber of council; attention, there is no more. Today there is in the Code of Civil Procedure (Article 380-a et seq.). He's gone. There is another thing that fails, on which there has also been no reply. In the case of a declaration of inadmissibility, the parties are represented by lawyers today, but let's remember that there are citizens behind the lawyers. There is someone in this country who still believes that justice can be administered in a third and impartial way. Today the rapporteur of the Court of Cassation deposits at the Registry a report with the concise explanation of the reasons for a decision of inadmissibility and then is fixed the chamber hearing at which the parties, if they so request, can participate, but tomorrow no longer. The forecast of the concise exposition of the reasons for a possible inadmissibility disappears in the new text of Article 380- bis of the Code of Civil Procedure as provided for in the draft law. This means that things change when the citizen goes from his lawyer, who, for a given reason reaches the third degree of judgment and complains that in previous judgments a rule has been poorly applied, or in any case asks the Court of Cassation to rule. If the Court of Cassation considers that there is a profile of inadmissibility, the citizen will not be able to know the reasons for the decision. So even the possibility of depositing memories before the hearing in the council room will remain an empty provision, as what can be written to reply if you do not know why the appeal was declared inadmissible? Obviously the legislative policy of this majority and this government continues to "solve" the problem of justice not already with virtuous and rational solutions that also need the use of resources and money. If I am not mistaken, a share of more than 1.3% of our GDP is destined for justice; this percentage must increase, in accordance with what other European countries have done, also in order to allow more appropriate recruitment and means. The majority and the government proceed instead with closures, procedural traps, judicial desertification, court closures, increased unified contribution and so on. Finally, there is another nice aspect that will make legal practitioners and administrativeists jump in the chair. The Chamber of Deputies has been amended to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, aimed at introducing the new Article 13-b into the administrative code, which allows the administrative judge, i.e. the TAR, not to read and, therefore, not to take into account the defensive arguments beyond the page "x" (which is not yet known, as it is to be fixed by an administrative measure) of an appeal or defensive act. The approval of such a rule is the death of every fair trial and equals the denial of being able to assert before an impartial judge its legitimate interests and subjective rights. This prediction, which obliges the parties to contingent their defences to a predetermined extent of pages, is ridiculous, inconsistent and seriously contrary to the Constitution. It is ridiculous because defensive forensic activity cannot be reduced to a mere computation of characters, margins and interlines. It is incongruous because it does not take into account that there are disputes that require a broad discussion and others less and that, in the first case, all the possible defence must be explained and exercised. Above all, it is gravely unconstitutional, because it allows the judge not to take into account what is inserted beyond the defensional limits. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buccarella, I invite you to conclude. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, a few lines and I have finished. The provision violates Article 101 of the Constitution, from which it is derived that the judge is subject to the law and to it alone and that he has a duty to answer all questions and arguments of the parties. This provision also violates, no less scandalously, Article 24 of the Constitution, resolving the measure in an effective and incomprehensible violation of the principle of protection of legitimate rights and interests. Article 113 is also concerned, which always allows protection against administrative acts without limits as to the manner and means of appeal. This means that no limit can be set to the way we defend ourselves against the administration and, less so, a very ridiculous limit can be allowed to the number of pages so that the judge can avoid the burdens of his office. For these reasons I say no, we say no. Once again, even if it had not been a matter of confidence, we would have voted no, for the reasons we have tried to explain. The imposition of the question of trust clearly strengthens an already solid determination. I say no, and I think this sentence will resonate more and more in the coming weeks in this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u91	We greet and welcome the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education (Medi-Livatino) of San Marco dei Cavoti, in the province of Benevento, who are attending our work. Welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u94	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I believe that this morning, in the illustration of the preliminary constitutionality, Senator Caliendo expressed, in extremely clear terms, the position of the Forza Italia Group. There was no opposition in principle to the measure under consideration, but there was an opposition to the measure as it had been formulated. There was an attempt by Forza Italia - and, I must say the truth, also by other opposition groups - to amend the decree-law without distorting it, but only in order to avoid the possible future aggression in the Constitutional Court. You have bureaucratically rejected the question of constitutionality, but - I have to tell you the truth - I do not know why, because those which have been given do not seem adequate or appropriate to me. There has not been a single word about the fact that Article 1-a has been inserted in the Chamber of Deputies in total unevenness of matter, despite the Constitutional Court, with reference to the so-called Fini-Giovanardi law, had already intervened by rejecting certain norms for unconstitutionality, precisely because they were included in uneven terms with the decree-law. You have not spent a word on Article 7 (7), or on the disproportionate representation that you create within the Executive Board of Administrative Justice. Finally, you paused, reading only what you liked to read, on the long-standing problem of Article 5, or on the extension of the magistrates. To be clear, in order to avoid misunderstandings, I refer to the intervention of Senator D'Ascola, to whom Senator Falanga joined with great enthusiasm, perhaps for an excess of stimulation. I would like to say that the problem we posed and which is clear in terms of data is completely different. The problem is not that 106,000 cases are pending before the Court of Cassation in civil proceedings, but that in this year, in which the first extension has already occurred, there has been an increase in these cases; which clearly shows that the extension as a buffer measure has no structural capacity and is doomed to fail in relation to the objective set, which is the reduction of the slopes. Senator Falanga says that we are destined, for years and years, not to observe the principle of the reasonable duration of the trial because of the slopes in the cassation. Does this mean, then - Undersecretary Migliore, please explain it to me - that for years and years, every year, you will make an extension, because for years and years there will be the situation of the slope? Would it not be more logical to set aside buffer measures and finally intervene with structural measures? The bitter reality of what we are discussing today is yet another failure of government policy, in this case in the area of justice. When in 2014, perhaps rightly, you have brought back from 75 years to 70 years the retirement age of the magistrates, we have told you in all sauces that this initiative of yours, if it had not been accompanied by transitional measures, which would guarantee a certain graduality, would have caused considerable difficulties in the efficiency of the judicial offices. You told us no: hashtag is the good time. From there to a year you made the first extension, but it was a general extension because it concerned all the executive and semi-directive offices of the judiciary; it may have made sense, but from there to another year you have arranged a subsequent extension and the situation has not changed, indeed it has worsened, and instead of repeating the extension of 2015 as had been pointed out in some amendments, I believe both of the 5 Star Movement and of Forza Italia, you have persisted to an absolutely partial extension that concerns only 13 persons of the Court of Cassation. The need for an extension was there, but there was an extension that had as recipients not only 13 people, but the entire section of the judicial management offices. Or do you want to tell us that, thanks to these 13 people, the slope will be completely cut down by one year? Do you realize for yourself that, where you should ever say so, this would be nothing but a boutade? So far, however, there would still be no problem. I was sorry and in some ways also bitter about part of the debate that has developed this morning. The Senators Quagliariello, Giovanardi, Gasparri and Lo Moro (go and read to you the intervention of Senator Lo Moro), perhaps mistaken or guessing - it doesn't matter - they drew conclusions regarding the decree-law in question, with particular reference to the partiality of the intervention, instead of the generality that we all (we of Forza Italia first) wanted. They have basically uttered strong criticism of the high summits of the judiciary, words that would never have been uttered if the measure had been identical to that of a year ago or if it had had a more general content and had not hidden, Undersecretary Migliore, behind the ridiculous screen of a slope. You allowed the prestige of the judiciary to be touched in this House because of your action. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Giovanardi]] You have allowed a good person, a magistrate of great value like John Canzio, to be pointed out to public opinion as the secret agent of this provision. You have also forgotten one important thing, that is, when the legislative legislator must be prudent; in general it certainly is, but even more so it must be with reference to another power of the State, a fundamental power for this country. Order rules are not approved by decree-laws. There are no rules of order attached to a phony explanatory statement, because then the consequence is exactly what we have seen in this House today and of which we will find traces tomorrow in the newspapers. This is in reality the most important crime you have committed and not from a technical point of view (for many years now I have been accustomed to the cynicism with which technical matters are dealt with in this House); yours is a huge political error. This decree-law, which is already referred to in the newspapers as the Canzio law, goes to touch the image of a great magistrate, one of the best magistrates that Italy has had. You see, I could go on, but in reality, I don't want it anymore because it doesn't make sense to go on. Senator Lumia, to an approximation of the truth that distinguishes him, said in his speech today that there was an in-depth debate in the Commission: ten hours. This has been the debate in the Commission, and do you think that in ten - perhaps twelve - hours, we can tackle, deepen, uncover such important issues as those contained in the decree-law? Can we avoid the permanence of the magistrates, the alteration of the presidency council? You have not allowed us to vote, with a raid - I must say the truth - that I cannot even appeal. That is why, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Forza Italia Group will not participate in the vote. You have cooked yourselves and cooked this measure: you vote for it until the end. You will take responsibility for its consequences. You'll have to show your face when the Constitutional Court decapitates him. That's why we won't vote. I'm making the final point, ma'am. I read Senator Lo Moro's surgery. Senator, you have great courage. I agree with everything you have said, but let me say one thing: we do not participate in the vote, which obviously, if ever necessary, makes the outcome of the vote obvious, but I ask you and all those in this House who have doubts and who think like you: do you really want to vote for trust and negotiate it with your conscience? That conscience, Senator Lo Moro, which you stated in very clear terms. I take this opportunity to say that this measure can only pass with confidence, because the Government knows that it would risk heavily on articles, 5, 7 and 10. Have the courage, as you did in making these statements, not to vote for trust. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bignami. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u97	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, it is well known that when we deal with issues relating to the reform of justice, Parliament's path becomes difficult: the confrontation between the majority and the opposition normally derails, we often use arguments - as all colleagues have heard in this House - that do not respect the substance, in this case, of the decree-law. Much has been said about constitutional reform; much has even been said about electoral law; there has been discussion about issues that have no relevance to the regulatory scope described and presented in all articles. In our view, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of justice must continue. It is a difficult path, full of traps, bumpy, characterized by deep divisions, open also to all the exploitations, often also to those that present themselves in the most theatrical forms possible, as we have been able to hear now. Of course, there is also a problem of complexity and delicacy. Well, despite these characteristics, the responsibility to move forward is ours. We are not afraid, at last, in this parliamentary term, of moving towards the reform of justice, of doing so with various measures, ensuring that the whole of Parliament participates in the debate. As the rapporteur and the President of the Commission have well explained, we are not afraid to put all Members, especially the opposition, in the position of participating in the debate and then in the legislative process. That theatricality I referred to at a certain point is betrayed. To say that ten hours of discussion have been devoted to this measure, a decree-law that has been deliberately postponed to Monday this week (because we have been asked a week to table amendments), betrays precisely the style, rigour and seriousness of the critical observations that have been made. No scandal. This measure, ladies and gentlemen, contains a number of points which start from an objective fact which cannot be hidden and which has not been hidden in the debate here. We have, in fact, provided the data. We have given news to Members who did not have it. In recent years, in the sensitive area of the civil process, we have a hundred thousand slopes in cassation. Dear colleagues, you will not be faced with a decree-law that makes the choice, in that case it is reductive, banal and childish, to extend for a year the apical summits of the Cassation to finally close that litigation. You have before you a set of norms that are, also in their speed (a characteristic due to the necessity and urgency of the decree), systemic and design. I want to remind my colleagues quickly. For the first time, after so many years of discussion, we make the choice to use that heritage and that high number of judges of merit employed in the maximary to give a help to bring down this litigation; and it is not done in an improvised way, but respecting the tables of organization of the Court and the requirements of the office of the maximary. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it is possible, with an intervention consistent with the characteristics of the decree, to speed up what is called the discussion in the chamber of the council of civil proceedings, which take place before the simple sections of the Court; and it is also proposed changes to the procedure of the so-called filter in Cassation. Ladies and gentlemen, this measure is consistent with this decree; it is not similar to the case, first mentioned, of the Court's famous judgment rejecting the introduction of the rules on heavy drugs and the recovery of drug addicts. I remember that the decree-law with which that corsair raid was carried out concerned urgent measures to ensure safety and funding for the next winter Olympics. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about urgent measures for the settlement of disputes at the Court of Cassation and for the efficiency of judicial offices and for administrative justice. More homogeneity than this is difficult to find. There is still action to ensure that the provision of training internships at the judicial offices and the General Prosecutor of the Court of Cassation is allowed. In the case of competitions for the ordinary judiciary, action is also taken in order to allow the appropriate candidates to be used. The training activities of the first-appointed magistrates are also reorganised. It then intervenes on the famous successive transformations of the magistrates, changing the permanence from the present three years to a minimum of four years. We intervene on the efficiency of the offices of a particular junction of the justice of our country, those of surveillance. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about a number of articles on administrative justice and, in particular, about the telematic process used in the administrative process. That is why the concentration on Articles 5 and 10, which contains the extension that has made much discussion for the retirement of these apical points, knows a lot about instrumentalization. I would like to remind you that those here who have used in an instrumental way the name of a high office of the Cassation, which we all esteem and respect, cannot then turn the insults and insults towards those who instead, as Government and majority, propose the green light to this decree-law. It is too easy, too unfair; we must learn to respect the high offices of the institutions, not to put them in the game of Parliament's polemics and politics, and when it is done, we must apologize and not release this responsibility to others. Dear colleagues, we are waiting for other important steps in the reform of justice, in the lead the reform of the civil, criminal and many other important aspects that affect the good performance, speed and ability in our country to provide citizens with a modern and advanced service. It is clear that the controversy will accompany us and will always be there. It was easily revealed, through some very serious and well-structured arguments, starting with those of the President, the constitutional value and consistency of the decree-law. Clearly, in the face of complexity, there could be other solutions. We discussed them and they were all legitimate and valid, but, with an instrumental game what do you do? You take one of these valid solutions and you think of using them as clava against others, who have the same legitimacy and who have the same possibility to affect that measure. That is why we set aside the exploitations and tell the government, the majority and the opposition to move forward. Merit will prevail; the season of divisions - yes - bad and related to the ad personam laws are behind us. Let us proceed and move forward because the reform of justice is a duty that belongs to us and then to this duty we appeal and we do not give up. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u98	Since the beginning of the call is fixed at 5.30 p.m., I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.13 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u99	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2550, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 168, 31 August 2016, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Fasiolo is drawn by lot). They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Bubbico, Cassano, Giannini, Mattesini, Zavoli, Valentini, Olivero and Pinotti. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Fasiolo. SAGGESE, secretary, makes the appeal. [[Comments of Senator Giarrusso at the time of the expression of Senator Uras' vote.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, you cannot comment on the vote of the individual senators who pass under the Presidency. (The Senator Secretary takes up the appeal. Senator Uras approaches Senator Jarrusso). Senator Uras, sit in your place! URAS (Mixed). The vote is free, let's be clear! [[Comments of Cardinal and Giarrusso senators. Call the president back. Senator Secretary resumes appeal Reply]] Yes, the senators: Albano, Albertini, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Auricchio Barani, Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Cattaneo, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Compagnone, Conti, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Di Biagio, Di Giacomo, Filippin, Finpincaro, Fincchiaro, Fissore, Esoro, Stefano Fabbari, Falanga, Fasiolo, Fatorini, Favero, Ferrara Elena, Filippin Senators say no: Arrigoni, Augello Bellot, Bignami, Bisinella, Bonfrisco Calderoli, Candiani, Centinario, Comaroli, Compagna, Consiglio, Cotti De Pietro, Divina Giovanardi Munerato Quagliariello Sibilia, Stefani, Stefano Tosato Uras Zin. The senator shall refrain from: Mastrangeli. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) - 17.38 -). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2550, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law n. 168, August 31, 2016, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 184 Senators voting 184 Majority 93 Favorables 159 Contrars 24 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law 168.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u100	Madam President, last night, while I was watching an important transmission of political insight, Minister Padoan was trying to explain how the possible new APE pension advance system works. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u101	Colleagues, allow my colleague to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u102	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Now, as I say, it's an acronym that's been buzzing in our heads for a few months. After Padoan's service, we moved on to the one dedicated to the aspiring new President of the Council, with his fabulous gummy smile. In the meantime, I received a message that struck me, that of a woman who works in Almaviva. Today we have met informally in the Commission, both the data and the trade union side of Almaviva. In yesterday's message this woman spoke to me about the meeting with the MISE, which had not been successful, so she was very worried, because, together with 155 other workers working in Palermo, next Monday she will be transferred to Rende. In the message the woman wrote: we are not an important number, in the end we are only 156, and especially if compared with the 2,600 workers who are sent home by Almaviva in the cities of Naples and Rome, we are only a small part. But in fact you wrote to me that you were very concerned and that you were still afraid of what would happen to you in the future, because these workers do not know if they will keep their jobs. In all cases, this transfer puts them in a very weak position, which could then lead them to have to give up this job too, because it is far from home and the salary is low. Today we met the two sides informally and each said his. I am much more on the side of the union's reasons and the solutions it would propose. Tomorrow there will be another meeting between the parties; I therefore invite you to find a solution that can save goats and cabbages, as we say in Florence: enterprise and workers. It is not correct, in fact, to play on the precariousness of the workers, pulling the rope, when, perhaps, the enterprise can succeed to obtain facilitations from the Government. However, we must respect people, who are the weakest part of the relationship, and find a solution in any case.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u103	We greet a delegation of Egyptian MPs who are attending our work today. Welcome to the Italian Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u104	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-704.ana.u105	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday, October 20, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.23 a.m.
