ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current timetable and the new timetable until 28 July. Today's afternoon session will end at 6.30 p.m. to allow senators to participate in the Jubilee of men and women engaged in institutions. After reading the timetable, final explanations of vote on motions against corruption in procurement will continue and the ratifications of international agreements will begin. In the afternoon session of tomorrow, in addition to the follow-up to the ratifications, the draft law on the limits to the renewal of the mandates of the organs of the CONI will be discussed. The deadline for submitting amendments to the amendments tabled by the rapporteur this morning is 6 p.m. today. Without prejudice to the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council, already scheduled for 11 a.m. on Monday 27 June, next week's timetable provides, from 9.30 a.m. on Tuesday 28, for the possible follow-up of the unfinished topics; the decree-law extends international missions; the draft law on the simplification of the agricultural sector and on the murder of torture; the documents defined by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and the vote on the resignation of Senator Vacciano. The afternoon session on Thursday 30 June will take place with the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. The schedule of the week from 5 to 7 July provides - where concluded by the Commissions - the bill amending the budgets of the Regions and local authorities, for whose final vote is required the absolute majority of the members of the Senate, and the law of European delegation, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. In the week from 12 to 14 July - when concluded by the Commissions - the draft laws approved by the Chamber of Deputies on the market and competition (linked to the public finance maneuver); on publishing; on the drafting of the new budgetary rules of the State; on food waste. The afternoon session on Thursday 14 July will be dedicated to the question time. The week from 19 to 21 July will be devoted to the discussion of draft laws related to the maneuver of public finance on the discipline of cinema and self-employment; as well as the bill on the contrast to the exploitation of work in agriculture, where concluded by the Commissions. In the week from 26 to 28 July, the timetable provides for the decree-law on the transfer of the ILVA, where transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies; the bill on the establishment of a bicameral commission of inquiry on public procurement; the document for the establishment of a single-cameral commission of inquiry on seismic events in Abruzzo; and - where concluded by the Commission - the draft law on citizenship, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The question time will take place in the afternoon session on Thursday 28 July. The calendar can also be integrated with the examination of other draft laws of conversion of decrees-laws to be presented to the Chambers. Finally, the Conference of Leaders decided to identify special sessions, even outside those currently provided for in the timetable, to be devoted to the inspection union. Therefore, for the purpose of planning the work, the Groups are invited to send the Presidency an indication of the issues to be dealt with with with priority.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Article 53 of the Regulation - the following amendments to the programme of the Senate's work for the months of April, May and June 2016: - Drawing of law n. 2344 - Amendments to the law n. 24 December 2012, n. 243, in the matter of balance of the budgets of the regions and local authorities (final vote by absolute majority of the members of the Senate) - Drawing of law n. 2345 - Delegation to the Government for the transposition of European directives and the composition of other acts of the European Union - Law of European delegation and the law of public law concerning the re-definition of the Government by the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 2271 and related - Establishment of the Fund for Plurality and the content of the law of the public delegation of information and the law for the re-definition of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u6	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the timetable for proceedings from 22 June to 28 July 2016: [[Wednesday 22 June pom. h. 16,30-18,30 - Motions on initiatives against corruption in procurement in major public works - Ratifications of international agreements - Drawing of law n. 361 - Limitations of renewal mandates organs CONI Thursday 23 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 23 June pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [[Monday, 27 June ant. h. 11 - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 28 and 29 June 2016 Tuesday 28 June ant. h. 9,30-13 - Eventually followed unconcluded arguments - Drawing of law n. 2389 - Decree-Law n. 67, extension of international missions (Event on July 15) - Drawing of law n. 1328-B - Simplification of the agricultural sector (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (Contributed to the maneuver of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 10-362-388-395-849-874-B - Crime of torture (Approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) - Documents defined by the Board of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys - Voting on the resignations submitted by Senator Vacciano (Vote by secret ballot by electronic procedure) " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Wednesday 29 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 30 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 30 June pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism]] Amendments to draft law No 10-362-388-395-849-874-B (Torture case) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Monday 27 June. [[Tuesday, July 5 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Possible follow-up of unfinished topics - Draft law n. 2344 - Changes in the balance sheets Regions and local authorities (final vote by absolute majority of the members of the Senate) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Draft law n. 2345 - European delegation law (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 6 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 7 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 7 July pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law no. 2344 (Budget changes Regions and local authorities) and 2345 (Law of European Delegation) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, July 12 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Eventually followed unconcluded arguments - Drawing of law n. 2085 - Annual Market and Competition Law (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Linked to the Public Finance Maneuver) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2271 and related - Publishing (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n.... - Provisions concerning the content of the budgetary law (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2290 and connected - Food waste (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 13 " anti. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 14 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 14 July pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law no. 2085 (Yearly Law Market and Competition), 2271 and related (Editorial),... (Provisions concerning the content of the Budget Act) and 2290 and related (Food Laws) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, July 19 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Eventually followed arguments not concluded - Drawing of law n. 2287 and related - Discipline of cinema, audiovisual and entertainment (Linked to the maneuver of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2233 and connected - Self-employment (Linked to the maneuver of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2217 and connected - Contrast exploitation work in agriculture (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 20 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 21 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 21 July pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law no. 2287 and related (Discipline of cinema, audiovisual and entertainment), 2233 and connected (Autonomous work) and 2217 and connected (Contrast exploitation of work in agriculture) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, July 26 pom. h. 16.30-20 - Possible follow-up of topics not concluded - Drawing of law n...... - Decree-Law n. 98, cession ILVA (Ove transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 8 August) - Drawing of law n. 1881 - Institution Commission of inquiry on public procurement - Doc. XXII n. 5 - Institution Commission of inquiry into seismic events in Abruzzo - Drawing of law n. 2092 and related - Provisions on citizenship (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 27 " ant. h. 9.30-13 " " " " pom. h. 16.30-20 Thursday 28 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 28 July pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No.... (Decree-Law No 98, ILVA transfer) will be established in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. Amendments to draft law No 1881 (Institute for the Commission of Inquiry into Public Procurement) and to Doc. XXII, No 5 (Institute Commission of Inquiry into Seismic Events in Abruzzo) must be submitted by 1 p.m. on Thursday 21 July. The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 2092 and related (Citizenship provisions) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. The timetable of the works can be supplemented with the examination of other drafts of law of conversion of decrees-laws to be presented to the Chambers. Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 28 and 29 June 2016 (3 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 2 hours and 30 minutes, of which: PD 34' FI-PdL XVII 17' M5S 16' AP (NCD-UDC) 15' Mixed 14' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 12' AL-A 12' GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 11' LN-Aut 10' COR 10' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2389 (Decree-Law No 67, extension of international missions) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 24' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1328-B (Simplification of the agricultural sector) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 3 hours and 30 minutes, including: PD 47' FI-PdL XVII 24' M5S 22' AP (NCD-UDC) 21' Mixed 19' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 17' AL-A 17' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 15' LN-Aut 14' COR 13' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2345 (Law of European Delegation) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 23' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2085 (annual market law and competition) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 44' AP (NCD-UDC) 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 34' AL-A 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']] Breakdown of times for discussion of draft laws No 2287 and related (Cinema, audiovisual and entertainment) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 44' AP (NCD-UDC) 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 34' AL-A 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2233 and related (Autonomous work) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 44' AP (NCD-UDC) 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 34' AL-A 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 98, ILVA transfer) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 23' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u9	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we appreciate the length of the timetable, which goes until the end of July. As the senators could have understood, most of the measures are included where they have been concluded by the Commissions. You see, Mr President, this leads me to say that there is nothing at this point to prevent the Commission from including the draft law which has already been called for several times for the so-called caregiver, Act No 2128; this is an important draft law, on which the Conference of the Leaders has already been called upon several times. Having a timetable that runs until the end of July, I repeat, providing for the formula 'where concluded by the Commissions' for most of the topics that you have just listed, I believe that this measure can really be included, in order to give a signal of will to the Commission by the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u12	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would also like to call for the timetable for the bill referred to by Senator Candiani, since they are constantly writing to me - I do not know how to call them and define them in Italian - all those people who do not represent a category - this is not a category - but a set of subjects who are personally experiencing this tragedy: without work, they are caring for people in very serious conditions, disabled people, who are unable to make any daily gestures. In addition to the various interests of this House, I call for the latter to be dealt with for a moment, and therefore, when it has been completed in the Commission, the draft law No 2128 is also included in the timetable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It therefore associates itself with Senator Candiani's request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u15	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, we take note of the proposed timetable, but we call for the inclusion and above all for the Presidency's call for two measures which are very close to the 5 Star Movement. The first of all is the Senate Act 1148, relating to the income of citizenship, which is now in the Commission. We call for an immediate reopening of the debate and, if this is not possible, we also consider an acceleration for the House and therefore an immediate timetable for this measure, which we now believe is no longer extendable and absolutely necessary to put a firm point on the dignity of Italian citizens. I would also like to add to this another extremely important measure from our point of view, a draft law which has already been approved by the House of Deputies and which we absolutely must start in the Commission. I'm talking about the 1950 Senate Act, about the class action instrument. I therefore call for this measure to be included in the agenda, and I would urge the other group leaders to be spokesperson for this and also for the Presidency itself. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u18	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, as I said at the Conference of the Leaders, I believe that this timetable is broad but it can be improved, especially in the part relating to the last week of July, which indicates that two measures are being taken in this House to set up two important committees of inquiry decided upon by the relevant Commissions. I am here to reiterate the request, also on behalf of other groups which have filed such draft laws, for the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry into the Italian banking system. We are in the midst of a crisis of savings that affects many territories; in particular, I am here to point out how dramatic the condition of savers in Veneto is, because of the situation that has invested both Veneto Bank and the People's Bank of Vicenza, determining acts and facts that are not only of particular gravity for the economic aspects, but that now indicate a great social problem that has been determined in those territories. Of course, Parliament's activity is not in any way comparable, nor can it replace that of the supervisory authorities, which by law are responsible for protecting savings and defending savers from market degenerations; but in this case perhaps it is not a matter of market degenerations, but rather of actual precise responsibilities, some of a personal nature, of course, others, on the other hand, which we are obliged to know as representatives of citizens so as not to be - compared to such a dramatic problem for the lives of thousands and thousands of savers - only of extras. From this point of view, Parliament has an obligation, especially when it legislates on important issues which then fall on the lives of savers (as was the case with the last decree worked by the Finance Commission). We must protect and defend those who enter the bank from procedures that are not always easy to understand. In this respect - and I conclude, Mr President - I find that all the work of the Finance Committee, which has been examining the hypothesis, through a survey, of the establishment of this Commission, is no less important than others. It is not true that the citizens do not look to the institutions; they may no longer look to Parliament, but to the other institutions, and we must remember that we are here, paid, representing those citizens who expect at least one word of truth from us, as well as an assumption of responsibility. Given a timetable that concludes July in this way, I think it is no longer possible to postpone it, where the process of these measures is concluded by the Commission - I hope very soon - an assessment by the House of what type of Commission, depending on the will expressed in this House both by the majority and by the opposition, to set up on the banking system. Of course, it won't be possible to turn the other side anymore. I would remind all of us and say to you, Mr President, that in the Veneto region this issue is triggering social reactions that we are obliged to know and represent. Next Tuesday evening, at the initiative of Federcontributors and other consumer associations, there will be a torchlight in front of President Zonin's house, because there are personal responsibilities, which must concern us to a certain extent, because they compete with the judiciary, but then there are political responsibilities that we also call into question. I would therefore like to pay particular attention to the call for the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry to be assessed within the summer recess. Otherwise, as others have already pointed out, we will allow the oxen to escape and then perhaps we will notice the damage done. Senator Bonfrisco, since there are more draft laws on this subject, do you refer to the establishment of a bicameral, monocameral or both commission of inquiry? BONFRISCO (CoR). My proposal provides for the establishment of a bicameral Commission, but - as I said at the Conference of the Leaders - I believe that this is almost a detail and a question of goat wool. Let us not be embarrassed that we have turned to the other side, while people are being robbed of their money by the banks. [[Applause from Senators Bernini and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u21	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I am calling for two measures to be included in the timetable: the draft law No 1670 for the guaranteed minimum income, which has been stationary for years, and the bill No 2134, which concerns amendments to the anti-mafia code and the delegation to the Government for the protection of labour in companies seized and confiscated. The reason is soon said. Since we are going to approve the timetable until the end of July and taking into account the fact that the bill No 2134 comes to us from the Chamber of Deputies, where it has already been dealt with, it is important to point out that, among all the confiscated objects, companies are perhaps the most fragile element, because it is something that is alive, something that interacts with the context. The context itself is complex and difficult, also because the Mafia has every interest in showing that, outside of its hands, goods, as well as companies, cannot continue to live. Thus, companies generally start already in difficulty. A regulatory intervention that deals with this issue and takes care of the professional destiny of those who work in those companies is therefore extremely urgent and highly awaited. What I think - but I think we will all agree - we must avoid is that these workers think that by kidnapping or confiscation the State has taken away his job.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u24	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I have heard the list of subjects that we have included on the agenda and it seems to me that, as the last topic, so at the end of July, we planned to schedule the draft law at the first signature of Senator Zanda for the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into Public Procurement. As this is a measure which has been unanimously adopted in the Commission, as I said once in this House, perhaps we could bring it forward to next week, so that the House can approve it, perhaps before the summer break (so that this bicameral Commission finally sees the light). I would therefore ask you to look ahead to it, since this is a measure that takes very little time, because, as I have already said, it has been unanimously adopted by all the groups. I'm asking you to schedule it as soon as possible, maybe next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u27	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, apart from the fact that we do not agree with the Commission's wording of many measures (you know very well that there are requests now several times and from several groups, and I believe that this is a reason which should at this point make it possible for them to come to this House a lot more than those on schedule - I will not even go too far in asking which ones - or important motions - I believe that I have to intervene on the method of inspection of trade union acts. For our part, in fact, we do not share the idea that the Groups should report the more or less urgent, important and important acts of union, because we believe that when every parliamentarians lodges an urgent act of inspection union, they do so asking to have answers in a short time and appropriate to be able to bring to the outside the answers that are due to us for our mandate, for our parliamentary activity. I therefore call for all acts of inspection union not to differ from reports, but to be taken into account - by devoting ad hoc sessions to them, as you said, Mr President - so that the answers that all of us Members of Parliament have long been waiting for may arrive.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u30	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to ask for confirmation. We are now making a proposal to amend the timetable which is to be voted on in this House. That is why I would like to try to convince and thus make clear the goodness of some of the proposals and that it would be appropriate to examine them immediately. In recent local elections, which should be local, it has actually been seen that the Democratic Party (unfortunately for them, but very well for the country), which is said to belong to the Italian left, is precisely to decline, to collapse. I would therefore like to throw a love at the Democratic Party to finally give it the opportunity to do something left. Along with the majority (because these proposals need to be voted on) I would therefore propose that the bill on citizenship income, i.e. the Senate Act 1148, be drawn up immediately. After that, I would like to make a proposal to give a strong message to citizenship and to allow the PD to remove the stain that today has as a political force that helps banks and not citizens. At this point I think of the failure of the shipping company Deiulemar SpA, which has sent many families to the street (for now there are 13,000, but probably many more). In this case, we call for the timetable for the Senate Act 1477, which proposes to set up a Commission of Inquiry into this failure. There is also a measure which appears to be marginal, but which actually has a very important social influence. I refer to the Senate Act 1597, which lays down provisions on civil liability for cars. There is, in fact, a slice of the country that pays an insurance premium in an exponential way compared to another part of the citizenship and it has always been said that this must pay more because there are more frauds. In fact, given by hand, we have seen that it is not true that in certain parts of the country there are more frauds, also because according to the data of the Institute for the supervision of insurance (so not of the 5 Star Movement), out of 2.8 million claims per year, the complaints for fraud are only 4,000. So it is not true that in certain parts of the country you pay a higher insurance premium because there are more frauds. So let's stop saying this huge dance and let's just tell the truth. Mr President, I would dare to say one thing: there have actually been political forces conniving with the insurance and banking system to date, with the result that when these insurance companies applied an exponentially increased RC car prize on certain territories, everyone was silent. I call this connivance. Mr President, we must ensure that honest citizens do not have to pay for the dishonesty of others and, therefore, it is essential to include the examination of the Senate Act 1597 in the agenda for next week. I would therefore like this matter to be dealt with immediately. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u33	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for a simple shift in time. According to the timetable for the work of which we have just read, the end of today's sitting is anticipated at 6.30 p.m. to allow - as it is said - the participation of the senators in the Jubilee ceremony. However, we all know that this is not true: the real reason is that there is the football match of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] The advance is due to this. I am sure that if we asked most senators who went to the Jubilee ceremony and who saw the game, the overwhelming majority would be for the second hypothesis. My request is therefore to bring the end of today's sitting back to 8 p.m. and not to anticipate it in order to allow those who live far away, in other cities, to be able to arrive in time to see the game. Since there are many Italians who have to work and at that time they will not be able to afford to come home in time to watch the game, it is only right that it is the same for us.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u34	Senator Cotti, I don't want to contradict you, but the commitment we talked about starts at 7 p.m., while the game starts at 9 p.m. (so well after 8 p.m.). Your request is therefore not justified. However, it will be put to the vote. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] If you will allow me, however, I will inform you all about the precise timetables.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u37	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, it has already been pointed out that many draft laws are to be examined in the long timetable for July when they are concluded in the Commission. I would like to stress the Senate Act 1307, which states: "Provisions on the identification of members of the law enforcement agencies carrying out public order activities" which has been in the Commission for more than a year and to which 15 amendments have been tabled. It would therefore be a very quick examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u40	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, the bill indicated by Senator Scibona and also other draft laws that we usually ask to include in the calendar would fall within the framework of an agreement and respect for the Rules of Procedure of the Senate on the basis of which it is expected that every two months, a draft law, a proposal of oppositions can be discussed in the Assembly. This is something we talked about a long time ago, along with the income of citizenship. I would remind you that my colleagues in the SEL Group asked, within the framework of these draft laws, to discuss the same measure that Senator Scibona has now indicated. At present, the only bill that has had this examination, proposed in accordance with Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, is that presented by Senator Maurizio Romani in the matter of denial. I think it is right that, sooner or later, these demands should be met. This is a commitment we made together at the Conference of Leaders a long time ago, in 2014. It seems to me that the time is ripe.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u41	Senator Airola, I am to point out that the norm refers to acts presented by the Opposition Groups and not just draft laws, thus including motions and other acts. The President of his parliamentary group himself has acknowledged that acts of opposition have also been included in the timetable for the work of which we have been reading. If there are no other requests, I shall put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly, to include the discussion of further draft legislation. Since some senators have raised their hands several times, I have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to include the discussion of the draft law setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the banking system. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to bring forward the discussion of the draft law setting up a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Public Works. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to restore the conclusion of today's sitting at 8 p.m. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u42	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00293 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators, 1-00584, tabled by Senator Filippi and other senators, 1-00585, presented by Senator Crosio and other senators, 1-00588, presented by Senator Uras and other senators, 1-00596, presented by Senator Barani and other senators, and 1-00599, presented by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, on initiatives against corruption in procurement in major public works.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u45	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Nencini, who has expressed his support for our motion and the seven commitments contained in it. The Government has therefore committed itself, in compliance with what is planned and planned by the Document of Economics and Finance for 2016, to carry out all the initiatives aimed at promoting the complete work of MOSE by the end of December 2018 - it seems to us that this is an important commitment - by allocating the remaining financial resources necessary for the totality of this important work of safeguarding Venice and its lagoon. The Government has also undertaken - and we thank him for this - also to bind the Consorzio Venezia new, although in the phase of commissioner management both for the activity still to be carried out in order to complete the works and for the subsequent management, with the passage to other subject. According to the third point of the device of this motion, the Government has undertaken, in view of the completion of the works and the full functionality of the work, to foresee all the measures aimed at separating the phase of realization and experience of the new Venice Consortium from that of the subsequent management of the work - it seems to us that this is very important - identifying a solution of government for the future of this important infrastructure and of the city of Venice. The fourth point commits the Government to counter, with every measure deemed necessary, the phenomenon of corruption, fraud and illegals, in all sectors of the economy and within the public administrations, in the companies participated and controlled, promoting the adoption of preventive measures of corruption and above all by slimming down the bureaucracy that is, of course, source of bad business. With the fifth point, the Government is committed to promoting the strengthening of the collaboration between the DAC and the judicial authority, in order to make more effective the measures aimed at preventing and combating corruption in the public administration, to strengthen the action of administrative supervision in the matter of the custody and execution of public contracts, as well as to allow the prosecutors of the Republic timely access to the information acquired administratively. With the penultimate point, which has been accepted, the Government has undertaken to promote, in relation to the realization of public infrastructures and events, the constant use of protocols that favor the adoption of models of institutional cooperation and supervision of public contracts, aimed at maximizing the transparency, correctness and effectiveness of the preparations, as well as the monitoring and supervision of the procurement procedures, the exchange of information and the control in the realization of the works, also from the point of view of the quality of the works. It is important, in fact, also the quality of the works carried out and not only their cost-effectiveness. The last important commitment is to equip the public administrations with the appropriate professional resources to address the problems of interlocation with the designers of the works and to exercise control over the work. We know, in fact, that professionalism, human resources, in public administrations are a problem, because they are not always up to date and up to the level, while we, instead, need professionals adequately and professionally ready for any intercourse. The commitment is therefore to find figures also outside the public administrations, if they are not present in them also for a question of transparency and coming to meet the new code of contracts that 8a The Commission, chaired by Senator Matteoli, approved a few weeks ago, precisely to combat the illicit procurement with DAC. With the new procurement code, perhaps we will finally be able to move on. (17.12 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u48	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we strongly support the motion of Senator Cappelletti, which we have signed, because the issue of legality in public procurement is a fundamental issue, which must question all political forces, and also because undeniable are the responsibilities of this Government in the tentacular system of corruption in Italy: from Salerno-Reggio Calabria to Expo, from high speed to highways, with known names that we have always denounced, such as the president of SAT, Antonio Bargone, involved in a clear conflict of interest, also reported by the European Community itself; or even worse as Incalza, Arab phoenix exhumed by every governmental group; like Stefano Perotti, director of the works of Metro C of Rome. The MOSE, among the most expensive of our large works (about 5 and a half billion euros), is unfortunately a major part of the vermin of public procurement, in which the various investigations have highlighted multi-annual illegality. Unfortunately, in that system of mobile dams, created for the protection of the lagoon of Venice, over the decades a large flow of public money has evidently passed through, but it has not produced any usefulness, if we consider that the Ministry of the Environment already in 1988 expressed a negative judgment regarding the environmental compatibility of the work, which has never followed any further favorable evaluation. Meanwhile, between delays in the presentation of the definitive project and rising costs, as has often happened in this country, in the links of lawlessness have been entangled not only the controlled subjects, but also those in charge of controls: in fact, the system of supervision exercised by the public administrations, including the ministerial structures, has been shown to be seriously lacking. The more complex and cumbersome planning, the greater the number of corrupt administrators, entrepreneurs and politicians, some of whom even perceived a sort of position annuity. Also this time we are faced with yet another infinite yard, realized in total impermeability regarding the protests of the territories, the associations and the citizens. If anyone had simply taken into account popular petitions, or the opinion of independent bodies that launched unheard of alarms - such as, for example, the dynamic instability of the lifting gates of the MOSE - we would not have written new pages of the endless history of corruption in Italy, favored also by the special legislation of the great works, on whose criticalities we of the Italian Left and SEL have always intervened. I myself, during the debate on the Economic and Financial Document, compared to the annex infrastructure and transport and to the twenty-five strategic, useless, pharaonic works, always the same, I denounced its ineffectiveness and anachronism. Is it possible, however, that investigations will be necessary to carry out extraordinary checks in order to ask for consistency between expenditure and work carried out? Why did the wave of arrests of June 2014 take place against the corruptive system? I talked about MOSE, but I could have mentioned Expo, like Salerno-Reggio Calabria. I do not hide that, compared to the shipyards of the future, which await the country as a challenge, we are concerned, despite the assurances from the current minister Delrio (named after the resignation of his predecessor Lupi), who recently admitted the disaster of public works. Everyone, even in the light of the new code of procurement and the powers conferred to the National Anti-corruption Authority, in the person of President Raffaele Cantone, we trust in a new era for public works, stubborn in the utopia of ending the many Incalza systems that have damaged the country. We hope for a change of pace in order to avoid the mistakes of the past and to permanently archive the objective law (defined criminogenic from the same President of the DAC), concentrated in the implementation of the planned works in correct way, starting from those yards that still do not require interventions on the damages. It is precisely in order to give a strong signal that, for the existing yards like the MOSE, we must engage the Government on a plurality of aspects: to activate international tendering procedures; to heal issues related to concessions and contracts of design, realization and maintenance; to strengthen controls; to restore ordinary legislation for strategic works, together with procedures of environmental impact assessment; to take into account the opinions of the institutions and local communities; to carry out independent technical checks on the cost-benefit effectiveness; to identify and penalize the corrupt subjects; to recover resources taken away from the community, also through - as I repeat for a long time - focused focus on the whole body of public works, with particular reference to the works considered strategic, in a general revision of the regulatory framework. It is no longer tolerable - for example - by a Government that reaffirms its vocation to modernisation, to re-propose its administration, which by its nature escapes procedures and controls and proposes the perverse mechanism of the big business that has produced the degeneration of the last twenty-five years. We therefore vote in favour of this motion, confident in the alternative, always possible, of works that respond to economic stability, to absolute environmental sustainability and to the demand for the sharing and transparency of committees, associations and territories that we must involve in the fight against corruption. I also declare our Group's support for the motion that sees Senator Luciano Uras as the first signatory, who rightly focuses attention, above all but not only, on the importance of preventive controls on the acts of local authorities, on the legitimacy of local authorities, on the goodness of the procedures adopted. The government must commit itself to this, by re-introduced an effective and transparent system of preventive control and report to Parliament, even after October, to the Senate and the House, all the initiatives it intends to take to combat the phenomenon of corruption. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u51	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, it is not a question of stopping an already 85% work. We never asked, and we never even wrote it. As has been mentioned in this House, the MOSE will not go down in history because it has been a great work and a challenge of engineering, but because it has been a great manger. And since there are still serious doubts about its functionality and safety, I think it's right to ask what we can do now. As has already been said, a lot of money has been spent, but much more is likely to have to spend, continuing to make the wrong choices. President, Senator Filippi spoke of an increase in MOSE costs of only 20% and a question linked to a past season. It may be true, but it's all money gone into bribes. That's why you lost the election, by the way. Returning to the starting point, that is, to what can be done, we should first of all ask ourselves whether the work works. Mr. Deputy Minister, it is legitimate to doubt that it was simply made possible by the intervention of a large number of criminals. Without a scientific and technical assessment made by an independent international commission, you assume, as a majority and Government, all responsibilities related to its possible malfunctions. I think it is a mistake for the Deputy Minister to exclude this possibility, also in the light of the recent CNR study, already mentioned, which indicates a further critical element in the project. I'm referring to the sinking of the lagoon. But the Government also gave an opinion against paragraph 4 of the operative part of motion 293 (text 3), which calls for efforts to launch an international tender for service and maintenance facilities. The opinion is incomprehensible. The government may have in mind - we have seen it with some motorway concessions - to proceed with the use of the European Code of Procurement and Standards, in order to proceed once again avoiding public races. In this case, the damage would follow also the mockery and the bribes for the construction of the MOSE will follow also those for its maintenance. I also note that the Government does not intend to initiate a process of revision of the legislation on project finance. I understand that this is partly justified, because this is something that has already been the subject of recent changes. However, it continues to be abused. The government doesn't even think about putting their hands on conflict-of-interest legislation. It is true that on the agenda of the Senate there is a bill with similar object, but it is also true that the acceptance of a point of this motion would commit the Government to express itself that there are companies living in public procurement and that they heavily finance politics or, better, the sickest part of politics. It is good that these companies do so in order to continue to live as a result of the decisions taken by the policy itself that go forage, thus creating a deadly short circuit. Well, on this very limited point I would have wished for a commitment that did not come, for the simple reason that the Government and the majority cannot remain without this funding at the limit of the licit. You can't give it up. At least say it clearly, that it is understandable to everyone, starting with those who are supposed to send you home in the next election. Make it clear that you are opposed to banning contributions to parties by companies that live on public money and therefore depend on politics. In conclusion, I declare that the vote of the 5 Star Movement Group will be in favour of both motion 293 (text 3), at my first signature, and motion 588, at the first signature of Senator Uras. As far as motions for resolutions are concerned, no. 584 (text 2), presented by the Democratic Party Group, at the first signature of Senator Filippi, and 585, presented by the Group of the North League, we do not agree with some of the premises. I refer in particular to a statement that I summarize: the rising costs of carrying out the work (MOSE) refer to the problems encountered and the complexity of the works. Gentlemen, the costs have unfortunately risen due to corruption. To claim the opposite, as well as to deny the evidence, is also offensive to the many citizens that those costs will be charged. However, even if we do not agree with some premises and stigmatize the so-called minimalist profile of the various motions presented, we basically agree with the part relating to commitments. Therefore, Mr President, for all the motions, with the exception of the one I signed and that of Senator Uras' first signature, we ask for a split vote and, therefore, for the possibility of voting separately on premises and commitments: then two votes on each motion. Only and exclusively for the first-signed motion of the undersigned, in view of the acceptance by the Government of point 7, I request the separate vote of the individual commitments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cappelletti, for greater clarity: on all motions do you ask for the vote for separate parts of the premises and the disposition part? Mr Capelletti (M5S). Yes, Mr President, with the exception of my motion, for which I request a commitment vote, and of the first-signed motion by Senator Uras, which, as far as I am concerned, can be voted in its entirety. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Then we will see whether the House agrees with your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u54	GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group has not tabled a specific motion on this matter, although it is extremely important. It is important the work that has been or is being carried out in Italy, it is important Venice and it is important the lagoon that, together with Venice, becomes UNESCO's heritage. It is also important - in our opinion - for the work to be completed. Imagine today stopping the work to look at everything that has happened, going back in time, it appears a madness or maybe this should be declined for everything that happens in Italy, that is, when you are about to finish a work you stop and you go back. It is therefore necessary to respect the chronoprogram of the work and complete it for 2018. At the same time, I would stress that the work done in the 8th Commission with the Government, for a year now, on the new procurement code - I am addressing Vice-Minister Nencini here - is in this direction. The fact that the new procurement code expressly provides that new works or variants to them can no longer be carried out with the ease of a time; that the objective law belongs to the past; that the DAC is assigned a function not only of supervision, but also sanctioning (this aspect is taken up in several points in the various motions presented); that a necessary collaboration between the DAC itself, in the phase of control, prevention and supervision before, and sanctioning during and after, and the judiciary that must certainly exercise its role; as well as the tightening of the rules concerning crimes against the public administration, the peculate and all that is connected to corruption and that has seen the light last year, say a lot about what must be the commitment of Parliament, the Government and all the institutions so that the work is certainly finished in legality. In this sense Forza Italia will give its support in the vote to all the motions that have been presented. With regard, however, to the motion submitted by Senator Cappelletti, critical of the work in question, in the event that the requested deletion was accepted, Forza Italia would give its vote in favour of point 7 of the motion itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u57	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, colleagues and fellow senators, Senator Filippi, in convincingly illustrating the PD motion, and Mr Casson himself, albeit in different tones, have highlighted the serious problems and the criticalities relating to the work, problems that I do not minimize, I do not neglect and on which I will return, problems also relating to investigations that have seriously clouded the overall image of Operation MOSE. Nevertheless, if I were to give an effective title to this short speech of mine, I would still choose the double beauty, because we are faced with two beautiful things: Venice, of which I will not say, being every superfluous and ineffective word to describe it, and an engineering work in the etymological sense of the term, a work of ingenuity. Much more authoritative personalities than I have called it the most beautiful hydraulic engineering work in the world. Unfortunately, we can get all things dirty. I regret that, because of certain human behaviors currently under serious investigation, we find it hard to boast of very valuable Italian engineering works, of which we should be proud. Patriotism - sweet patriotism would say someone - is also this. How much better, even from the economic point of view, our country if we were aware of it and if we were a little more proud of ourselves or at least - I would content myself - a little less self-harm. Seneca said that often, in judging, we let ourselves be drawn more by opinion than by the true substance of things. I'll try to stick to it. The whole of the interventions that we are talking about comes from three objectives: defense from the high waters, defense from the tides and erosion of the coasts, defense and restoration of the environment. Therefore, it is not only a matter of avoiding catastrophic and flagship events such as that of 4 November 1996, exceptional but statistically repeatable, when Venice, Chioggia, the urban centers of the coast and the islands were completely overwhelmed, but also of overcoming the frequent inconveniences - we only had proof last week - to save the entire lagoon from degradation and safeguard the beauty of Venice. It is an Italian mission, but not only for Italy, because the protection and protection of Venice and its lagoon is not only a problem of pre-eminent national interest, as the Parliament established with special law No 171 of 1973, but a global objective which is being looked at from all over the world. The primary aim of the project is to separate the lagoon from the sea when the event of high water is planned and, with hydraulic engineering interventions as simple as conception as complex in the realization, it is possible to achieve the result through four mobile barriers, realized with 78 gates that compose them, wind gates, the thrust of the waterline, which come into operation for tides exceeding 110 cm. The system makes tides up to three meters sustainable and I remember that, at the negative peak event I referred to, the tide was 1.94 meters. At the same time - and I would like to mention this too - measures have been taken to protect the seashores, to strengthen the coasts, to protect the environment of the ecosystem, to secure the landfills and industrial canals of Porto Marghera and to restore characteristic habitats. I quote a few numbers: 1,600 hectares of rebuilt barriers, 49 kilometers of new and protected beaches, 100 kilometers of raised banks, 40 kilometers of industrial canals secured, phytopuration interventions. This is, as a whole, the most important environmental protection and ecosystem system in the world. Let's start here. This obviously does not induce the Democratic Party and its senators - as has been noted by listening well to the interventions of Senator Filippi, in particular, and Casson himself - to neglect the degenerative phenomena on which the judiciary is highlighting and which often, unfortunately, accompany the realization of great public works in our country, to all latitudes - colleagues - to the North, the Centre and the South. Also - and not only - in order to cope with such emergencies we have approved, in this legislature, the new code on the contracts - the vice minister Nencini knows well, that it has followed the iter - and the relative legislative decree implementing no. 50 of 2016. Only yesterday we spoke about this in the Commission with the President of the HANAC Cantone, who was also frankly amazed by the recent statements by very high representatives of the judiciary. We have approved in this legislature Law No. 69 of 2015. We are working these hours on the reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in particular with the aim of extending the limitation period for such offences. In the motion of the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, reference is still made to - I read verbatim - "criticism of the legislation in force in the matter of major strategic works". We in the Democratic Party are in agreement, and we are in agreement that this legislation has changed it: the new law completely exceeds the objective law and we thought you had noticed it, considering also the important contribution - I have no difficulty in recognizing it - given by the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement in the Commission public works. The device of our motion is very clear: we fight the corruption connected to the realization of the great works, but we do not give up on them, the pride that must derive from it for the country. My colleague, Mr Filippi, mentioned how, in medium-long times, we can also reopen the reasoning on the bridge over the Strait, as the President of the Council recently said, because a great country must have great ambitions and a political generation should have the aspiration to leave a sign of itself to the subsequent ones. That is why the motion is very clear: we ask for the completion of the work by December 31, 2018; we ask to bind the Consorzio Venezia new to the new code; we ask to identify a different model for the subsequent management, which totally exceeds the Consorzio Venezia new; we ask to oppose in all possible ways the corruptive phenomena and to strengthen the maximum role and supervisory functions of the DAC, considering that the Consorzio Venezia new has been placed in extraordinary administration since December 1, 2014. I shall conclude, Mr President. Goethe, on his eighteenth-century trip to Italy, wrote about Venice: "All that surrounds me is full of nobility, it is the grandiose and venerable work of human forces gathered together, it is a majestic monument, not of a prince, but of all a people." Here: a united human force. How important it would be for us to be, too! [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u58	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. Colleagues, Senator Cappelletti made a request for a split vote on motions, with the exception of No 588. Not making any comments, so it remains established. We shall now proceed to the separate vote on motion 293 (text 3). We will first vote on the premises and then on the individual points of the device. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 293 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of item 1) of motion 293 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of item 2 of the motion No 293 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraph 3 of motion 293 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraph 4 of motion 293 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of point 5 of the motion No 293 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraph 6 of motion 293 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of item 7 of motion 293 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraph 8 of motion 293 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of item 9) of motion 293 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of item 10) of motion 293 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of item 11) of motion 293 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the separate vote on motion No 584 (text 2). We will vote on the premises first and then on the device. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 584 (text 2), tabled by Senator Filippi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 584 (text 2), tabled by Senator Filippi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the separate vote on motion No 585. We will vote on the premises first and then on the device. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion No. 585, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Crosio and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion No. 585. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 588. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Uras and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion No. 588. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the separate vote on motion No 596. We will vote on the premises first and then on the device. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 596, tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Barani and other senators to make a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 596. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the separate vote on motion No 599 (text 2). We will vote on the premises first and then on the device. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion No 599 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 599 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u59	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2223, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 1662. The rapporteurs, Senators Pegorer, acting rapporteur, and the Judge, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the acting rapporteur, Senator Pegorer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u60	, f. f. Mr President, the draft law before us, which has already been adopted by the House, contains: 'Rules for combating terrorism', including through the ratification and implementation of a number of international instruments in this area. There is no need to stress, in the difficult historical moment we are experiencing, the importance of this measure, as well as any instrument that favours multilateral cooperation in the fight against terrorism. (17.47) (PEGORER, f. f. rapporteur). I would point out to the Foreign Affairs Committee that the first two articles of the draft law provide for the approval of ratification and the order of implementation of the international treaties referred to. Article 3 also provides a definition of certain terms used, clarifying the meanings of, for example, radioactive matter, nuclear materials, enriched uranium and so on. Article 9, as amended by the Chamber of Deputies, identifies the structures which, in our order, are called upon to fulfil certain roles identified by the international treaties. The financial intelligence authority provided for in Article 12 of the Council of Europe Convention on Recycling shall be identified in the Financial Information Unit established by Legislative Decree No 231 of 2007. The central authority provided for in Article 33 of the same Convention is identified in the Ministry of Economy and Finance, while the contact point responsible for transmitting and receiving information, under the Council of Europe Convention for the Prevention of Terrorism, is the Ministry of the Interior, Department of Public Security. Finally, Article 10 of the draft law lays down the clause of financial invariance. I now give some indication, Madam President, of the international treaties that have been ratified. The Warsaw Convention was signed in 2005 at the Council of Europe to promote Member States' efforts to prevent terrorism. In particular, the Treaty defines as criminal acts acts which may lead to the commission of acts of terrorism (such as public incitement, recruitment and training) and strengthens cooperation in the field of prevention both at the level of the internal systems (through national prevention policies) and at the level of international legislation (through the modification of extradition agreements and mutual legal assistance). In addition, Articles 18 to 21 concerning the application of the obligation of the State, on whose territory a terrorist suspect is located, to extradite him to the requesting State or to prosecute him. The second Convention to be ratified is on the abolition of acts of nuclear terrorism, adopted in New York in 2005, by a resolution of the UN General Assembly. The Convention, signed by 115 countries, 104 of which have already ratified, identifies certain criminal offences, such as the possession of radioactive materials, the manufacture of devices and the damage of installation. The third instrument in our examination is the Protocol of Amendment to the European Convention for the Suppression of Terrorism, which was made in Strasbourg on 15 May 2003. The text includes on the list of offences all those included in the various UN treaties and protocols on the subject. A simplified amendment procedure to the Convention is also introduced, allowing the list of offences to be further expanded and allowing the accession of the Council of Europe observer States. The Protocol also includes a clause authorising refusal to extradite to a country where there is a risk of the application of the death penalty or the risk of suffering torture or life imprisonment without the possibility of temporary freedom. Finally, a monitoring mechanism, the Conference of Contracting States Against Terrorism (COSTER), is established to verify the implementation of the Convention, which complements the more general competences of the European Committee on Crime Problems. The fourth agreement is the Council of Europe Convention on money laundering, confiscation of proceeds of crime and terrorist financing, signed in Warsaw in 2005. The agreement updates and extends the provisions of the 1990 Convention, including, in addition to the forms of financing through money laundering, those carried out through lawful activities. Finally, I note the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention for the Prevention of Terrorism, done in Riga in October 2015. The Protocol qualifies as criminal offences a number of acts, including intentional participation in a terrorist group, participation in training activities, travel abroad for terrorist purposes and the financing or organisation of such travel. It also provides for a network of national contact points for a rapid exchange of information between the partner countries. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Lo Giudice.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to supplement the oral report by dealing with Articles 4 to 8, which are those of the Commission's most specific competence. Article 4 introduces amendments to the Penal Code. More in detail, paragraph 1 (a) includes, among the crimes against the international personality of the State, two new cases: the crime of financing conduct for purposes of terrorism (Article 270-d.l) and the offence of subtraction of goods or money subject to seizure (Article 270-d.2). The first paragraph of Article 270-d.1, punishes with imprisonment from seven to fifteen years anyone who collects, distributes or makes available goods or money, in any way realized, destined - in whole or in part - to the fulfilment of acts with a terrorist purpose. The criminal case is applied outside the case of association for terrorism purposes already provided for in Article 270- bis of the Criminal Code and the organisation of transfers for terrorism purposes pursuant to Article 270-c.1 and regardless of the actual use of the funds raised. The second paragraph of the new code provision punishes with the penalty of imprisonment from five to ten years anyone who deposits or stores the goods or money intended for the execution of acts with terrorist purposes. Article 270-d.2 sanctions with a prison sentence of two to six years and a fine of 3,000 to 15,000 euros, anyone who subtracts, destroys, disperses, suppresses or deteriorates assets or money seized to prevent the financing of international terrorism. Point (b) of paragraph 1 of Article 4 inserts in the penal code Article 270-f, with which it is made mandatory, in case of conviction or plea for one of the crimes for the purposes of terrorism provided for by the code, the confiscation of the things that served or were destined to commit the crime and of the things that constitute its price, product or profit. If the confiscation of such property is not possible, the provision authorizes the confiscation by equivalent, i.e. the confiscation of other assets of which the deed has availability, for a value corresponding to that price, product or profit. Confiscation may not affect property belonging to third parties outside the crime. Paragraph 1 (c) includes among the crimes against the internal personality of the State the new criminal case of acts of nuclear terrorism (Article 280-b). The provision, in the first paragraph, punishes, by imprisonment from six to twelve years, anyone with a purpose of terrorism procures to himself or to other radioactive matter or creates a nuclear device or otherwise comes into possession of it. The article then punishes with imprisonment not less than fifteen years anyone, for the same purposes, uses radioactive matter or a nuclear device or uses or damages a nuclear plant, in order to release or with the concrete danger that it releases radioactive matter (second paragraph). The third paragraph punishes with the same penalties similar conducts with regard to chemical or biological materials or aggressives. Article 5 amends the letter a) of paragraph 2 of Article 8 of the decree-law anti-terrorism of 2015. This provision stipulates that the personnel of the Internal and External Information and Security Services, like the judicial police, are authorised to conduct as a criminal offence, including in relation to a specific series of crimes for the purpose of terrorism, operating against them the special cause of non-perpetuality referred to in Article 17 of Law No 124 of 3 August 2007. The draft law includes among the offences of terrorism referred to in the provision also the new crime of financing conduct for purposes of terrorism (Article 270-d). Article 6 identifies in the Ministry of Justice the contact point, for the purposes of the 2005 New York Convention, for the suppression of acts of terrorism. The following paragraphs shall contain a series of information obligations in the public prosecutor's office with regard to criminal proceedings for the murder of acts of nuclear terrorism, as referred to in Article 280-b of the Criminal Code. In relation to such proceedings, the prosecutor must inform the Minister of Justice of the prosecution and the execution of a protective custody measure, attaching a copy of the order. In addition, the judicial authority is required to communicate the final outcome of the proceedings, while, in turn, the Minister of Justice must communicate the prosecution, the outcome of the proceedings and the adoption of the precautionary measure to the States Party to the Convention, through the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The location and conservation of seized assets shall also be communicated to the Director-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Article 7 regulates the fate of radioactive materials, nuclear installations or nuclear devices seized in the context of criminal proceedings for acts of nuclear terrorism, providing that the judicial authority should inform the prefect and the Ministry of Justice of the seizure. The prefect, in turn, informed the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, and the Minister for Health, in addition to the Department of Civil Protection of the Presidency of the Council, must adopt, in the opinion of ISIN, the necessary measures for the safety of radioactive materials. In cases where radioactive materials are to be returned to a State party to the aforementioned New York Convention, the Minister for Economic Development shall provide it in consultation with the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Justice and the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea. Finally, Article 8 introduces into Legislative Decree No 230 of 17 March 1995 implementing a series of Euratom directives on nuclear safety, Article 156- bis, which refers to a decree of the Minister for Economic Development, in agreement with the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, after the opinion of ISIN, the identification of a list of radioactive substances and the methods of their management and use, on the basis of the recommendations of the International Energy Agency. The ministerial decree must be issued within one hundred and eighty days of the entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u62	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u63	Madam President, Italy, like other democratic countries, is also called to respond forcefully and, above all, intelligently to the threat of international terrorism, which is increasingly aggressive and ruthless. It is a different terrorism from that known over the years. In the past century (which historians call short because of the large amount of war and social events and for discoveries, innovations and changes) terrorism originated from conflict and conflict within a country or between neighbouring countries and has produced thousands of victims, directing every action to a misconceived aspiration to freedom. Italy, in particular during the seventies and eighties, had to face the terrorist groups called Red Brigades, First Line, New Order and the Revolutionary Armed Nuclei (NAR), who carried out massacres and hit common people: magistrates, politicians, journalists, men of the Forces of the Order and trade unionists. It is a terrorism that institutions and an entire community, cohesive and courageous have been able to defeat through unspeakable sacrifices, but with an irreducible and unshakable faith in the values of institutions and civil coexistence. But today we are faced with a new terrorism, a completely different and asymmetric terrorism, as I call it by international experts and scholars. Some have argued that terrorism is not an ideology, but a way of fighting. In reality, this terrorism embodies a totalitarian ideology, which intends to annihilate individuality in all its forms and aspects, individual and collective rights, individual and collective freedoms, our way of life and the social and customary achievements of civil communities. Our societies are open and the terrorists want to close them, make them sealed and make them live in terror and fear, force them to take unthinkable and invasive measures, distorting the lives of entire communities. Madam President, I do not want to talk about international issues and I confine myself to considerations that concern our country, even in a plural context that involves other nations, and I immediately ask myself a question: is it possible to combat this terrorism by avoiding using its own aims, that is, by fighting a misconceived war of civilizations, only to gain benefits linked exclusively to the interests of its own part and, even, in other cases, only to increase its consent? I believe that only the strength of the institutions, the cohesion and the soul of our communities are able to finally stem and eradicate this terrible phenomenon and only to affirm the ideals of freedom and civilization that affect all of us, because it is on these values that we base the concreteness of our society. It is not only a battle fought on the warfields, therefore, but also and above all a great and irreducible cultural battle. In this context, I strongly agree with those who claim that, even more serious than terrorism, fundamentalism is a dramatic and explosive element, which tries to creep into our countries and our citizens' communities. This is the reason for an answer, not only military, but also intelligent to this terrorism, which must be studied, understood, understood and deepened in its raison d'être, because this new and terrible phenomenon, which avoids the traditional confrontation in the open field, uses above all a weapon: it spreads fear, anxiety and terror in our societies and we must avoid falling into the trap of making choices motivated by irrational and dangerous feelings, preparing the wrong answers. I believe that, in this sense, the memory of what happened after the attacks in 2001 in New York can advise us for the best. Today we have to confront the global level of the terrorist threat, represented by the Daesh, which requires the adoption of a unified international collaboration strategy, which brings together all the various measures necessary to counter the expansionist aims of this organization, which has been undervalued for too long. In order to combat this phenomenon, it is necessary to have men, resources, tools able to face it and, in this regard, we feel a strong sense of gratitude that Italy as a whole has for women and for men engaged in security, intelligence and every activity related to the security of the country, to which our strong and sincere thanks go. In contrast, in terms of measures, rules and appropriate instruments to combat this new scourge, the draft law now before the House is inserted: a text which sets out rules for combating terrorism, as well as the ratification of certain conventions. In particular, the measure provides for the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention for the Prevention of Terrorism, with the aim of encouraging the efforts of States in the prevention of terrorism, indicating two ways to achieve this objective. Firstly, by defining as criminal offences those acts which can lead to the commission of terrorist offences, such as public incitement, recruitment and training, and secondly, by strengthening cooperation on prevention, both internally and internationally. The Amending Protocol to the European Convention for the Suppression of Terrorism, then, strengthens the fight against international terrorism in respect of human rights, amending its text in order to extend the list of crimes to be depoliticized, to include all the offences described in the relevant UN conventions and protocols against terrorism. No less important, in this respect, is the provisions of the new Council of Europe Convention on money laundering, research, seizure and confiscation of the proceeds of crime on the financing of terrorism. This measure, in short, is a key element in the success of preventive and repressive measures and is the best way to destabilise the activities of terrorist organisations, given the ability of these organisations to have, not only conventional weapons, but even nuclear weapons. In the fight against them, therefore, there can be no lack of rules specifically aimed at preventing radioactive material from ending in their hands. For this reason, the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of Nuclear Terrorism provides for the configuration of certain criminal offences, such as the possession of radioactive materials, the manufacture of devices and the damage to installation, and also for the indication that even the sole threat of committing such a crime is considered a crime, as well as complicity. These measures undoubtedly represent a significant step forward in legislative adaptation, but we must do more to provide a prompt response to an increasingly advanced and technologically advanced terrorist threat. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u65	Madam President, this measure has already been discussed in the House and has already found a favourable orientation on the part of the Northern League Group. Therefore, for the economy of our work, I would simply hand over the text of the intervention for the general debate to the documents, and reserve the right to speak in an explanation of vote, if the Presidency agrees.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u66	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u67	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration - in my humble opinion - should be dealt with in two respects: the purely technical measure of conformation and adaptation to the regulatory measures which lie within the Council of Europe, and the more analytical measure on the evolution of the European geopolitical context in recent years, the fight against terrorism and prevention measures. International cooperation, the fight against and the defence of terrorist threats are now both topical and sensitive issues, so the regulatory, coercive, intelligence and prevention instruments are, on the whole, a challenge but also an assumption of great responsibility. Not least, Italy's attention - in all national and international fora - to these issues cannot be without the protection of human rights, the promotion of democracy and the rule of law, including through the creation of a common democratic and legal area, in which cooperation between all States formulates effective solutions to the many problems facing the continent. In recent years, a large number of legal instruments on international terrorism have been produced, with an increase in regulatory production - both international and national - following the tragic events of 11 September 2001. The Council of Europe itself has been facing one of the most difficult challenges over the last decade: to ensure that increased efforts to combat terrorism do not in any way preclude the defence and protection of human rights. Thanks to important international treaties, a balance has been sought between security and protection of rights, between law enforcement and prevention. An example of this is the Convention for the Prevention of Terrorism, adopted in 2005, which strengthens the efforts of Member States to prevent terrorism, indicating two ways of action to achieve these objectives: to classify as criminal offences certain acts which could encourage terrorist offences, in particular public incitement, recruitment and training for terrorist purposes; to consolidate prevention cooperation, both at national level (so-called national prevention policies) and at international level (such as amending extradition and mutual assistance agreements). In addition, the Convention itself contains a provision on the protection and compensation of victims of terrorism, as well as a consultation process to ensure effective monitoring of its effective application. However, I should like to make a special comment on the Convention on money laundering, research, seizure and confiscation of proceeds and the financing of terrorism, not only because I presented draft law No 1662 on 5 November 2014, which called for the ratification of this Convention to this House, but above all because the provisions contained therein are based on the certainty that rapid access to information relating to the financing and financial resources of criminal organisations - and in particular terrorist groups - is essential for the effective application of preventive and repressive measures to hinder their illegal activities. In fact, money laundering of illegal origin is now peacefully classified as criminal activity; consequently, it has been formalised, despite some initial resistance, as a crime in most national criminal laws. Of no minor importance, then, is the qualification of recycling also as an exquisitely economic-financial phenomenon, in view, above all, of the distorting effects that it is able to produce on the main economic variables, on the mechanisms of allocation of resources, on the efficient use of the same and, in general, on the dynamics of the richness of a country. For these reasons, the usual repressive instruments, common to the fight against any other criminal activity, have been accompanied by a system of preventive instruments, mainly placed at the control of the financial sector. The same type of instrument has also recently been extended on the countering of terrorist financing, which, although speculatively compared to money laundering, is characterized by a clear intimate connection with the financial system. Finally, the growing transnational dimension of the phenomenon has grown over the years the involvement of international bodies of various types and sizes, with differentiated functions, in particular standards-setters, coordination of national competent authorities, the adoption of regulatory instruments and the assessment of the adequacy of national anti-money laundering systems. It therefore agrees with the novelty and foresight of the provisions contained in it not only with regard to repression, i.e. with proper investigative and judicial acts, but also with regard to the prevention and control of financial flows. I take advantage of this discussion to point out to this Assembly that the Council of Europe, of which Italy has been a member since its constitution in 1949, has urged its 47 members to ratify a minimum set of 9 conventions (we know that the Council of Europe has produced over 200 of them), the so-called key conventions, indicated in the 2014 report "State of democracy, human rights and the rule of law in Europe" by the Council of Europe. Unfortunately, Italy has not yet ratified all nine conventions, but now, with this ratification, this lack is partly filled, even if not completely, since, to date, there is no ratification of another measure no less important than those currently under discussion: Protocol No 12 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in the field of non-discrimination. This Convention has been repeatedly referred to in international fora as the subject of necessary ratification, because it is a substantial part of those conventions on the protection of human rights. In fact, although it was opened for signature by the Member States on 4 November 2000 and is in force since 1 April 2005, it is currently in force only in 19 of the 47 countries. Italy has signed but has not ratified. We had tabled a bill on this subject to ensure ratification. In conclusion, I can only be very satisfied with this bill, but I would like to ask the Government to bear in mind the ratification I have mentioned, reminding everyone that the stability of the territories, prevention and social cohesion are pursued through purely political activities, so our function, as parliamentarians called to ratify the international conventions on counter-terrorism, is certainly of great value. [[Applause from Senators Comrade and The Judge.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u69	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u70	Madam President, the arrests of the past few weeks, in Bari and Milan, of alleged ISIS-related cells, as well as the chronicle of the latest tragic events (atmospheres in flight or in meeting places such as that of Orlando), massacres at home, such as that in the west of Paris, caused by hands operating from the heart of our Europe but responding to the commands of a fundamentalism, which finds in terrorism the weapon of political affirmation, demonstrate how important and not deportable it is to equip our system of instruments suitable to prevent attacks and to counter attacks of an enemy still from the undetermined contours, of an unconventional conflict since 2001 to the present day, of an undeclared war, which wounds states unable to develop effective systems to fight almost invisible enemies. All this shows how crucial it is to move towards strengthening judicial cooperation between the Member States of the European Union, improving the information exchange system, mutual recognition of judicial decisions and coordinated action by joint investigation teams. In this context, the draft law in title, already approved by the other branch of Parliament, authorizes the ratification of five international treaties aimed at preventing and combating terrorism: the 2005 Council of Europe Convention for the prevention of terrorism, aimed at the greater protection of human rights; the Protocol amending the 2003 European Convention for the repression of terrorism, aimed at depoliticizing certain offences for the purpose of extradition; the Council of Europe Convention on money laundering, research, seizure and confiscation of proceeds of crime and on the financing of terrorism in 2005; and, finally, the 2005 United Nations Convention, adopted in New York, for the prevention and combating of preparatory operations of nuclear terrorism. The bill, therefore, brings changes to the penal code, to include among the crimes against the international personality of the State new cases compared to the innovations already introduced by Law No. 7 of 2015. Of particular importance is the crime of financing conduct for purposes of terrorism and the crime of subtraction of assets or money subject to seizure. It is punished by imprisonment from seven to fifteen years any person who collects, erodes or makes available goods or money, in any way realized, destined - in whole or in part - for the fulfilment of acts with a terrorist purpose. The criminal case is applied outside the hypothesis of association for the purposes of terrorism and the organization of transfers for the same purposes and, above all, regardless of the actual use of the collected funds. In addition, the new criminal case of acts of nuclear terrorism is included among the crimes against the internal personality of the State. Finally, for a more incisive investigation, the personnel of internal and external information and security services, similar to the judicial police, are authorized to conduct under the law as a criminal offence also in relation to a specific series of crimes for the purposes of terrorism, operating against them the special cause of non-perpetuality referred to in Article 17 of Law No 124 of 2007 for so-called undercover agents. The Financial Intermediary Unit (ULF), established by Legislative Decree No 231 of 2007, is instead designated as a financial intelligence authority under the Council of Europe Convention on money laundering, research, seizure and confiscation of the proceeds of crime. In this context of international agreements, the most recent European legislation on terrorism should also be included. With regard to prevention, the proposal for a directive replacing the 2002 Framework Decision is currently being examined, including with a view to setting minimum standards for terrorist offences at EU level, including specific provisions on the protection of victims of terrorism. There is also provision for strengthening border security through new technologies for the development of an integrated border system and biometric passports, as well as strengthening the second generation Schengen information system in order to systematically include data on foreign terrorist fighters. On 4 February, the European Commission proposed a new action plan, which focuses on two main areas of action: identifying terrorists through their financial movements and preventing them from moving funds or other assets. In Italy, let's remember, based on the data reported in the latest report of the National Anti-Mafia and Anti-Terrorism Directorate, in the period July 2014 - June 2015 the crimes ascribed to foreigners for crimes consumed or attempted in Italy for terrorist purposes were 224. The report also highlights the strong complementarity between international terrorism and the use of the financial system for money laundering purposes. In the last annual report of the Financial Information Unit for Italy it is found in fact that the ISIS accumulates approximately 3 billion dollars a year with criminal activities of vast scope, confirmed by the resolutions adopted by the United Nations in 2015: traffics of narcotics, smuggling of oil and works of art, trafficking of weapons, smuggling of tobacco, trafficking of migrants, extortion and kidnapping of person, corruption and money laundering of the illicit proceeds. These are criminal activities that, in order to be carried out, need a broad relational network of complicity outside the terrorist-mafia association, which, in order to generate profits, tend to interact with the legal economy through official circuits such as money transfer circuits. For this reason, it is essential to combat and intercept fundraising systems. It is clear that legislative instruments of repression, including the inclusion of new criminal cases, will not suffice to combat ISIS or to control the expansion of the phenomenon of enlistment in the ranks of international terrorism on European territory. Much will have to be done on the prevention front; we have to ask ourselves about our urban suburbs, social and aggregation suburbs, those suburbs of Europe as places where fundamentalism and deviance are fed, outskirts of cities, but also in the agricultural banlieues, those of the Tavoliere delle Puglie for example, between black work and hymns to jihad, so that threats to our Western paradigm, to the places of our common and daily life, do not represent more target of a conflict that while losing territory in the valley of the Tigris and the Euphrates, even more today in Falluja, counts on the ransom action in the West of young people animated by fanaticism, radicalized also for reasons of personal ransom, young people often already reported by the police. If in Italy there are 100 foreign fighters, in France there are over 10,000, targets of a war that finds in other ideological root regions, and borders, dynamics of geopolitics not far from our Mediterranean Sea, European external border, once a crossroads of culture and commerce, and today a place of odyssey of men and women who challenge death for the dream of a Europe that still knows how to represent the utopia of civilization between security, but also between reception and solidarity. A Europe that cannot go backwards from a greater commitment to development cooperation in favour of those areas of North Africa and the Middle East from whose shores the hope still escapes. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u71	Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u74	RICHIUTI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have two questions to ask: 4-05420 and 4-04150. In these questions I urge the most careful assessment of the very critical situation affecting the city of Seregno, administered for too many years by a Junta which, while moving on from different natural persons, is instead subject to the same conditioning, at least indirect, of the 'ndrangheta. In my questions, I explain the innumerable symptoms of this conditioning: attendances, infiltrations, findings of weapons, violence against journalist Fabrizio Gatti and intimidation to journalists of You see, Mr President, in my beautiful city of Desio, we the 'ndrangheta' kicked her out of the city, kicked her out and kept her out. I would like to say to the thousands of honest and courageous seregnes and brianzoli that we are with them and that the Minister of the Interior will have to answer my questions and finally send the committee of access to the Municipality of Seregno. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u77	CARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I rise to ask for the answer to Question 4-05823, which I tabled on 18 May 2016. In the question I ask the intervention of the Minister of Labour and social policies so that the circular is issued urgently for the authorization codes suitable for compensation for the many Italian companies that have taken advantage of the social shock absorbers or solidarity contracts in order to compensate with the INPS the sums advanced to the workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u80	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to address the Government's response to Question 4-04661 of 8 October 2015 concerning the national commander of the State Forestry Corps Cesare Patrone. In addition to being directly involved in an embarrassing telephone conversation with the lawyer Cipriano Chianese, inventor of the eco-afies in Campania, in which he argues with bold distaste of decrees and actions of the Ministry, Patrone has also recently been returned to trial by association to delinquere, peculate, scam, fake in public act, auction disturbance and office abuse in relation to the case East Sesia. According to the investigators, the summits of East Sesia, a consortium of irrigation and reclamation, would have created a system to obtain public refunds far greater than those due, about 26 million euros, relying on collaborators among which would be the current national commander of the Forest Corps of the State that in 2012, the year in which the alleged crimes are contested, was part of a commission for the testing of the works carried out on the bridges of the Quintino Sella Channel. In recent days during a question time of some members of the 5 Star Movement, Minister Martina said that he was not aware of Patrone's referral to judgment. Statements that not only regret the ridicule, but also appear to be a precise choice on the part of the Minister to take a pilatesque position with respect to an affair that will obviously have to be ascertained during the trial, but that due to its gravity requires an immediate step backwards by Caesar Patrone, figure wrapped in many shadows, which, nevertheless, was requested in joint hearing of the Committees on Constitutional Affairs and the Environment. There is no answer to the question. The resignation is even more necessary if, in the context of the correct and loyal collaboration between institutional figures, Patrone did not even think to inform Minister Martina of his referral to trial. Is this the respect for the institutions that Dr. Patrone has developed in more than thirty years of belonging to the Forestry Corps? How long are the Presidency of the Council, Minister Martina and the other Ministers involved in the absorption process of the Forestry Corps still willing to give credit to a man who was also audited in the Commission last week in the context of the examination of the Act of Government n. 306, despite the numerous skeletons he seems to have in the closet and despite the fact that there are numerous requests for blocking this figure?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u83	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, Minister Franceschini will certainly have heard of the archaeological findings of the Villa di Cesare and Massenzio which came to light as a result of the excavations to the realization of a vast integrated plan that, approved in 1997, includes a parish complex, an extensive residential area and commercial outbuildings. Findings that, made from 2009 in San Cesareo, a few kilometers from Rome, in an area that has always been known for archaeological evidence, are still in complete state of abandonment, without protection and at the mercy of speculative interests, despite the repeated reports of citizens and local committees. Today no one seems more interested in these important findings although, at first, all political forces, on the drive of the city mobilization, have submitted several questions to the Council of the Lazio Region and to the Chamber of Deputies including that addressed to the current Minister for simplification and public administration Madia. In 2011, the clamor was such that the Undersecretary for Cultural Heritage Francesco Giro, of Forza Italia, mobilized to place a bond of absolute inedibilability on the area of the Villa. Despite this, the failure to apply the indirect constraint provided for by law, the absence of clear indications on the obligations of protection of the assets found, the failure to submit documentation to all the participating agencies the Conference of Services, the drafting of vaguely permissive opinions, although with prescriptions, issued by the offices, have allowed the area to be left in a state of complete abandonment and that the two private companies (the real estate companies Due Gi Srl and Selva Prima Srl) together with the bishop's curia of Palestrina, continue to present design variants that, in addition to a total cost of more than 500,000 euros, have seen more times inadequate engagement of the public function. This is also what emerges from the opinions of the same Superintendence, from the answers provided by the Province of Rome (Metro Rome), from the urban management and territory of the Lazio Region in the face of recent questions and access to the acts carried out respectively by our regional and municipal advisors of the 5 Star Movement. We therefore address the concerns of citizens and in particular of the local defense committee of the territory which, on 15 June 2015 and 18 March 2016, explicitly highlighted the criticalities of the integrated plan. To date, however, it seems to continue the aim now evident, to break down the urbanistic and landscape constraints, using the public work of the new church of San Giuseppe as a gremaldello to start, in reality, with the complicity of the curia, a building speculation pushed by the local builders and by who knows what hidden external investors. I would like to say that we are going to put a question to you tomorrow. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u84	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-06-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-643.ana.u85	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 23 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.35 a.m.
