ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u6	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I know that it will be for the Presidency to remember more than that, but this night a great personality of contemporary history died: the former President of the State of Israel, Shimon Peres, one of the great personalities of our time. [[Applause]] He was a collaborator of Ben Gurion, one of the great founders of the State of Israel, he was a man who has always served his country, on several occasions, in governments, in many Dicasteries, as Minister of Defence, as Prime Minister and, finally, as President of the Republic. He was an unhesitating defender of the State of Israel and its existence, but he was also a great man of peace. It is no coincidence that he received the Nobel Prize and, not by chance, he has always worked for peaceful coexistence between the Palestinian people and the Israeli people. I believed it was right, today, to interrupt for a few moments our work, to dedicate a memory to this great personality, which was also deeply linked to our country. I would remind you that with colleagues from the 2nd Commission (foreign affairs, emigration) we had with him what I believe was one of his last meetings, in his 'Peres Centre for Peace', a wonderful building on the sea, which radiates peace and serenity in a martyred area of the Middle East. Mr President, I think it is right that the Senate should honour him in the time and manner that the President will consider, but for the moment I have felt it necessary, as President of the Foreign Affairs Committee, to take the floor and submit to you the memory of this great man and this great personality. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u7	The Presidency supports the statements made by the President of the Foreign Commission to Shimon Peres, whom many of us have had the opportunity to meet and appreciate in Israel and in its international activity. A protagonist of contemporary history, for which I believe that the House, waiting for other initiatives, should remember it with a minute's silence. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2287, 649 and 1835.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u9	Mr President, I shall make a few brief comments on the draft law before this House, the so-called movie reform, also in the light of the action taken in the 7th Commission. First of all, this bill puts to our attention a reflection on the role that the State has in the promotion of culture in this country. I believe that in the film and audiovisual sector, in the area covered by this draft law, it is clear and clear to all that there are strong actors and weak actors. The great international productions, the ones that generate blockbusters at the box office, can also be strong actors the big entrepreneurs and the cinemas Multiplex: strong actors that in general move a considerable financial envelope and that almost do not need public interventions to move on. Then there are the weak actors, who unfortunately depend on this contribution and who, in my opinion, ensure the cultural plurality necessary to represent human creativity. Well, the question that we have to ask ourselves in this House at the time of the parliamentary passage of this draft law for the reform of cinema is whether this text actually achieves the objective - constitutionally speaking, I remember it - of safeguarding and promoting cultural plurality in the film and audiovisual sector, ensuring adequate support for those weak people, who would be in danger where public support should be lacking or reduced. From this point of view, I believe that the draft law under consideration is still very critical. I would like to start with the governance of the sector, as outlined in the draft law, in particular the Strategic Cinema Council, which is being set up. To speak of this ministerial committee, I would like to open a brief statement on the excursus that the draft law had during its examination in the Commission. I would remind all my colleagues that initially, in the Commission, we were discussing another draft law, the first signatory of which is Senator Di Giorgi, who was also rapporteur for the measure. We began to examine it in mid-2015, with a long series of hearings, which took place within four to five months and which had all the stakeholders in the film world paraded before us in the Commission. That bill is substantially different from what we are considering today because, during the process in the Commission of the Di Giorgi bill, on 28 January, the government intervened, announcing a government measure. It was an intervention which I described as a step forward in relation to the work of the Commission, which had already begun and was even about to conclude the long list of hearings. Of course, I compared myself in the Commission on this. Indeed, it is true that we had begun the discussion of the Di Giorgi bill to sting the Government to come out with a measure, inter alia linked to the stability maneuver, but in my opinion it was gravely incorrect from an institutional point of view and not respectful of our work to intervene with a bill that completely overturns the pillars of the Di Giorgi bill, which we were already examining in the Commission. Moreover, creating a situation for which we had a list of auditors who came to talk about a bill that, in fact, did not exist anymore: it has "evaporated." The story of the Strategic Cinema Council is very interesting from this point of view. The bill presented by Senator Di Giorgi provided for a National Cinema Centre, which was a third party far more collegiate than a mere ministerial committee and which was deleted and replaced by this ministerial committee. In the government press release of 28 January, this committee existed and was made up of ten members, nine of whom were appointed by government. The committee, present in the government press release, disappeared from the article then arrived in the Commission at the end of March, almost as if the government had repented about the generation of a central committee. I would remind you that the committee has a consultative but also a proactive role, as it is also consulted on the part of the Investment Fund in the cinema that generates this law. The government, revisiting the excessive centralism in this area, presented a structure that did not include this body, which was then re-inserted with an amendment by the rapporteur, betraying the idea that the same had in mind regarding the governance of cinema. It is curious what followed this committee, which was first present in the press release, then disappeared, allowing the Show Consultants to resume their role, and then be reinstated by the rapporteur in the article, deleting the cinema section of the Show Consultants at MIBAC. Those were truly collegial bodies which included, among other things, the representation of film associations within them. There is therefore a centralistic drift that has erased the contribution of the community and stakeholders of the film world with the re-introduction of the committee in this law. This body has a say in the distribution of the Investment Fund, which, as you know, provides for an automatic and selective part. The first is awarded to film companies that can demonstrate that they have a production in their portfolio and, by virtue of this, receive funding. This part, which accounts for 85% of the Fund (and, therefore, the vast majority of the money), goes to companies that already have a well-established tradition of film production. We are talking about large companies and certainly not small independent enterprises, and this is another vulnus compared to representing the cultural plurality I was talking about at the beginning. The criteria by which this money is divided are what the committee puts its mouth on, so it's all connected in the government design. Then there is a 15% selective contribution that can go to independent productions, but the criteria for distributing this Fund, apart from the fact that their definition is delegated to a subsequent decree implementing the Ministry, will be decided by a committee of five ministerial nomination experts. Among other things, in this quota are included quotas that go to very authoritative institutions such as, for example, the Istituto Luce or the Cineteca of Bologna: the quotas given to these institutions, however deserving, are removed from the quota that goes to the real weak subjects, such as the associations of promotion of cinema culture, that is the associations that capillaryly send programs of cinema dissemination through the screenings, debates and the management of small rooms. They are basically those stakeholders who guarantee cultural plurality. It is clear that this bill, as long as it is awaited by the world of cinema and as amended by various amendments in the Commission, remains completely unsatisfactory and, in my opinion, inadmissible in the area of guarantees for cultural plurality in the cinema and audiovisual sector. If we wanted to guarantee these simple values - which I would even call constitutional - we had to foresee a role of the State much more attentive to these small realities and much less attentive to the great distributions and large halls, which almost always go on on their exclusive legs. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u11	Mr President, I believe that Giuseppe Tornatore's masterpiece "New Cinema Paradiso" has remained in the eyes of all of us, describing the bitter, sad but also strongly engaging history of a small cinema in the province. I would like to talk about this today, because thanks to the sensitivity of the rapporteur and the Commission, during the long work that has been carried out in the Commission, three amendments were adopted, two of which I signed first, on this very issue. They are amendments that go in the direction of establishing a sort of preferential route for the contribution to the cinematic exercise in small rooms, which are located in municipalities with less than 15,000 inhabitants, and to encourage the programming of Italian and European works through the instrument of tax credit, giving also in this case a preferential route to small rooms. Then there is my colleague, Mr Ruta's amendment to Article 26, which places particular emphasis on small rooms as regards contributions for the reactivation, restructuring and technological adaptation of existing rooms. I regard this intervention as the recognition of a reality that we often forget. In the municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants, representing 85 percent of the total universe of Italian municipalities, lives about 30 percent of the Italian population. Well, in these years, there has been a devastating desertification in these territories, with the disappearance of these halls, which, in the past, had represented an identity moment of cultural formation and of the idea of community that I believe should be helped and safeguarded. Obviously, salt desertification has taken place because of changes in habits and consumption: the burst of pay-TV, the spread of the Internet and also, especially in recent years, a significant increase in costs for the digital transition and therefore the adaptation and technological innovation. I think it is right to stress the importance of the role of these small halls in small municipalities and the bill that we hope to adopt today goes in the right direction, paying more attention to the small dimension that must have as much consideration as to the larger film realities, including the so-called multi-salas. I think it is right to stress this and that is the reason for my speech. I thank the rapporteur and the Commission again because I believe that it has given itself a signal, small but not insignificant. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u12	Senator Giro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u13	Mr President, I have no difficulty in saying that we are discussing a system law, an important law that goes to support and promote Italian cinema, which needs it. So from the Group of Forza Italia there was full and wide availability. The intervention of Senator Bocchino, who preceded me, was, in my opinion, legitimate and rigorous because he said things that we all know and think, that is, that this Government unfortunately has the bad habit of not having Parliament work in conditions of serenity. We saw it with the decree good school, a law, yes, really important for the Italian families: we had worked in the Commission and we had our proposals to be submitted to the attention of political parties - because the "political" is not yet a bad word and the parties are provided by the Constitution - but also on that occasion the government presented us the device, beautiful and cooked in the secrets (but not so secret) rooms of Palazzo Chigi. And the same thing happened with the law on cinema, a law to a large extent acceptable, which is not a reversal of the draft laws that were at the attention of the members of the Commission (I also have the pride of being able to say that among these draft laws there was one at first signature Giro, on the first works and the second works). However, on this occasion too, the Government wanted to impose on the Commission a very complex structure, which we have naturally assessed and amended, but the plant is what the Government has cooked for us. Senator Bocchino is right to point out that we have listened to the industry over the last few months, almost a year, so we have been confronted, thanks to a commendable, rigorous and detailed work of the rapporteur: this must be said and must be remembered, because this Parliament works, and works well as well. It is the Government that, with a watchful eye, I do not know why, perhaps because it wants commercial laws, with an attitude that should be avoided, even in this circumstance, is pervasive, omnipresent and wants "dettar law." I recall, briefly, that this law is not born out of nothing. Lavoisier said: nothing is created, nothing is destroyed, everything is transformed. A law on cinema exists, in fact: it existed and still exists, it is the legislative decree n. 28 of 2004 of the Berlusconi Government. The minister of that time was Giuliano Urbani, who in 2004 gave birth to two important measures, two legislative decrees, moreover approved on the same day (he was a great Urban worker, timely and effective): the first measure concerned, precisely, the cinema and the second the cultural heritage and the landscape. It is good to remember these passages. The legislative decree on the cinema of Urbani wanted to overcome the scandal of the guarantee fund of Veltroni, which had given money to everyone, indiscriminately and without any verification. Other than commission, other than reference system, other than automatic scoring system! There was nothing, the money was destined for friends of friends and, in fact, in four to five years we threw out the window one thousand billion of the old lire. A thousand billion of the old lire for films never seen, little seen or, even, never made and never released on film screens. Unfortunately, there are striking cases, which for the sake of Fatherland I will not remember, because they involve renowned directors, who took, then, billions of lire and, after that, millions of euros for films little seen or never produced. This is the reality behind us. Fortunately, Professor Urbani has arrived, who knows how to account and has proposed to introduce an automatic or partially automatic system, with the intercourse with a committee of experts of national and international fame who had a minimum of knowledge of what film production is and what film is. We have therefore had this law, which has put some order, because those who receive the money have to return them, since they are not payments made on a non-refundable basis. Indeed personally, dear President, I would ask for a committee of inquiry into the management of the FUS in the nineties, because strangely these directors live all in the center, they all have luxurious houses, but if you check the box office, there are films not little seen, never made. I asked myself a few questions, from Undersecretary for Cultural Heritage: so we don't play with Italian cinema. Compared to the draft law under consideration, I greatly appreciated the interventions of the senators who preceded me, but they contained a lot of poetry: we talked about the law, Italian cinema, the diffusion abroad, the sale of the image Italy in international circuits, the industrial logic that has to meet a sector that is primary for the economic well-being of this country. Let us be clear: the bill that we go to approve doubles the Film Fund, passing it from the current 225 million euros (85 of the FUS and 140 of the tax credit) to the 400 million euros of the new Fund for the promotion of cinema and audiovisual. So we have 400 million euros that we give to the cinema. Very well, I am in favour of supporting cinema, but be careful: we do quality checks, we try not to throw away again, resources, as happened in the past and for responsibility not of the center-right, which has never had control over anything in the field of culture, but of others. We try to make better use of this money, which is a lot, not a few, and they are welcome, because Italian cinema is in trouble. I am therefore more optimistic than Senator Bocchino than the distribution of resources, because 85 percent of automation is regulated by objective criteria, including the box office. A director or producer who presents his proposal must prove that he has cashed in with the previous films, that is to say to make films that arouse a minimum of interest, because Italian citizens are not all fools, they go to see the movies and I believe that by buying the ticket they can express their evaluation. I think of a criterion that puts the citizen at the center, that is that of the box office: do you sell tickets? They buy your movie? Finally, there is the criterion of sales abroad, as it should be. Senator Di Giorgi fought on this point: to be credible, a film must sell abroad on international circuits. Another criterion is the contracts with international TV: in fact, Senator Bocchino and Senator Fornaro are right, when they say that television now plays a fundamental role in the dissemination and promotion of cinema. Then there is the presence and selection in the festivals. These are criteria that we share: we are in the presence of an automatism but regulated by objective criteria. All right, but be careful: these criteria must be applied with absolute transparency, because we are talking about about 60-70 million of these 400 million per year, so a lot of money for big productions. Then, Senator Bocchino is right when he says that there are selective contributions to the first works, second, to the under 35 directors, to the development projects of the new scripts, to the original scripts and so on, for a rate that must not be less than 15 percent or more than 18 percent (so something more than 15 percent). The trouble is that this is an empty box, because everything is entrusted to the Minister, to the decrees of Minister Franceschini in this case. So as far as selective contributions are concerned, the Minister decides who to reward, who to support, who to encourage. And not only that: the application of all this legislation is entrusted to ministerial decrees, an ancient problem, that Senator Di Giorgi would have wanted to circumvent by setting up an autonomous committee to promote cinema along the lines of the French model, but it was not possible. It is all in the hands of the Minister and the Ministry; it was even when I was Undersecretary, only that the money doubled: from 200 to 400 million euros. Be careful how this money is used. We invented the umpteenth consulta: there was already the Consulta for the show divided by sectors, so there was already the consulta cinema and they invented the Higher Council for Cinema and Audiovisual, which carries out analysis activities, expresses opinions, organizes consultations, formulates proposals, in short nothing. But I trust the government, which is made up of political parties voted by people, so I trust and trust the government and the minister. There are objective criteria: quality of the project. So let's trust the experts, because the Ministry has heroics, like the superintendents, for whom I have always had great respect. We also have experts in the film industry. Finally, I would like to say a few words about tax credit. Here too, honor to Berlusconi, who turns 80 tomorrow. The tax credit saved Italian cinema; a great policy of tax advantage, an objective tax discount. The tax credit was thought of by the Prodi Government, through Rotelli, but it was regulated, after an extensive negotiation with the authorities of the European Union as there was a prospect of state aid, by Berlusconi and by Minister Bondi. So, you have to thank Rotelli and Bondi. Thanks also go to Mr Bray, who was strangely forgotten. In my opinion, Bray, a representative of the Letta Government, was one of the best Ministers of Culture. He stabilized the tax credit, which first lasted three years and had to be extended. The tax credit has been stabilized and the capacity has reached 140 million euros, which affect the 400 of which I have spoken before. However, care must be taken when banks give external tax credit. When banks give 100, 40 is tax credit and, therefore, instead of going to the Revenue Agency it is given to the cinema. But the remaining 60 give it? Are we sure they give it to the movies? Are we sure everything is given? Or the banks say, let's give 40, and by 60, let's see if you do ticketing. Let's check these passages. The banks must give 100 and not 40, because this requires the law. President Romani has followed this step with great rigour, because he is interested and expert in the matter. We have no difficulty: we will meet and confront each other and I am sure that we will give a positive overall assessment of the measure under consideration. The warning, however, is as follows: let us not turn the law of cinema into a new commercial. All we need is the one on the Messina Bridge. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u14	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education (Giuseppe Solimene) in Lavello, in the province of Potenza, present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u15	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the many referrals, the examination and approval of the draft law governing cinema, audiovisual and entertainment has been instrumentally anticipated to date. By the way, being a text linked to the public finance maneuver, it should have taken precedence over the other measures already before. In the Commission the debate was held and the hearings were held on the text of Mrs Di Giorgi, who wanted to ensure a democratic path towards a final text that was truly shared with the operators in the sector, as she said several times to the audit staff. Unfortunately, at the head of the Democratic Party there is Mr Renzi and the Government, very undemocratic in principles and methods, wanted to put the hat on this issue too, catapulting - it is right to say - in the Commission for Public Education, cultural goods the so-called bill Franceschini, in order to limit - as more and more often happens - the prerogatives of Parliament and to guarantee the realization of marchettes required, forgetting - vice versa - the definition of documentary and providing a wrong framework of the films commissions, bodies that should be quite foreign to the games and electoral needs of the political class and used not already to give assistance to local administrations, but to guarantee priority support and assistance to national and international cinematographic and audiovisual productions, able to intercept various sources of financing with benefits in economic terms, employment and visibility of the territory and with indirect repercussions on tourism. From the outset, our idea of cinema - as you can imagine - has proved very different from that of the majority and above all of the Government, based on alternative and well-defined objectives, which are those of enhancing the professionalism and skills acquired by the workers in each phase of the process of processing and distribution of film; returning to public investments in the cinema industry of cultural and social value, enhancing, through the promotion of a quality cinema, the training of the public, starting with young people in schools of every order and grade; ensuring transparency and meritocracy in the provision of state contributions and tax facilities, with a particular focus on emerging and Italian film directors and products or the start-ups of the sector; providing tax concessions for the cinemas of the medium-small municipalities, in the conviction that in small and medium-sized territorial realities the same rooms constitute an indispensable element of social aggregation for all ages, such as opportunities for cultural growth and support for the dissemination of cinematographic products of it, which are difficult to find space in the programming of multi-sales. Little or nothing has been foreseen at the tax level for small cinemas, for which we had proposed at least a dignified tax relief of 25% in the municipalities up to 90,000 inhabitants. These proposals are well linked to the value that is recognised at European level by audiovisual works and in particular cinematographic works, considered strategic, because they reflect the cultural diversity of the different traditions and stories of the Member States themselves. Working in an amending way on this measure, we have therefore tried to guarantee Italian professionalism a greater protection than that of which they have been able to benefit so far, because in this sector, too, relocation has been imposed as a harsh law of the market. There are many producers who in recent years, after having collected substantial public resources, have transferred productions abroad to save on costs, but penalising many talents and professionalism even historical of our country. We have tabled amendments on this subject, but the Government has accepted only one agenda at my first signature, in which it calls for the introduction of regulatory mechanisms to provide for the return of the public contribution if Italian or foreign film companies operating in our territory do not employ at least 50% of all the staff provided for in the proposed production project. And we hope that this will actually be achieved. A sector hitherto underestimated, in its role of finishing and guaranteeing the quality of the film product, is that of post-production. Also on this we have tried to intervene, but the Government has previewed, in article 27, paragraphs 1 and 2, for the digitization of the audiovisual heritage and national cinema, only a contribution to lost of 10 million euros, for each of the years 2017, 2018 and 2019. We of the 5 Star Movement consider now passed the lost fund, a method of random assignment, because in fact it has always been used to please clients and friends. We have foreseen, otherwise, that for the Italian companies engaged in post-production there are the provision of the lost fund and the connection of the provision of public contributions on the basis of investments already made on technological innovation, taking into account also the size of the structure and the degree of adaptation of the same to the norms of health and safety previewed from the law; a correct use of original software; an attention demonstrated for the employment youth - aspects tied to a serious planning in the short and medium term - and the forecast of an adequate volume of investments. I welcome the adoption of the relevant agenda, but we hope that it will be put into effect. We will therefore call for concrete achievements for these commitments to be taken into account. In an improved spirit of text we have also tried to include the obligation for producers and distributors to equip the films that are being released in Italy with some accessibility aids, such as subtitles and audio-description, for an audience with particular disabilities. It is necessary to equip the cinemas with radio receivers for audio descriptions and eyelets for subtitles. It is an already active project in France, England and the countries of Northern Europe that, although not approved tout court by the Commission, has at least imposed on the majority to foresee among the founding principles of the law promoting and promoting the widest use of cinema also for people with disabilities. At the moment, they are only good intentions, but this is the way forward to create a new culture of respect and full integration. Also in this legislative process we have been the watchmen of the citizens, with listening ability, with a far-sighted vision of the film industry, in defense of the less fortunate social groups and the most exploited sectors. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u17	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today involves measures relating to cinema and the audiovisual sector and contains relevant rules for these two important sectors of our country. In Italy, cinema has been known to have been the object, until today, of an uneven and disorganized body of legislation since its first attempts at regulation. That is why there was a need for intervention not simply corrective, but structural, which could support its development and restore momentum. Minister Franceschini acknowledged in this sense the path initiated by the Democratic Party, which presented a first proposal for a law on the subject, at the first signature of Senator Di Giorgi, whom I supported and signed with many other colleagues, highlighting the value and social importance of cinema and cinemas and how the State should be committed to the dissemination of cinema culture in Italy. Following this line, the Government presented a bill related to the budget law for the year 2016 which took over the parliamentary proposal. It is, therefore, good intentions - as you recalled, Senator Blondo - but supported by resources. The draft law was examined and improved during the examination of colleagues from the Education Commission and finally came to the House. As the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi, whom I thank for the work carried out together with the Commission as a whole, pointed out, the aim of the measure is to relaunch and develop the cinema and audiovisual sector by implementing established principles at international and European level as well, to safeguard cultural values and identities in global and technological society. In addition to the aims and principles, the text contains several financial measures, which allow the measure to have legs and then move on its own. It is therefore not a zero-cost investment: it is a use of significant resources made by the Government and Parliament, which must therefore be supported, as Senator Fornaro mentioned earlier. One of the most interesting measures is the doubling of existing resources with the establishment of the Fund for the Development of Investment in Cinema and Audiovisual. The budget has increased to €400 million per year (as against the current €200 million, but allocated to different funds). Around EUR 70 million will be allocated to projects aimed primarily at young people, first and second works, artworks and quality content. Another important measure is the tax credit, which ranges from 15 to 40% depending on the types and purposes of which a composite group of subjects will benefit, in order, on the one hand, to protect our Made in Italy and, on the other, to seek foreign investments. Then there is an important article, on the 26th, that extraordinary plan for cinemas, which represents another remarkable investment. It will use €30 million annually for 2017, 2018 and 2019, another €20 million for 2020 and €10 million for 2021. In total, there will be 120 million euros of grants for five years in order to promote the homogeneous diffusion of the rooms on the national territory, with special facilities for the historical centers and for those municipalities with less than 15,000 inhabitants that are really the majority in our national territory. Additional contributions, €10 million for three years as a grant or for soft loans, are allocated to digitalization of audiovisual and cinematographic works by Italian companies. Finally, the draft law reserves as much as 12 million (at least 3% of the fund) for image education, teacher training, the establishment and development of courses, in accordance with the MIUR, which will allow to create over the years an audience able to benefit from the cinema offering in an attentive, demanding and critical way. Through this measure, cinema is finally considered an instrument of growth, sharing and learning, fundamental to our cultural system. Integration between culture and education is a very important element to be achieved. Thus MIBACT and MIUR have signed a Memorandum of Understanding which includes activities to promote language and cinema and theatrical culture in schools. The aim is to encourage theatrical, cinematographic, artistic and performing practice in schools, both as a formative and creative experience, and as an instrument of education in artistic and aesthetic language and thus to follow up what has already been established within the decree the good school. The harmonization between the various ministries, and not just between the ministers, which dialogue with each other took place with the school-work alternation and is now taking place with culture and education. Ministers Franceschini and Giannini also presented two competitions aimed at students on the themes of cinema and theatre. This is a significant change of perspective: schools have gone very often to theatre and cinema, while today we bring cinema and theatre into the school, to bring the public closer to culture. This is a delay that is being remedied. I would also like to remind you that the legislative decree on good school includes not only the return of art history, but also the introduction of cinema and audiovisual, never considered at ministerial level. The 500 euro cultural bonus for young people, to be spent on theatres, cinemas and music, is also an important intervention. Having said that, the rules contained in this measure are all intended to rationalise the system and simplify the measures to promote and support cinema. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to examine the text quickly for its immediate approval and for the transition to the House. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u19	I would point out to the groups that some Members have given up speaking in this debate and, therefore, the voting phase is imminent. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are examining draft law No 2287 for the discipline of the cinema and audiovisual sectors. After a very "convenient" reversal of the order of business, it was decided that this measure was less risky for the majority than the draft law of reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In this way we mix the cards, we participate once again in a game of the parts built specifically to take time and that automatically seems to downgrade the measure under consideration that - as we have heard during the other speeches that have preceded me - is instead very important. Although there are no thorny issues such as interception and prescription, those who have participated in the long process of this reform in the 7th Commission - as Senator Liuzzi has done for our Group - know that for a long time now he has been expecting the final chapter of the measure. This bill should, in fact, constitute an organic reform of a system that for years has been characterized by laws, laws, decrees and regulations that have made the regulatory system a maze as complex as it lacks a vision. Yet Italian cinema is an excellence of our country. It represents the artistic and creative spirit that, since ancient times, has been the prerogative of Italian minds. As such, it should be enhanced, protected and exported by holding it in the palm of your hand. Even more, this text is the son of another bill, presented by my colleague Di Giorgi, who had collected a large number of consents among the members of the other groups and Senator Liuzzi himself had been co-signatorial. It was probably a better proposal in many respects: for example, it provided for the National Centre for Cinema and Audiovisual Expressions, which was regulated in detail in its composition and functions, in order to form a body of self-government in the sector. On the other hand, in this text, the National Centre has been replaced by a general Higher Council by extensive but uncertain powers, consisting of persons of proven professional qualifications for whom no emolument is expected, therefore precarious or successful unemployed. As often happens, we had to compromise and adopt the text from the Ministry. Fortunately, at least a few amending proposals have been accepted, since the text of the Government did not even contain the definitions of artist's and artist's films, just to name a few. We do not even comment on the established practice of proposing amendments at the last minute, and the rapporteur - I don't want to - knows how frustrating this is for other colleagues to evaluate the proposals and intervene. Returning to the definitions, we see that that of audiovisual work includes almost everything, including works with video-gaming content and, above all, television. So we have a spontaneous suspicion that the ultimate aim of the project is, more than anything else, to finance fictions, which perhaps would replace the film story, which is really quite different. Another area of concern is the financing arrangements. The contributions from the Fund for the Development of Investment in Cinema and Audiovisual appear to be almost automatic for 85%, i.e. essentially the prerogative of companies already placed in the market and, for 15 to 18%, selective (amongst other things, a 25% limit in the Commission with an amendment shared by the Government, but immediately withdrawn), aimed at difficult films made with modest financial resources. In essence, most resources go to strong companies and crumbs to independent productions, i.e. films that often win prizes and are marked for quality. The percentage attributed to the excellences and prototypes then goes down to about 10 percent, being included in the quota a sequence of voices pertaining to the promotion in Italy and abroad. Among the lines emerges therefore the line of the Government: generous financing to the large producer companies and their associations in spite of the universe of authors and small structures. These are the main content that we have highlighted as a Conservative and Reformist Group and, on the basis of this, we are currently expressing an interim position, even pending the examination of the amendments that will then be dealt with by this House. On the basis of what will be the final content that we will see achieved after the examination of the amendments, we will be expressing a more complete position and will do so for us the leader in the Commission, Senator Liuzzi. [[Applause from Senator Comrade]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u22	Mr President, of course, we can 'consulate with aglietto', as we used to say when our experience was closer to the world of agriculture. In other words, it can be said that, thanks to some amendments, support has been included in the bill for small cinemas, as Senator Fornaro has done, or it can be said that the film industry desperately needs a few more euros, and this measure promises it. And he has a desperate need because - as you know - the cultural industry, and the film industry in particular, is faced with a competition for many years now absolutely asymmetric and extremely strong of the American product. But if we look at the history and process of the draft law under consideration, we find all the stigmata that have marked the legislature and that can be summed up in one sentence: a continuous, progressive, methodical expropriation of Parliament by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I had signed the bill at the first signature of Senator Di Giorgi on cinema. I didn't share everything about that project, but there were two particularly important and promising cornerstones, and it was made clear and repeated reference to the French experience. Now, our neighbours of Oltralp accept, perhaps more than we do, free trade, free competition, the rules that seem to be at this stage those of capitalism and that are not in the willingness to change them by the various states, but with an exception, that is, the cultural exception, as the French call it. It is argued, that the only case in which the pure law of competition cannot be valid is when it comes to protecting a product, which is the result of an ancient cultural tradition specific to the country, because culture is life, innovation and hope to build the future. This has always been the point of French legislation, which, among other things - as we have seen in the 7th Commission on Public Education, Cultural Heritage, when I was a member of it - has been a major success. The second cornerstone of the intention of Senator Di Giorgi was to proceed to a methodical consultation of the protagonists of the sector, i.e. the authors, the managers of the halls, the producers and all those who live in cinema and audiovisual and who realize that small miracle that is the Italian cultural production in this sector of our country. Well, the Government has decided to intervene by expropriating the Parliamentary Commission and Senator Di Giorgi of the measure and presenting one of its own. This is, in fact, the line of the Renzi Government, aimed at replacing Parliament and, in exchange for little money and little funding, to sit at all tables where you decide anything about the cultural, economic and productive activities of the country. We have experienced this method - I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you are aware of its harmful consequences - when we adopted the draft law, which is also a government initiative, concerning RAI. I told you then that this project essentially served the Government to sit at the table with large private and regular networks, in fact, the system from Palazzo Chigi. This has happened and the same controversy that the majority of RAI administrators, who have been appointed by the Government and the majority, have broken down gives the sense of the real objective, which is a management in progress and corporate sector, in this case television. Well, with cinema you want to do exactly the same thing: in exchange for little money you appoint a committee, which is essentially a government appointment, which will decide the allocation of funds. Language also makes it clear that the Government intends to back up and accompany sectors of the film industry, putting the task into the background, which in the intentions of the Di Giorgi project should have been similar to that of France, that is to help the quality cultural product. The text speaks, however, very little of the authors and of the culture - which has been produced in cinema too - and is heavily involved in the aspect of the business. It has been decided not to resort to a tax of purpose, and this is also a demagogic and substantially wrong decision. A tax of purpose to defend the great Italian cultural production would in fact have been appreciated by Italians, who of course do not want to be cut by taxes, but agree to put their hand on the wallet when they understand what this is for. Above all, it was decided to concentrate everything in the hands of the Commission. This is a profoundly wrong line, ladies and gentlemen, which reveals an idea of governability which I am not ashamed to define an idea of a regime. I am referring to the idea that government professionals sit, now and always, who keep away everything that is multiform and is the expression of society, because political and governmental mediation, with the little money available, comes first of all. That is what this is all about, and for that reason I cannot give a positive opinion on the Franceschini bill. The other day I mentioned Scalfaro, according to which Parliament used to speak. Well, the fact that we are discussing, and then voting today, the film bill is not neutral. The very simple reason - it must be made clear in this House - is that the Government is not ready to discuss the measure on justice. The general discussion has ended; the substance of the amendments should be included, but the Government is not ready. For those who had not seen, with iPads and mobile phones, what is happening, this morning, in an interview, the Minister of Justice Orlando said basically that we will have to put trust because there is no majority, since the Verdinians will not support the measure and therefore the government risks. Soon after, the President of the Council, Renzi, said that in this case he would not want to put his trust in order not to slap the magistrates. Let's be serious! The problem is very simple: the majority is not there. Without the group's willing set up by Senator Verdini, the majority is in danger. Just a little mischief from some PD senator, who legitimately holds different positions on the prescription, that most fail. For this reason we proceed with the reversal of the agenda, and all this, as well as the choice to replace the Di Giorgi bill with the Franceschini measure, is part of a way of governing the country. We are not in front of a Parliament that demands too much or that wastes time. We are in front of a government that makes and dissolves and always puts itself at the center of the scene with absolutely unsatisfactory results. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before this House, which is the subject of a long analysis and discussion in the 7th Commission, proposes a general and comprehensive revision of the legislation on the cinema and audiovisual sector. Originally it also contained rules relating to live entertainment, which the Commission proposed to extrapolate as this was considered to be a sector worthy of as much in-depth analysis. This proposal for deletion was also welcomed by various associations active in the sector that have communicated their sharing. The measure starts from the premise of competition with the new communication, entertainment and communication systems - in particular television broadcasting - which have created serious difficulties for the sector, which therefore needs to draw new life from more topical rules and, above all, needs new investments and incentives to stimulate competitiveness. It is an area, that of cinema, which could contribute in an important way to the revival of the Italian economy, as well as offering new stimuli of cultural growth. The measures envisaged under the draft law are necessary in view of the difficult economic and financial environment of the national audiovisual sector. During the past few months, the 7th Commission, with a long series of hearings, consulted all stakeholders, including film and audiovisual producers' associations and the main television broadcasters, to photograph the critical aspects of the Italian situation in the European and global context, and then acquired the views of the operators. The various draft laws proposed were, therefore, replaced by the government's public finance link, which summarized the many proposals, but above all the demands and needs of the sector. From here came a text widely shared and refined by the work in the Commission, which certainly goes in the direction of removing the existing criticalities and giving new impetus to this sector of great importance in the Italian cultural landscape; a sector in which Italy has always distinguished itself in the international panorama. In the measure before the Assembly today there are strong innovations in the tools of public support to the industry of the film and audiovisual sector, creating a fund and introducing tax incentives and automatic contributions that unify the current resources of the FUS cinema and tax credit. There is a substantial increase in resources and there is a profound innovation of the rules. In short, it can be said that the measure creates a certainty of resources and timing for their use. Several articles of the bill lay down new rules that, while in the necessary guarantee of correctness and transparency, introduce simplistic aspects in the use of the tax credit measure. With the Cinema Fund, resources increase by 60%: 150 million more and the introduction of a virtuous self-financing mechanism directly fueled by the revenue from the erial activities of programming and television broadcasting, distribution and film screening. Part of the Fund, up to 15%, is devoted each year to the support of first and second works, young authors, start-ups, small halls. Contributions to festivals and quality reviews are strengthened. From 2017 onwards, a fixed percentage of IRES and VAT revenue from these sectors will be allocated directly to the financing of cinema and audiovisual. In this way the production chain is encouraged to invest and innovate and there is less uncertainty about the funds for cinema. The new Fund will never fall below the limit of EUR 400 million per year. The new law then addresses a second equally important theme, which is the strengthening of the circuit of cinemas and multifunctional halls, introducing a fund of 100 million in three years for the reactivation of closed and disused cinemas, with particular regard to the rooms present in smaller municipalities, less than 15,000 inhabitants, and for the realization of new rooms. The creation of the Fund is accompanied by the possibility of entrusting to the regions, as competent in the field of urban planning, the possibility of providing building standards also derogation from the urbanist instruments in order to encourage and encourage the restructuring and strengthening of the rooms. A third point to highlight is the establishment of the public register of cinematographic and audiovisual works. The measure replaces the original prediction of a reform of the public register provided for by the Law on Copyright with legislative delegation and contains stringent measures to ensure effective controls and maximum transparency in the use of public resources for cinema and audiovisual purposes through the register. The rule also provides for the free internet consultation of all information relating to the allocation of public contributions, whether state or regional, provided by local authorities or institutions of the European Union. The question of working relations in the film and audiovisual sector is handled in the form of delegation to the Government. The aim is to dictate a systematic and unitary discipline, with the appropriate differentiations related to the specific field of activity, the employment relationship, the professions and the professions in the film and audiovisual sector. This is absolutely urgent in order to finally give workers in the sector adequate discipline, avoiding the continuation of unfair and discriminatory situations resulting from the lack of a clear and stable framework of reference that recognises the dignity of the sector and is the prerequisite for the consequent social security cover. The rules are also required, inter alia, by the adoption of new provisions relating to work in general. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Ferrara Elena]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first objection - as has already been said in this House - is that this is a delegated legislative text. Each time my colleagues and I are following up on parliamentary work in which proposals are drawn up which are then reset by a Premier who gets a delegation to decide what he wants and sends us back a text on which we cannot vote because it puts trust. This is not the case, but the case with amendments to the penal code. And, in fact, we are examining the provision on cinema because you did not agree on the other law delegates to Mr. Renzi. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That already puts me in a position to say enough. That puts me in a position to say enough! Close Parliament, because it is so useful to ratify two "advisors" to the Premier on how to manage - probably clientele as it will be - money to finance cinema, which is an industry that would need public funding, but above all it would need to become an industry freed from the state assistance that it has been linked to since 1948. Well, that's the only reason I'm telling you, gentlemen, it's useless to sit here and argue. The second reason why I tell you that discussing is useless is as follows: I live in Turin, I am a worker in the film industry and I made the films. I've been here for three years and seeing how you've dealt with cultural issues and whatnot, I'm sure that this money and this mechanism will generate, even for the famous reinstatement of the commission, a system of tips for friends. Outside they are slaughtered: the big producers and small producers are slaughtered, all because they are waiting for the tip from the state. Stop! Cinema needs more. It would take a twenty-year project for the revival of culture. You PD have also done studies on this. It would take a raise of 5% of GDP. The film industry is one of those that make the most because for every euro invested in the film industry can return 6 or even 10, clean, with an incredible induced logistics, relaunching tourism, the image of the country and the workers involved. But no, there isn't this plan and not because you're not capable but because you don't want to do it, because with this system you keep customers. What do you think, that I didn't see how the cinema ended, for example, in Turin when you put the same people to direct the Turin Festival and then the Venice Festival, or how you managed the Lumiq, a theater of historical pose that came from the FERT theatres of the fifties, that was devastated? You think I didn't see the end of Cinecittà? This is not only about PD but also about previous governments. Your friends, like Abbot, have devastated a symbol like Cinecittà, one of the most famous in the world, which is now used for a playground for more in failure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's not talk nonsense then. Mr Mineo is right, who in fact left the PD: this is a system in which, in the end, everything is concentrated in the hands of a person who will decide who to favor among his friends. I'm sure there won't be any new emerging directors if you keep doing this. We will continue to finance movies, sometimes good but often poor, of people to whom a producer would never make a movie because they don't bring anything home. Because then cinema, I repeat, is an industry so it's okay to enhance the cultural product but it has to march alone and to do this you have to create conditions. Today you believe that Antonioni, Rossellini, Visconti, Germi and other directors are not born, not only authors, but not so: they are born, only today to make a film you have to be friends with PD or someone else. That's the truth! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So it's useless to copy French models or other models because the problem is not just about models but about people and you're dishonest. I don't think anything good will ever come out of this law, at least for those who aren't your friends. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u27	Senator Ferrara Elena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, cinematographers are sometimes art, but they are always industry. Cito Mario Soldati, Piemontese like me, and like Airola, because he summarizes, with the usual irony, and fully grasps the sense of the bill, connected to the budget maneuver 2015-2017. AIROLA (M5S). Go to the set one day instead of saying these words! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you've already intervened. Now let the coworkers talk! Please, Senator Ferrara. Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). A bill, I said, that we are debating today in this House (civilly, I hope). The report by my colleague Mr Di Giorgi, whom I thank for his valuable and intense work, has already highlighted an issue which is fundamental and which I would like to take up again (the report was carried out on 3 August). State aid to this area of creative production is, according to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, one of the cultural exceptions. Cinema and audiovisual, in fact, are considered fundamental means of artistic expression, cultural formation and social aggregation able to strengthen and convey the identity of a community. A few weeks after the incardination of the measure under consideration, the proposal of Minister Franceschini, which, in agreement with the associations of category ANEM, ANICA and ANEC, allows access to the cinemas participating in the project with a calm ticket for only two euros on the second Wednesday of the month from September. So we've already had the first edition. "Cinema2day", which recalls the cultural policies to encourage museum visits and the 500 euros available for the eighteen-year-olds who have already been recalled here, has already obtained over 3,000 admissions. Certainly the familiarity with film language is greater than in other sectors of performing arts, as we are also told by statistics related to the younger bands. Good idea to strengthen the loyalty to the big screen; just to start again to come out and revive a collective enjoyment; significant to encourage living and sharing emotions; fundamental to repopulate the rooms of proximity and, consequently, to give life to the more or less peripheral neighborhoods of our urban realities, including the small municipalities where cinema, where it has resisted, is often the only cultural garrison, as has already been said in this general discussion The Government has therefore decided to invest fully in this area, increasing resources by 60%, considering it an essential part of our culture, capable of conveying our national identity. A story of great beauty among the many of our creative ingenuity. It does so with a rule that intervenes in a systemic way on cinema and audiovisual, intervening on the entire chain, from the authors to the managers of the rooms, assigning the competences to the State and the Regions, strengthening the experience of the films commission, establishing the Higher Council of the cinema and the audiovisual, and focusing on quality, innovation and internationalization We know that the will and proposal of the Government, with this connected to the budget maneuver 2015-2017, have crossed and positively contaminated with the bill n. 1835 of parliamentary initiative, of which I am convinced signatory. The final text, now under discussion, is the result of a convergent will of Parliament and Government. It was built through an open dialogue with so many stakeholders, which during the hearings made it possible to further improve the measures contained in it. Among the many strengths, starting from the support system that allows to stabilize the annual financial allocations for the sector thanks to the Fund for the development of investments in cinema and audiovisual, the FUS cinema and tax credit are redesigned. The fund is fed on the French model and we have already mentioned several times how it will operate: as from 2017 a percentage of the IRES and VAT revenues of these sectors, concerning cinematography in the broadest sense, will be allocated to the financing of the new fund, which will never fall below EUR 400 million. Up to 18 percent and a minimum of 15 percent (but they deserve even more) of the funds is dedicated each year to the support of first and second works, young authors, start-ups, small halls located in countries less than 15,000 inhabitants. A guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises is also being set up; contributions to festivals and quality reviews are being strengthened; an extraordinary plan is planned for the digitisation of film and audiovisual heritage. In paying attention to the whole chain - and this is a strong point - it also does not forget the valorization of cinema culture, finding innovative formulas to connect with the Ministry of Education, University and Research. A number of colleagues have already mentioned this aspect, I refer to Article 9, which deals with the substance of the training aspects, both in relation to the specific professionalism involved and in line with the school reform law in the valorization of artistic and multimedia languages, also technologically advanced, for the training of citizens who are producers and critical users of culture. We are talking about a minimum of 12 million which, per year, is provided for in Article 25, i.e. 3% of the fund. We know that they are already active in planning and we know that with the three legislative decrees provided for in Law No 107 of 2013, and in particular that on the humanistic culture and enhancement of the arts, we intend to strengthen the training offer on these multimedia performing languages. Let us say that these measures are being taken. The legislation also addresses the issue of the state of containers, i.e. buildings that are affected by various measures aimed at restructuring, also through volumetric extensions in derogation from urbanist instruments (of course it enters into the specific), and the creation of new rooms and multipurpose spaces. For this reason, 120 million are allocated from 2017 until 2021 and even in this case the municipalities with less than 15,000 inhabitants have a share of the fund intended for them. It is recognized a great value also to the historical rooms and of particular cultural interest: I think of the cinemas of the National Museum of Cinema "Fondazione Maria Adriana Prolo" of Turin and the film library of Bologna. Finally, I recall an important aspect, that of the protection of minors: the Government undertakes to adopt, within twelve months of the date of entry into force of the law, specific legislative decrees, inspired by the principles of freedom and responsibility, both of the entrepreneurs of the film and audiovisual sector, as well as of the main educational agents (this has not been mentioned, I think I have heard no one), among which in the first place the family, and replacing the procedures currently in force by a mechanism of responsibility of the operators and careful supervision of the institutions oriented to the effective protection of minors. A final remark should be reserved to the decision (which I believe to be correct) to propose to the House the deletion of Rule 34 on the new code of live entertainment. This will be a fundamental opportunity to exploit a sector that has long been waiting for new regulatory measures; an area that must be given a high humanistic value that must cross - as I said - the training policies that our society is in dire need of. Italy of singing, music, theater, dance and different performance expressions, even in comparison with the new technologies, has been launching its cry of pain for a long time because it does not see recognized its great potential, because it suffers from fragmentation due to the lack of a virtuous system, because it is confronted with a pathological impossibility of programming, needs measures of bureaucratic simplification, struggle to bring out its resources on the international level and more. We will immediately resume the listening work of the different stakeholders in order to amplify and give more attention, even in terms of support, to the measures contained in that delegation to the Government, also foreseen as related to the financial maneuver. The 7th Senate Commission has already worked to investigate the state of the art (how ever correct this definition) also with regard to the welfare of workers in the sector. He did it specifically for music, but of course the problem of the show in general will be addressed. We know how complex the work awaits us, but we will deal with it with the spirit it has animated in our journey towards cinema and audiovisual. On the contrary, the outcome of this link, which we will also follow closely in the stages of the legislative decrees with the opinions that we will render in the Commission, encourages us to address the link on live entertainment. It will be another challenge and the 7th Commission will certainly commit itself to this issue. That is why I thank President Andrea Marcucci and also my colleagues who have worked so hard on cinema, inviting them to do so also for the live show. This measure will have positive implications on the economic level, but together with the law on cinema will certainly be an operation able to aesthetize (the opposite of anesthetizing) our community, because it is able to create contexts facilitating relationships, inclusiveness, multiculturality, listening and free creativity, signs and emotions that bind performing and public. In short, to say it with Tonino Guerra, great artist, poet and screenwriter, if we learned to speak, the animals would understand us better. The images on the screen live because they are looked at. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u29	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u30	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u31	Mr President, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for the debate we have been able to have; an interesting debate in which a number of indications have emerged and also some incorrect facts which I would now like to clarify. It is not true that what is being discussed is a bill of delegation: it is a text full of content, then on some issues (few) we decided to give a delegation and the Government assumed it. The bill, however, is full of content, as you have seen. My colleagues in the Commission are well aware of this, but my colleagues who have not followed this measure directly have also been able to see how much content there is and how we can really talk about a reform that is here on a solid basis. We have a movie reform that puts order in that system, about which Senator Giro also spoke, which it was actually necessary to put hand. We have done so and also with courage, through a very long path. In this Chamber I heard everyone say that a parliamentary path had initially been started and then the Government arrived which, by acting authoritarian, brought its own measure. It's not like that. Maybe it would be good for everyone to remember a little better how things turned out. What happened? The measure was linked to the law of stability and, therefore, it was a law in fieri already financed and with times of examination much faster than those of a normal parliamentary measure. What have we done in the Commission? Waiting for the government to follow up on its commitment to proceed with a colleague, both for the cinema and for the live show, we started by drawing on the material present in the Commission and using the draft laws we had (one was mine, the other was Senator Giro). The President wanted to start this path, which has been a long one. We have held many hearings, as has been said. If we had to audition later, it would certainly have taken us longer and perhaps we would not be here today to examine the measure. So, there was a connection. Everyone can see it as they please, but those who have worked on this measure know that there has been a connection with the Government. In addition, ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, it must also be said with great honesty that the Government has accepted many of the amendments which referred to the path taken in the Commission and to all the very interesting ideas which emerged in the hearings. You will see amendments to the rapporteur's signature, because in the course of the debate in the Commission there have been so many very useful ideas which have been transformed into amending proposals which, if adopted, will be part of our law. The Government has been very helpful and this must be acknowledged. Surely everyone has to do their job, but if we don't recognize this, we don't talk about the things that have happened. We have had a continuous and very, very intense relationship with the Government, which, by providing serious collaboration, has accepted many of our proposals. That is the reality. Then, if we want to tell another movie, let's do it (so much more that we are looking at, precisely, the measure on cinema), but the reality was this. Mr Mineo, you have worked very hard in the Commission to examine the measure. We have spoken and discussed and you have been present at many hearings. I therefore believe that the so negative judgment you give on the product - let us call it that - that we are about to vote is a little unfair. We have given a lot, but a lot of attention to young people; we have put funding into the field for difficult works; we have valued films and arthouse halls. We made an assessment related to the fact that cinema is culture and, therefore, all that could be done to achieve a sharing on these elements was done. As far as young directors and authors are concerned - as has been said here - we have given funding to all those who want to put energy into the field to renovate cinemas and to reopen cinemas; we have also paid attention to small municipalities. Then there is the tax credit. Certainly cinema is an industry; but we want it to be an industry, a cultural industry, indeed a cultural enterprise (this is the term that we now use), a great cultural enterprise of which the country must be worthy and must also be proud. Compared to this, the six tax credits, ranging from 15 to 40 percent, when did we ever have them? There had certainly been initiatives, but we have now reordered this whole system. Compared to all this, I believe that we can really be satisfied. Of course I am. I would like to thank my fellow Members and particularly my colleagues for their opposition, who have done a very serious job in the Commission and of which many amendments have been accepted in the text which we are now going to vote on. So I really thank everyone, first and foremost the President of the 7th Commission, who has given me confidence. From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the result we are proposing is a positive result, of which this Parliament can be proud when we adopt the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u32	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u33	Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to highlight the quality of the debate that has developed so far in this House, including from various points of view, and to reiterate the work of cooperation between the Government and the Commission and the improvement that has been made to the text, also thanks to the work carried out in the Commission, by implementing amending proposals from various political forces. I reserve the right to speak during the next debate which will take place in this House on the various amendments that will take place. With regard to the significant excerpt of the part concerning the live performance with respect to the original proposal of this provision, I confirm the Government's will to maintain the status of connected to the bill that will deal with this matter. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u34	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u35	Madam President, I come from Amendment 2.3, which was tabled to the Commission and which was intended to define the documentary film. In the Commission it seemed impossible to find a definition of documentary films. In fact, the amendment was rejected because none of the definitions we had discussed, not even the one we had finally proposed as the 5 Star Movement, seemed to be acceptable, because it seemed that the documentary film was indefinable. On the other hand, we read the rapporteur's amendment 2,500 (to which the night obviously led advice), in which we find the definition of documentary films; a definition that we do not fully like. Above all, we wonder why, when the 5 Star Movement put forward this proposal, the rapporteur, the officials of the Ministry's legislative office and the Government have argued that a documentary work was indefinable; and then the rapporteur's amendment emerges. It almost seems that it was annoying that an acceptable proposal could arise from the opposition. I would ask the rapporteur, then, to review her opinions and, if anything, to come up with a definition that can understand how good there is in our amendment 2.3 and amendment 2,500, which - I repeat - is not all good. Again in the field of definitions, we proposed, with amendment 2.5, a definition of feature films and short films, because often festivals and competitions are organized on the basis of a distinction between these two types of cinematographic works. Therefore, as we wanted to define film works more precisely in this draft law, it seemed sensible to introduce this type of definition as well. Amendment 2.9 proposes the definition of start-up in the film sector. This amendment also seemed to us to be of common sense and useful, since in the measure start-ups are included within parameters for some benefits that the Ministry will provide for the creation and reproduction of film works. Since the start-up is clearly and expressly mentioned in this text, thanks also to our amendment proposal, we are asking the rapporteur and the government to take this amendment into account in the House and also to introduce a definition of start-up. If, then, the definition proposed by us were not entirely pleasing to the rapporteur and the Government, at least I would ask them to accept the transformation of our amendment into an agenda to take charge of that definition. Finally, I had tabled the agenda for G2,300, which was actually overtaken by the rapporteur's amendment, since it committed the Government to defining the documentary film (and at this point I renew the invitation to the rapporteur).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u36	Madam President, I agree with the request just made by my colleague to extend the definition of documentary, which actually seems quite reductive. I would also like to explain Amendment No 2,200, which calls for research and experimentation films to be considered as the term "film" for cultural purposes, including research and experimentation films, which are not the only ones. Here, too, we would like to point to an integration which considers the issue more broadly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u37	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u38	Madam President, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 2,208 and 2,500, while I am against all the other amendments. Of course, I would like to call on my colleagues, wherever possible and useful for them, to withdraw these amendments. Clearly, it is always uncomfortable to express an opinion against the amendments tabled by my fellow Members. I add a small consideration on the question of the definitions of documentary: Senator Montevecchi, you know that we have worked very hard on the definition of documentary and we have dedicated some sessions to it, because it was very difficult. A definition of documentary has not been found in Europe either. The formula you are proposing is very discursive. As everyone agrees that the documentary is an expressive form, which is also reported within the measure and therefore needed some definition, we have really struggled to identify one. Its definition is very descriptive and does not fit, in our opinion, a regulatory text. So, I thought of introducing my definition, doing in these last few days a work that however collects what was in your text, but expressed in a way that for me is of greater satisfaction. That's how I explained the arcane. Finally, I am in favour of the agendas for G2,300 and G2,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u39	I am in agreement with those expressed by the rapporteur, pointing out that for the G2,300 agenda, at the first signature of Senator Montevecchi, I believe that the first part of the device is exceeded by the definition contained in Amendment 2,500. Therefore, if they consider it appropriate, I invite the presenters to rephrase the text of the agenda by removing the first part of the device, from the words "to provide" to the words "documentary."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u40	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u43	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I too ask the Government to reconsider, and I also ask that the amendments to Article 2 tabled by my Group be accepted. If it is true - and it is - that it has been precisely indicated what is a work before, a second work, an animation work, an audiovisual work of Italian nationality and so on, so there has been a clarification, I absolutely do not understand why a distinction is not made between the feature film and the short film. This is fundamental, because the technique and the modalities of the one are completely different from the other; in fact, as my colleague Montevecchi also recalled, there are even festivals specific to both. So I really can't understand - and we haven't understood it yet - why the government doesn't accept this amendment. By the way, what's the cost? There is no expense, it is just a common sense amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u44	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,200, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,201 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.202, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,500.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u47	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I do not know whether it is possible to make a dissenting explanation of vote by my Group, because there was no explanation of vote by my Group on this amendment, but I would still like to say that I voted against it, because the definition contained in it is ridiculous at least; just ask Zavoli for a decent definition. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u48	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2,500 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.3 and 2.203 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,300, tabled by Senator Liuzzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.204, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.9, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.205, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.06 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,207, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.208, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from Senator Montevecchi]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.209, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.210, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Montevecchi, do you accept the proposal to amend the agenda G2,300, expunging the points that have been indicated by the Government, why already included in the text? Montevecchi (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G2,300 (text 2) and G2,200 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u49	Madam President, Amendment 3,200 calls for the adjective "qualified" to be added after the words "training paths" to be added, because it is not said that all training courses are. The other amendments tabled to Article 3 call once again for consideration to be given to film production for disabled people and technologies that are already recognised at international level.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u50	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u51	Madam President, I am against all the amendments to Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u52	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u53	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,200, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senators Montevecchi and Serra. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.8, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,300, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,301, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3302 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,203 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.204, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u54	Madam President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u55	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u56	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,200, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 5, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government are referred.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u57	I am against both amendments 5.3 and 5.0.1 and on the G5300 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u58	The opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u59	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Montevecchi, do you insist on voting on the agenda for G5,300? Montevecchi (M5S). Yes, Mr President, I would ask that it be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5,300, presented by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u62	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, just so that you remain in the wrong act to vote: my vote was against.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u63	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.1, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 8, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u64	Madam President, I want to explain the meaning of amendments 8.2 and 818. Within this measure has been inserted a norm totally in distonia with the measure itself because it has urbanistic character, placing a constraint regarding the re-use of cinemas. Well, it seems to me that this is a completely absurd constraint, inter alia by entering into a competence that is of the Regions and not of the State. I propose, therefore, to extrapolate at least the diction "introduce" - which is a categorical imperative towards the regions - and to replace it with "introduce" and to eliminate libraries, which have nothing to do with cinemas, from this prediction.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u65	Madam President, we are in complete agreement with Senator Conte and, in fact, we too have tabled a deleterious amendment to paragraphs 1 and 2 for the same reasons that have been explained with precision and clarity by my colleague. We ask the government representative and the rapporteur to reconsider.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u66	Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 8,17 (text 2) because the content has been absorbed by a previous article.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u67	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u68	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u69	Madam President, since I will vote in favour of amendment 8.8, where this is the issue that Senator Montevecchi also raised, it could probably be useful to withdraw amendment 8.4, however, my opinion is against, as is also the case with amendment 8.5. I am in favour of identical amendments 8.8, 8.9 and 8.10. The opinion was opposed to Amendments 8, 6, 8, 14 and 8,15. I am in favour of identical amendments 8,18 and 8,19. I also welcome the G8300 and G8301 agendas. I am against the G8.302 agenda because it seems too specific. On the agenda G8.303 I propose a rewording aimed at eliminating the first part of the device up to the words "cultural presidents," which is an innovative definition that I do not feel like accepting. As far as the second part is concerned, I am in favour. The opinion would therefore be favourable if the first part of the device were to be removed, from the word "where" to the words "cultural presides." Finally, I would like to express a favourable opinion on the G8304 and G8305 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u70	Madam President, I would like to express my assent with some clarification. On Amendment 8.8, in the light of the changes made to the text and in view of the reflections of Senator Conte, also considering the excerpt of the show - here we talk about theatres - the Government returns to the Assembly. For the rest of the amendments, the opinions of the Government are in line with those of the rapporteur. As far as agendas are concerned, I agree with the rapporteur's view that the Government is only willing to accept the G.8.303 agenda in its second commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u71	Amendment 8.2 has been withdrawn. Senator, Mr Montevecchi, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation to withdraw Amendment 8.4? Montevecchi (M5S). No, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 8.4, which is identical to amendment 8.5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.4, tabled by Senators Montevecchi and Serra, identical to amendment 8.5, tabled by Senator Liuzzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.8, tabled by Senators Count and Esposito Giuseppe, essentially identical to amendments 8.9, tabled by Senator Centinario and other Senators, and 8.10, tabled by Senator Liuzzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.6 is therefore precluded. Amendment 8.13 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.14, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators, identical to amendment 8.15, tabled by Senator Liuzzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.17 (text 2) has been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.18, tabled by Senators Conte and Esposito Giuseppe, identical to amendment 8.19, tabled by Senator Centinario and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G8,300 and G8,301 will not be put to the vote. I would ask the authors if they would insist on voting on the G8.302 agenda. BLUNDO (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.302, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Montevecchi, do you accept the proposed rewording for the G8.303 agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u72	Madam President, I would like to ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government whether it would be possible to keep both commitments, by adopting for the first time, which I have been proposed to expunge, the formula: "to consider whether it is appropriate to expunge."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u73	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the rewording of the agenda G8.303, proposed by Senator Montevecchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u74	Mr President, I believe that the Government must respond to this. I would maintain my previous opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u75	Mr President, we believe that we do not accept the agenda with this wording because we would create a new legal qualification, that of cultural garrisons, which we consider to be an ultronea in relation to the text of the law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u76	Senator Montevecchi, do you therefore accept the proposal for rewording the agenda of the G8.303 tabled by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government? Montevecchi (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G 8,303 (text 2), G8,304 and G8,305 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 8 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8a. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8-a. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 9, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled which are intended to be presented. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u77	I am in favour of Amendment 9,200. On the remaining amendments, I make a call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am in favour of the G9300 agenda. On the G9.200 agenda, the opinion supports the following rewording: in the operative part, replace the words "to make" with "to assess the appropriateness of "to make."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u78	I am in agreement with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u79	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 9,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,200, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9,201, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 9,202 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9,203 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9,204.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u82	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I just wanted to point out, even though the rapporteur has said otherwise, that there was a call for specific and qualified involvement of the actual holders of professional knowledge in the sector. If we are to do education in cinema and audiovisual within schools, we cannot continue to regard teachers as all-logists of everything that passes from their curriculum function assigned to a discipline and also give these specificities, especially in higher-level schools. Our proposal calls for the qualifying involvement of those working in the cinema sector and therefore I invite you to reflect on this vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u83	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9,204, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G9300 agenda will not be put to the vote. I would ask those who tabled the G9200 agenda if they accept the rapporteur's proposal for a rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u84	Madam President, in this case I do not accept turning a commitment into an assessment of the opportunity. The events of Cinecittà are known to everyone and have been dragging for a long time. The government should already have thoroughly assessed what is happening in Cinecittà, and should commit, once and for all, to end a truly shameful situation for a place that has given us so much in the world, at image level and much more. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If the government doesn't want to help us, reason has a very precise name and surname, which has already been made by my colleague Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u87	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would simply like to subscribe to this agenda and to make the government think about this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u88	I see several hands raised between the benches of the Five Star Movement. The Presidency notes that the entire Group subscribes to the G9200 agenda. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.200, presented by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 9 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9-a, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u89	Madam President, amendment 9- bis.201 calls for the following words to be added: "Favouring, in agreement with the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism and the Ministry of Economic Development, the national and international growth of the Italian film and audiovisual industry while respecting the continuity of employment". I make this request because paragraph 3 does not specify how we really want to promote the development of the film industry. Therefore, if possible, I would ask that this definition be included.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u90	Madam President, Amendment 9-a.301 aims to make the work of the Cinema and Audiovisual Board more transparent and public. We believe that a body like this should be able to make public its work on its website (because it is hoped that it will have a website that can be consulted and accessible) so that, for transparency and respect for citizens who want to update themselves on the activities of this body that aims to be an important body with a fundamental role for the cinema sector, information is transparent, public and accessible. On the other hand, with amendment 9-a-302, we have set ourselves the concern of giving a programmed frequency to the consultations that the Higher Council of Cinema and Audiovisual should have with the operators of the sector, and therefore with all the people involved in the film industry, both from an industrial and cultural point of view. Since this provision is absent in the draft law, with amendment 9- bis.302 we have allowed ourselves to make a proposal, which is clearly perfectable, but in our opinion a six-monthly frequency could be useful to enable this body to carry out a fruitful work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u91	The opinion is opposed to all the amendments to Article 9-a.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u92	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u93	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 9-a.200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-a.200, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-a.201, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.300, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-a.202, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-a.301, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.302, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.203, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.303, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-bis.204, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-a.205, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.304, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 9- bis.305, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 9-a.206 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-a.306, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-bis.207, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.208, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9-a.307.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u96	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I would ask the House to consider whether it would be appropriate to include the provisions of this amendment and, therefore, to vote in favour of it. Amendment 9- bis.307 merely provides for the competent parliamentary committees to deliver an opinion on the appointments of the members of the Cinema and Audiovisual Board made by the Minister. I would remind you that the parliamentary committees are called upon to issue opinions on so many types of appointments, which involve many bodies and ministries. We therefore wonder why the parliamentary committees should be cut off with regard to this new body, the new institution of which will involve a whole series of new appointments. In conclusion, I would ask Members to consider this and vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u97	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.307, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 9-a.209 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.210, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.308, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.309, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.310, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 9-a. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.0.200, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 10, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u98	Madam President, I would like to reflect on Amendment 10,202, which refers to paragraph 3. In paragraph 3, letter b), where the birth and growth of new authors and new enterprises is encouraged, it is requested to insert the words "linked to the territory". This is important, because we encourage the creation of new companies, but it is important that these are linked to the territory for new productions. This is so that there is an incentive for localization in the territories for the potential they can express. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u99	I am against all the amendments and the G10300 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u100	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u101	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,200. Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. AIROLA (M5S). When there are no prescriptions involved you are there! [[Ironic applause from Senator Airola]] Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 2287, 649 and 1835 president. I put to the vote Amendment 10,200, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (Brusio). It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for counterproof, since there has been some confusion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,201. Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 2287, 649 and 1835 president. I put to the vote Amendment 10,201, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,202. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 2287, 649 and 1835 president. I put to the vote Amendment 10,202, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,203.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u102	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u103	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 7.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u104	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,203. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is not supported.) I put to the vote Amendment 10,203, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,204.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u105	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u106	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u109	Borioli (PD). Madam President, I would like to mention in this House the figure of Senator Riccardo Triglia, who was missing just the same day as President Ciampi, of whom Senator Triglia was undersecretary when Ciampi was President of the Council. Riccardo Triglia was Senator of the Republic from 1979 to 1994... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u110	Senator Borioli, I apologize.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u111	Colleagues, there is a commemoration going on, so who wants to stay in this Chamber is silent, and who wants to get out. Please, Senator Borioli, continue. Borioli (PD). Riccardo Triglia has been Undersecretary of Finance in the Ciampi Government, he has long been national president of the National Association of Municipalities of Italy, president of the Union of local authorities, member of the bicameral commission for the reforms led by Aldo Bozzi. These are just some of the very important tasks that Senator Triglia has held at national and European level during his intense political life. Riccardo Triglia was born in Casale Monferrato in 1937 and throughout his political life he remained consistent with the inspiration of the Christian Democrat left that he had in Piedmont, with figures such as Donat Cattin and Bodrato, a point of strength and absolute reference, also at national level, characterized by the peculiar and original attention to the social question, to the themes related to the experience of the factory and trade unionism of Catholic matrix. Riccardo Triglia was a leading exponent of this political and cultural milieu, while at the same time making a valuable connection between the national and the local levels, helping to form a new ruling class, which was then the protagonist of decisive political battles between the eighties and nineties of the last century. I remember one of them: the one related to the story of Eternit, asbestos in Casale Monferrato, which precisely from that political core of local administrators had the first and important cue. Riccardo Triglia was at the same time, stubbornly, a man of the territory and local communities, in a dimension of the political action cultivated at the top of the Italian and European municipal associationism, which has pursued and continued also at the local level, dedicating itself to the Association of Municipalities of Monferrato, which was a bit 'his creature, in which we can now read both the stubborn defense of the role and functions of the local government, as well as the previewing intuition, particularly significant in a reality characterized by the intense administrative fragmentation, that the defence of the role and functions of the local government can take place only in carrying out those functions in an associated way. We know how topical this issue is. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention one particular aspect of Riccardo Triglia, linked to local political experience, of which I myself have witnessed in the past years. In the second half of the eighties, in some non-secondary centers of the Alexandrian, and among these Casale Monferrato, he developed a significant meeting, right on the ground of the local government, between the Communist Party and the Christian Democracy and Riccardo Triglia was just one of the protagonists of this meeting. I like to see in that experience, which broke, not without generating then some disassembling, the formulas that were canonical, such as the pentapartite and the Juntas of the left, an anticipation from below, a background plot of the encounter between the reformist left and democratic Catholicism, which a decade later culminated in the birth of the Olive tree and, after another ten years, in the founding of the Democratic Party. For all that Senator Triglia has done, I would like to remind him in this House, yet again addressing him with a respectful and grateful greeting. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u112	The Presidency joins and thanks Senator Borioli for the memory of Senator Triglia. I ask the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u115	ZANONI (PD). Madam President, in a municipality of 5,000 souls in Piedmont the mayor refuses to celebrate a civil union and does not want to delegate that function either. The mayor knows that he cannot do so: a public administrator cannot refuse to apply a state law democratically passed by Parliament. There is an omission of legal acts, a crime punishable by imprisonment from six months to two years. If you do not want to apply the Italian laws, you can resign as mayor: we give him immediately a advice. So, if you know, and you don't want to delegate, what happens? Do you need to prove to someone that you don't want to do it? Or is he just looking for publicity and notoriety? Obviously it is already in all the newspapers and that is why I do not quote it: I do not remember his name because I do not want to bring a drop to his mill. Unfortunately, however, this is not an isolated case. But the opposites have to make a point of it: the law is there and it is the task of the judiciary to enforce it. It is clear that the couple can turn elsewhere, in a neighbouring municipality where the mayor is more available, but all the struggles for rights have obtained this? The law on civil unions gives certainty to rights, it is not a possibistic law linked to the goodwill of someone who applies it. It is paradoxical: think if tomorrow morning a mayor decided not to give citizenship to a person who has the qualifications to request it or the day after tomorrow he asked the registry not to register the births of children of immigrants and the next day he decided not to apply the resolutions approved in City Council that he does not share. It is clear that it is not possible to go on this slope. ==References====External links==* Official website Of course, under these conditions, they have some difficulty taking off. The numbers are small and, among other things, always identify a Italy at two speeds: until now the civil unions have been twenty-six in Milan, nineteen in Turin, nine in Rome and one in Naples. The numbers are small, because still many do not have the courage to use their right to the full. We have made a law that gives rights, that helps the development of a culture of rights and tolerance but, of course, the mayor in question shows that much still remains to be done. In fact, mayors like these make us step back, because some couples frightened by the possible publicity that can be given to their union think twice before asking for their right. Many couples would like to be treated exactly like the couples who may want to marry in confidentiality, simplicity. Many couples live together and have no intention of getting married and, in the same way, not all couples feel the need to unite civilly. The law also regulates the rights of cohabitation and this is another very important part of the law, to which not enough emphasis has been given because it has been overwhelmed by the great publicity given to civil unions. Know, however, this mayor that this, like the other couples, will not be left alone in claiming a right that he cannot deny. He makes a point: he is a mayor of an Italian municipality and, as such, he has no power to legislate, but only to apply the laws. If you don't want to do what the law requires you to do, resign. We certainly won't miss him. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u118	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, we are dealing with the recent decision by RAI to close the television broadcast called "Ambiente Italia": a historical broadcast that is more than twenty-five years old. He decides from a point of view to close it and deny all Italians a valuable heritage of environmental information. It is a decision that, on the one hand, is not surprising; on the other hand, it is surprising that the decision does not even take into account the share - the god share - since the broadcast has good ratings. Therefore, it seems obvious - sadly, painfully obvious - that RAI wants to reduce, both for duration and for location, a part of the information spaces dedicated to deepening on the environmental and cultural heritage of our country: two things that are and will be increasingly important. This, among other things, does not provide for a truly effective and viable alternative. As proof of this statement is the fact that the disappearance of "Ambiente Italia" follows the very recent decision on "Scala Mercalli", another very authoritative transmission always dedicated to the themes of climate, environment and renewable energy: all very uncomfortable issues that obviously do not want to be talked about in an objective and independent way. All this happens just as Italy, after the United States and China, is preparing to ratify the Paris climate agreements of December 2015, the famous COP21. All this happens while public opinion is increasingly sensitive to these issues, both at national and international level. Pope Francis now almost daily appeals to respect for the environment and for those who live in it, and it is strongly significant that to speak clearly and round about these issues must be a religious character, since politics does not speak of it in such a clear and precise manner. [[Applause from Senator Donno.]] For these reasons we ask the Government to comment on the matter, considering that, under the service contract, it is among the obligations of the concessionary society of the public radio and television service the preparation of cultural content programs, also with regard to environmental issues. In short, Madam President, give us back 'Environment Italy'! [[Applause from Senator Donno.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u119	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-688.ana.u120	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 29 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.45 p.m.
