ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u7	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2081, 14, 197, 239, 314, 909, 1211, 1231, 1316, 1360, 1745, 1763, 2069 and 2084. I would remind you that at its meeting on 14 October the President of the Second Permanent Commission, Senator Palma, reported on the progress of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u8	Mr President, the question of the preliminary ruling that I am presenting implies a preliminary clarification. It is justified by the obvious overlap, carried out by the Cirinna bill, between marriage and civil unions: identical the modalities of celebration, dissolution and impediments; perfectly symmetrical the rights and duties between spouses on the one hand and partners of civil union on the other. It would not have been necessary, but removes all doubts, the provision, which constitutes a real clause of equivalence, according to which, in any legislative text of primary or secondary rank, where the expressions "spouse" or "spouse" appear, to these must be considered totally equivalent to those of "partner" or "partners" of civil union. Not to mention article 2, paragraph 6, which disposes as to the choice of the surname, civilistic disposition this inevitably connected to the needs of a heterosexual family, because built on procreation and therefore on the transmission to the children of the surname of the parents. So of article 3, paragraph 1, and of the concept of fidelity, which has expanded over time with respect to the original borders, mainly coinciding with the exclusivity in sexual intercourse, and today is oriented in the broadest direction of the affective and sexual relationship in the context of family life. It thus takes on a publicistic importance also in the light of the civilistic institute of the presumption of paternity. As such it is placed within the heterosexual family. Similarly, it must be said, again with reference to Article 3, paragraph 2, and to the power of the parties to the civil union to establish the common residence, agreeing with each other the address of family life, since it is difficult to think that such a forecast is justified in a family context that cannot procreate. Non-dissimilar considerations may be made in relation to Article 4 (1) and the status of necessary heir recognised to the partner of the civil union, where the corresponding provision of the Civil Code identifies as such only ascendants, descendants and the spouse. In other words subjects related to de cuius by relationships of kinship related to the ability to procreate. The above reminders serve to demonstrate, even at this preliminary stage, the perfect coincidence between civil union and marriage and give justification to the preliminary constitutionality of the entire legislative text. In this regard, one of the crucial aspects of the debate on this point is certainly the judgment No 138 of the Constitutional Court in 2010. The fact that the Constitutional Court has written that the legislator is free to regulate civil unions between citizens of the same sex, according to equally free choices of legislative policy, certainly does not imply the erroneous conclusion that marriage and the family, referred to in Article 29 of the Constitution, are not only heterosexual in nature, thus being able to compete with homosexual unions. The idea that we oppose, that is, that of the absence of constitutional constraints as to the exclusive reference to the heterosexual basis of marriage, could be founded only if the Constitutional Court had affirmed the total freedom of the legislator in regulating the unions of homosexual subjects, even on the lines of marriage. But this is not the case, since the Court has not ruled out the possibility that some of the solutions may be unconstitutional, if examined. The letter of the chosen judgment No 138 of 2010 comforts this argument. In fact, if Article 29 of the Constitution did not contain any constraint on the modalities, it would have made no sense to the fact that the Constitutional Court clearly anticipated its review of the possible modalities for the implementation of civil unions. What, however, is clear from the text of the explanatory statement. Moreover, in these passages the Court makes express reference, but in terms of mere possibility, to homogeneous treatment between spouses and partners of civil unions, which thus making a significant difference, adding that it can exercise its constitutional control by means of the parameter of reasonableness, if invested by the question, in relation to the solutions followed by the legislator. This means, in even more explicit terms, that within the constitutional provision referred to in Article 29, marriages and civil union are not comparable. Moreover, the judgment in question must be read in full, since no partial consultation of the case-law is admissible. In this regard, we cannot underestimate the further significant statement contained in paragraph 9 below, according to which the Constituents, although they knew the homosexual issue (we are also allowed to add for having introduced on the point the non-negligible prohibition of discrimination for reasons of sex), when they wrote about family and marriage, they clearly had the exclusive reference to the heterosexual family. But those were good times; there was still the Communist Party. This cannot be overlooked, since it should entail an implicit and exclusive constitutionalization of the heterosexual family; with the corresponding exclusion, from the scope of Article 29 of the Constitution, of any other union. On the other hand, in the same direction that we outlined here, the classical expression of a family defined as a natural society, that is, as such founded on marriage, also helps. This expression, which excludes a context artificially created through the use of legal or physical solutions surrogacy of the natural conditions of the spouses and therefore of their inevitable heterosexuality because of the achievement of the priority objective constituted by procreation which, in fact, is naturally completely foreclosed to homosexual couples. Nor this time, apart from the frequently recalled sentence, can the integrating scope of subsequent Articles 30 and 31 of the Constitution be overlooked. While limiting these references to some essential aspects, it cannot be doubted that the meaning of these three provisions is completely unified. Therefore, if Article 29 regulates the family as a natural society founded on marriage, the following Article 30 affirms the duty and right of parents to maintain, educate and educate their children, even if they are born out of marriage. And, then, it is clear that the family is that natural society that, founded on marriage, is functional to the birth of children born of a heterosexual couple, holder of the right and the duty to educate, maintain and educate them. This implies, by overturning the plans of reasoning, that it cannot be considered a family a homosexual union to which the marriage regime which is exclusively linked to it by Article 29 of the Constitution cannot be transferred. Nor less significant in this regard is Article 31, which provides for facilitating and providing legislation exclusively for the benefit of the family with an eloquent reference to the protection of motherhood. This legislation finds its justification precisely in that procreation which is the exclusive prerogative of the heterosexual family. This condition involves the obvious removal from the perimeter of Articles 29, 30 and 31 of any other union, because it is completely immersive of the advantages destined for a family and a marriage that, by virtue of the purpose of the procreation that characterizes them, deserves them. Nor can one think, this time referring to Article 5 of the Cirinna bill, that by family can be understood as a sort of legal surrogate family through the undue recourse of adoptions, thereby overturning the fundamental principle that adoption gives a family to a child who is entitled to it and not a child to a couple who wants it. The desires of adults come after the rights of children. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] Nor can the scope of Article 81 of the Constitution be overlooked. The extension of survivor's pensions to a wider audience, which is difficult to predict, entails an extension of the subjective rights of the corresponding compulsory expenditure. The public accounting rules require an estimate of the costs of at least ten years, as they must be calculated for the period of full manifestation of the effects which, in this case, would correspond to the time when the average mortality rate of the cohabitants will be achieved. Since coverage is in the text projected at the only decade after the entry into force of the measure - that is, when very few will die according to what is reasonably foreseeable - it is clear that the mortality of the components of civil unions is minimal, with the result of a licence underestimating the financial effects and the relative budgetary coverage. For all these reasons, we insist on the approval of this question of constitutionality, referring the reasons for the suspensive proposal, which Mr Marinello will explain, concerning the driving licence violation of Article 72 of the Constitutional Charter as regards the article-by-article examination of the text now in the House which has not at all been carried out in the Commission. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u9	He asked Senator Giovanardi to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u10	Mr President, as Roberto Benigni says, our Constitution is the most beautiful in the world and I want to defend it not only for what is written in the Constitution, but for what the Constitutional Court has told us Members to do. What did the Constitutional Court tell us in the famous sentence? I read it to my colleagues because we need to know where we have to work. The Constitutional Court wrote: "In the light of the above-mentioned preparatory work, the issue of homosexual unions remained completely unrelated to the debate held in the Assembly, although the homosexual condition was certainly not unknown to them. The judgment of the Court continues: "The Constituents (...) discussed an institution which had a precise conformation and an articulated discipline in the civil order. Therefore, in the absence of several references, it is inevitable to conclude that they kept in mind the notion of marriage defined by the Civil Code which entered into force in 1942, which, as has been seen above, established (and still establishes) that the spouses should be persons of different sex. In this sense, the second paragraph of the provision also directs that, affirming the principle of moral and legal equality of spouses, it had regard to the position of the woman to whom it intended to attribute equal dignity and rights in the marital relationship. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, what the Court tells us: This meaning of the constitutional precept - Article 29 - cannot be surpassed by hermeneutics, because it would not be a mere re-reading of the system or abandoning a mere interpretive practice, but rather a creative interpretation. It must be reiterated, therefore, that the norm does not take into account homosexual unions, but rather intended to refer to marriage in the traditional meaning of that institute (man-woman). That's what the court told us. Therefore, the bill Cirinna, which completely overlaps with Article 29 of the Constitution on marriage, recognizing all the institutions, goes totally contrary to what the Court has indicated. But the Court has also told us something else: it has told us that the problem of homosexual couples or unmarried heterosexual couples should be included in Article 2 of the Constitution, among social formations. Man-man or woman-woman union is a social formation. What is social training in accordance with Article 2 of the Constitution, to which we must adhere strictly? The Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man, both as a single person and - attention - in the social formations where his personality takes place. If we had time in the Commission - then I will say that the Commission did not have this time - it would have been enough to take up the work of the Constitution and colleagues would have discovered that Mr Moro, Mr Fanfani, Mr Iotti and Mr Amendola, that is, not the last arrivals, tabled an amendment, amending the text of Article 2, which had entered into the Constitution with the diction of the inviolable rights of man and of the social formations where it takes place. They changed the "delle" to "nelle" and thus resulted in the expression "delle" in social formations. Read again on the speech by Mr Aldo Moro, who pointed out that in social formations (parties, unions and whatever you want) it was not intended to recognize social formation, but it was intended to defend and enhance the rights of individuals in social formation. We in civil union, as the Constitution has clarified, must defend the right of the two individual people; we do not create a marriage of B series, we do not create, from civil union, a person to blame something. As it is written in the Constitution, we defend and guarantee the individual rights of man in the social formation in which his personality takes place. This is another total upheaval of the Cirinna bill, which does not recognize the individual rights in social formations, as the Constitution wanted after a debate, removing the expression "social formations." How does this force? By totally disrupting Article 72 of the Constitution. The procedure used to bring this text to this House makes the work we are doing null and void. Why does it make it null? Unfortunately, I've already paid for this on my skin. Now I will read you the reasons why the Constitutional Court, two years ago, annulled and dismissed the Fini-Giovanardi law on drugs, creating a gigantic regulatory vacuum, causing all the criminal sentences that had been issued in the meantime (which had to be all revised) to decay and overwhelming all administrative acts. The Court wrote: This penetrating and incisive reform, involving delicate political, legal and scientific choices................................................................................................ And this? I believe that this reform, which anthropologically revises the entire mechanism of human-woman relations in our country and which involves delicate political, legal and scientific choices, would have required an adequate parliamentary debate, possible if the ordinary procedures for the formation of the law had been followed, ex Article 72 of the Constitution. [[Comments of Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u11	Senator Airola, please be quiet, you will have time and space to express your position.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u12	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). I'm reading the reasons why the Constitutional Court filed a law, saying: In addition, a regulatory intervention of similar importance - which, not by chance, was part of an autonomous bill (...) lying for three years in the Senate pending approval - and I stress the fact that that bill, those articles had already been discussed for nineteen sessions in the Senate - has ended, instead, to be hastily - that is, after three years of discussion in the Commission - inserted into a maxi amendment of the Government, entirely replacing the text of the bill of conversion presented directly in the Assembly of the Senate and on which the Government has posed the question of trust (...), thus precluded a specific discussion and a proper deliberation on the individual aspects of the discipline thus introduced. What does Article 72 say? That the draft laws should be discussed first in the Commission and then in the Assembly. Has this bill been discussed in the Commission? Never, because we discussed, from the end of July to mid-September, the unified text presented by Senator Cirinna, and we had already reached a third of the amendments. When a new draft law was presented on 6 October, at the first signature of Senator Cirinna, who was assigned in record time to the Justice Commission; at the night session of 12 October the rapporteur carried out the report, we enrolled myself, Senators Gasparri and Sacconi, in order to exercise our right of examination; but the day after the President of the Senate, with an unprecedented force, that does not exist in the history of the Senate, without any senator of the Commission being able to speak on the text just presented, at the Conference of the Leaders, he put it on the agenda for the next day's sitting, i.e. on 14 October. Therefore, a bill presented to the Senate on 6 October, 14 October, was already before the Assembly without any senator of the Commission having been able to examine it at all: I do not say to table amendments, but I do not even speak in general debate. But you can tell me: "But this bill had already been discussed." As the Court said, what had been discussed before was another draft law, while this is a new draft law with different rules than before. As I wrote in the question I am presenting, there is no precedent in the world, because the Rules of Procedure of the House say that at least two months a measure must be in the Commission. It then empowers the President, if necessary, to call on the President of the Commission to speed up the timetable. There are precedents in which the President of the Senate, after referring to the President of the Commission, recalled the measure to the House, but after a month, after the Commission had examined it. This case of zeroing the powers of the Commission (and I regret to tell the President of the Fat Senate who tore up Article 72 of the Constitution; and he would be a jurist!), creates a precedent according to which any Government or any parliamentary group can be superimposed on a Commission debate on any subject, submit a new bill; in four days bring it to the Assembly without having it discussed by the Commission and bypass an imperative constitutional precept, Article 72 of the Constitution, according to which the draft laws must be examined in the Commission and then in the Chamber. I shall finish, but I have another question to explain. As I said, this bill was scheduled for 14 October in the House; the Commission was no longer able to work and arrived in the Chamber on 28 January. That is October, November, December and January, months when the Commission could have worked and examined the draft law, have been totally skipped, and the bill, never seen in the Commission, arrives in the Chamber four months late. See that these are remarks that we will then formally address to the Quirinale first and to the Constitutional Court afterwards, which nullify all this from the beginning. What does it take to bring the text back to the Commission in order to allow it to settle the intricate legal problems that this bill entails, instead of going to the wrong place in the Chamber, without a rapporteur, with a messy text and a thousand issues that remain torn apart and with secret votes? Common sense would say that if we want to make a balanced and constitutionally correct law, let us frame it in what the Constitutional Court has said. We are in order to respect what the Constitutional Court has told us, but unfortunately the draft law presented is totally excerptive of the rights that the Constitution has given us and of what the Constitutional Court has told us. [[Applause from Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri, Formigoni and Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u13	He asked Senator Malan to speak in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u14	Mr President, Article 29 of the Constitution says that the Republic protects the family as a natural training based on marriage. It recognizes it - says the Constitution - because the family is largely pre-existing to the Constitution and the laws, not only of this State but to any law. The family is a social and cultural foundation - and it is also a social formation - but first it is natural and biological: it is the nature that has established how procreation takes place, that is between a man and a woman, neither more nor less. That is why the Constitution recognizes it: the family is already there, and the fact that this relationship is stable and lasting is one of the reasons that makes our species - assuming that ours is in fact an animal species - different from the others. In fact, the care of children, of children, which can happen only with the presence not only of the mother but also of the father, allows our species to have a greater possibility of development, with a brain larger than the other animals than our size, compared to our dimensions. This is because there is someone who can take care of the child, who is unarmed for several years after birth, because there is a relationship not only sexual but also lasting, during and after pregnancy, between man and woman. Therefore, no other social formation can be compared to this which - this yes - is something that exists in nature, whereas in nature there are no parties or cooperatives or unions, which are all respectable social formations - and there are undoubtedly relationships of solidarity between individuals outside this scheme - but they are something else; they have nothing to do with procreation. I'll add a definition. To the question "How does he define marriage?" that a journalist made to Senator Barack Obama a week before the 2008 elections, Obama, with the rhetorical capacity he has, said that marriage was for him the union between a man and a woman, and, as a Christian, considered it a sacred union where God is involved. Obama's talking. It's not my words. I would leave God and leave him out of the discussion; if anyone is interested in knowing how he thinks there is no shortage of sources. Now, why Obama changed his mind is not here a topic of discussion: he certainly did not do it to get re-elected because he can no longer be re-elected. It is true that Obama, who said that marriage is between man and woman, is now that of Love is love and the rainbow of the White House: mysteries! But it's not just Obama. What matters most to us is the Constitution, as reiterated by the many cited judgment n. 138 of 2010: marriage is between man and woman. Well, this bill that we are examining is in all a marriage, except in the name, and therefore goes against Article 29 of the Constitution which provides that marriage has special protection because marriage is a family between man and woman, because between man and woman it is a fruitful union; other types of union and social formation are not: it is an objective and natural fact. Undersecretary Scalfarotto, since 2013, said that civil unions must be essentially identical to marriage. In an interview with the Republic of India of 16 October 2014 it was even clearer: I do a battle for equality, like that of black Americans. Civil union is not a lower marriage but the same thing. Under another name for a question of Realpolitik. In other words, anyone who thinks it's a different thing is being fooled - I think voluntarily - because until a few months ago you might not even know, but now you know it well. These are not my words, but of the Undersecretary Scalfarotto, whom I thank for his presence. He is Under-Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament and not a State Secretary for Economic Affairs, Industry or Agriculture, who would have nothing to do with these matters. He, on the other hand, has something to do with this law. Well, with this bill, therefore, one touches the most rooted, the most effective, the most lasting institution, which is the family founded on marriage. There are many ways of celebrating marriages throughout history, but it is a lasting commitment, between a man and a woman, to protect procreation. This is marriage: if one wants to do something else, he must explain it to everyone. With this bill, since there is the infamous stepchild adoption, we touch not only the concept of what family is and what marriage is, but also the concept of what it is to be parents and to be children. Just see the two words: stepchild adoption. In these two words everything is already there. There's no need to have studied in Cambridge, to understand that adoption means adoption. Why don't we say things in Italian? Stepchild means stepchild. And the stepson is the son of the spouse, not the son of the friend, brother or loved one. The stepson is the son of the spouse and, therefore, these only two words explain to us that it is a matter of adoption and marriage and that therefore this is contrary to Article 29 of the Constitution. Well, on such an important subject, which touches on a much older element and, in the end, much more important even than our Constitution, what has been done in the Commission? This draft law has not been examined in the Commission for a minute. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] It is a pity that the Constitution says that every measure must be examined in the Commission and in the Assembly. It is true, as some say, that civil unions have been discussed in the Commission for several weeks. Mr Capelletti (M5S). For years! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). But there was no mention of this measure, which was presented one minute before the debate in the Commission was closed. Someone will say that the subject has been discussed. Have you ever heard of a trial that ends immediately, to move immediately to the degree of appeal, because the case is very similar to another? Imagine the case of a Mr. Tale, who should be put to trial, but who is immediately condemned, because there is a case very similar to his: so you go ahead and then, if anything, there is the appeal. This is therefore the way to proceed and to violate Article 72 of the Constitution, and then to violate it again in Article 29 and other articles. Unfortunately the whole measure is spoiled by lies, scams and violations of the Rules of Procedure. I have spoken about Article 72, but there is also Article 3 of the Constitution to be considered. If by chance it is not true what the undersecretary Scalfarotto authoritatively says, that this is a marriage, it is not seen why it should not be extended to heterosexual couples as well. Since there are so many married couples living together, one tries to make them understand that they are protecting their rights. I quote again undersecretary Scalfarotto who said that if a heterosexual couple wants rights, they marry and then arrange. And he said that if the media say that this discriminates against heterosexual couples, this is a sign of cultural homophobia. I would remind you that Mr Scalfarotto is always the first signatory of a bill, approved by the House of Deputies - fortunately there are still two Chambers - in which, for homophobia, up to six years of imprisonment is expected: I say this in order to clarify the climate and civilization that we want to draw. So, I was saying that heterosexual couples are not protected by this legislation and, therefore, if you take the pretense that this is not a marriage, you have the clear violation of Article 3 of the Constitution, so it is said that you should not be discriminated against on the basis of so many things and, of course, also on the basis of sex. In any case, there was no mention in the Commission of those bland and badly written protections that there are for the heterosexual couple, much, much lower than those for the homosexual couple. No mention was made of this, no mention was made of adoptions. It's all there is to it: lies come to pass. Yet how many times we have also read in documents with a nice layout of the Democratic Party senators that is not a marriage and there are no adoptions. There are adoptions and so they think Italians are idiots and they don't understand what adoption means, and the protections for straight couples aren't there. With regard to the economic cover for the survivor's pension and the tax deductions for the partner of the civil union, such cover has been declared eligible by the Budget Committee on the basis of a ridiculous technical report from the Ministry where the number of couples presumed is variable depending on the type of expenditure that is being examined, where it is assumed that there will be no persons over 50 who will benefit from civil unions, where the expenses for foreigners and whatever else are not taken into account. Deputy Minister Morando himself said that this was a report made by the Ministry of Justice and validated by the State Accounting Office. Now the Ministry of Justice makes economic assessments. As regards adoptions, I recall essentially two points: already today the survivor of a de facto union between two persons can adopt the child of the other without all other procedures, that is, special adoptions that allow to adopt him directly because already today the law, and it is so for thirty years, establishes that the child, in case he remains without parents, can be given for adoption to a person with whom he has a stable and lasting relationship. If this relationship exists, it is already possible today so that we do not come to talk about children who would no longer have protection. Perhaps we should first consider the protection of these children, before depriving them of their mother or father premeditatedly. Secondly, it would be a scam to remove only Article 5 because we know well, for what has happened in other European countries and for what all the constitutionalists have told us, that even if Article 5 on adoptions were removed, the rule would be fished out by way of case law for which it would be a real scam, colleagues of the Democratic Party, voting on this measure by removing Article 5, provided that it is removed, because it would mean hypocritically voting on it saying that there are no adoptions while instead there are going to be. Finally, what does uterus for rent mean? It means tearing a child from her mother a few seconds after she was born. In this regard, Mr President, I would like to show you the municipal regulation on the protection of animals in the city of Rome. Article 8 is titled: "Maltreatment of animals" and in paragraph 6 it says: It is forbidden to separate the puppies of dogs and cats from the mother before 60 days of life unless for serious reasons certified by a veterinary surgeon. Why? Because it is considered a barbarism to separate a kitten or a puppy from his mother. Instead, with the uterus for rent, the child is immediately separated from the mother. Who signed this regulation? The mayor's delegate to animal rights policies, Monica Cirinna. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups and Senator Sacconi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u15	He asked Senator Quagliariello to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reference to constitutionality which I shall now briefly refer to as one of the most serious defects of the draft law in this House: a structural defect and therefore such a defect as to affect the constitutional legitimacy of the entire text. I refer to the contrast with Article 29 of our Constitutional Charter: contrast that is clearly determined because of the many, insisted, repeated reminders that the discipline of civil unions that the bill aims to introduce - also limited to couples of cohabitants of the same sex - works with respect to Title VI, Book I of the Civil Code, and therefore in particular to matrimonial law and family law. The subject is, on the one hand, overwhelming evidence, on the other hand, extremely treacherous in the light of the tormenting discussions involving particularly sensitive aspects of the text in our examination. Let's see why. In this sense, already the objectionable choice and strongly contested by us to reserve access to the institute of civil union only to couples of the same sex, and preclude it to couples of different sex, proves a lot. In the sense that this choice, usually motivated with the argument that heterosexual couples already have the possibility to enter the institution of marriage, confirms the desire to outline not a completely original legal institution, as well as tried to make believe, but exactly a substitute of the marriage institution. The subject goes well beyond the mere nominalistic dimension, and to understand it it seems opportune to assume as a lighthouse of our reasoning on the one hand the text of the Constitution and the trace of its evolutionary path remained sculpted in the works of the constituent Assembly and, on the other hand, the well-known judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 138 of 2010 which, in urging the legislator to a legal regulation of unions even between persons of the same sex, fixed at the same time non-valicable stakes. The discrimination lies in the letter and in the spirit of Article 2 of our Constitutional Charter, to which the institution of civil union should be anchored. It should in fact be remembered that if in the draft Constitution reference was made to the recognition of the inviolable rights of the (subline of the ") individuals and of the (subline of the ") social formations where their personality takes place, it was the converging amending activity of Moro and Fanfani on the one hand, and of Nilde Iotti and Amendola on the other, to give us the formulation sculpted in the Charter of 1947: The Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man, both as a single person and in the social formations where his personality is carried out..................................................................................................................... In this way, as Aldo Moro pointed out in the constituent assembly, it was intended to recognize the essential rights of freedom to the social formations in which human dignity and freedom take place, but the latter - man, precisely - was identified as the holder of a right that finds its expression in social formation. It is in this vein - in the wake of Article 2 - that the Constitutional Court has urged the legislator to intervene, not by chance referring to a discipline (...) aimed at regulating the rights and duties of the members of the couple. On the other hand, it seems to us that this furrow has come out abundantly, proposing in the draft law to our examination a legal discipline that basically falls under the orbit of Article 29 and, therefore, contrasts with it since it is aimed at regulating cases outside it. It is the Constitutional Court itself that essentially excludes the possibility of an extensive interpretation of Article 29. Not because the dictates of the Charter cannot be interpreted in the light of the changing of social phenomena, but because this interpretation cannot go to the point of affecting the core of the norm, modifying it in such a way as to include phenomena and problems not considered in any way when it was issued. Otherwise, a hermeneutic activity would slip into an activity of creative interpretation. Above all, the Court's reference to the constitutional relief attributed to the legitimate family and to the (potential) procreative purpose which is to differentiate it from homosexual union is insurmountable. In the light of these considerations, fellow senators, it is clear that the attempt to subject the institution of civil union to the norms of codex proper to matrimonial law, and therefore of family law, not only compromises the uniqueness of the family founded on marriage sanctioned by the Constitution, but transfers to the head of a new and specific social formation, not oriented to procreation, a legal discipline (that, precisely, referred to in Title VI of Book I of the Civil Code) aimed primarily at the protection of the offspring from which the interest in public recognition derives. It does not, however, escape the consciously underlying snare of this operation, which also explains why we have ventured on the road of a wrong bill from the constitutional point of view, where legislation aimed at recognising and guaranteeing the rights of the cohabitants, regardless of the sexual nature of cohabitation itself, without claiming to be assimilated to family law, would have met the immediate consent of a large part of the political forces represented in this House. We would have adopted a text unanimously. The aim underlying the installation of the so-called Cirinnà bill, in fact, is to consciously lay the premises for the incidental attribution, in the case-law, of additional rights so far specifically related to the matrimonial institution, and in particular the right to adoption. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for weeks we have been searching for expedients which allow us to include in the text the so-called stepchild adoption, perhaps under disguised lies, in fact legitimizing the use of procreative practices contrary to our laws and perhaps also to the foundations of our civilization. The fact is that, even if the direct norm on adoption were to be expunged from the bill, what comes out of the door would inevitably and soon come back from the window, perhaps through the European Courts as happened in other countries of the old Continent. European jurisprudence is in fact substantial: it can be called a civil union, it can also be called a Pluto, it can be called as you wish, but the more an institution in its legal substance is close to that of marriage, the more it will be considered discriminatory the non-recognition in the discipline of the institution itself of rights related to marriage. In short, stepchild or not stepchild, with a similar marriage we will soon find ourselves the right to adoption, with everything that follows in the matter of genetic practices. That is why constitutional legitimacy has been so blatantly challenged by putting an open text against Article 29 and the judgments of the Court before this House. That is the reason why we are offering the reference that has just been made to the debate by the House and our colleagues. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PpI, M, MBI, Id, E-E), FI-PdL XVII, CoR and LN-Aut. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u17	He asked Senator Compagna to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP5. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u18	Mr President, in previous speeches, my previous colleagues referred carefully to the judgment of the Constitutional Court in 2010, to certain norms of the constitutional dictation, to the same pattern as the Constitutional Constituents of the time. In my opinion there is, distinct but not far from these profiles, a profile not less worthy of attention: it is that of absolute inconsistency with the civil code. With all due respect for the Italian Constitutional Charter and other European countries, the civil code is much older and, in many respects, even more significant. The norms of the civil code have the authority of the generations; in the constitutional norms, however important, although many times very common, there is the meritorious political agreement that prevails over the normative aspect. The civil code, on the other hand, is the approach to modernity. What is the approach to modernity? Napoleon succeeded him in this respect, maintaining and not deleting many aspects of the French Revolution. In the old regime there was a normative profile for the barons and another for the masks; one for the marquises and another for the gardeners. The idea of the civil code was, instead, that of common law: no longer special legislation. Here, instead, in flagrant contempt of the civil code, Chapter 1 of the proposal of my colleague Cirinna proposes to distinguish between ten articles dedicated to the special condition of homosexuals and twelve articles dedicated to the special condition of heterosexuals; therefore, this norm is miswritten, is not digested and does not seem digestible from our system of constitution and order. Civil union is established. What is civil union? It is a legal institution conceived between persons of the same sex as specific social training. Why, then, are people of different sex discriminated against in accessing the civil union established in the first ten articles? Friend Sacconi recalled, with a lot of punctuality, the Constituent. In him there is nostalgia, perhaps a nostalgia "horse" of when there was the Communist Party; without rascal intentions, let me be as nostalgia as when there was his majesty liberalism. It is a liberal culture that existed in the secular rapporteur Meuccio Ruini, who, on 6 February 1947, recalled in his report that, for the state of mind of the Italian people and for religious reflections, the indissolubility of marriage was such an important issue that it could not be touched by ordinary law in any case, but only by a law of constitutional rank. BUCCARELLA (M5S). So much so that we now have a divorce law! COMPAGNA (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Bravo! Times change, and in order to reach the law Fortuna-Baslini found the elegant legal solution, respectful of his majesty the civil code of 1804, for which the cessation of the civil effects of marriage was something quite different from the dissolution of the bond assumed religiously. After all, and his friend Quagliariello knows much more about it than I do, a common great friend and teacher, Paolo Ungari, in his "History of Family Law in Italy," that is nothing more than a work in the first draft made by an official of the Department of Studies of the Chamber of Deputies in view of that legislative affair that arrived at Fortuna-Baslini, he recalled precisely the ancient regime eradicated by the civil code. It seems to me, even, that the first chapter of the book of Ungari, before arriving at the marriage of civil law, concerned the cicisbees, the authorized courtiers, literary figure, but in its almost legal way, of the eighteenth century. Of course, it is right that the Constitution should be brought into play today; probably, if next week's debate goes on, it will be largely about the Constitution. However, in my opinion the escamotage with which the spirit of the Constituent was to be avoided, the sense of this relationship of Ruini that proposed marriage and family in the terms in which Maurizio Sacconi evoked them in our Constitution, refers to something that at the time was not that it was not considered possible: it was not considered conceivable. I am referring to the fact that people of the same sex could join their lives with a bond accepted and acceptable by the community. What is the motivation that I think emerges from the "incestuous" overlapping of different nuclei, with parents different from each other by sex, suggested by my colleague Cirinna? With a lot of candor it seems to me that people of different sex already have the faculty of access to the marriage institution. Yeah, but if so, the civil union referred to in Chapter 1, referred to in Articles 1 to 10, is but a surrogate of marriage, the same marriage to which Senator Quagliariello was controversially alluding. Polemically because there is the idea of a legislator who comes to score the goal through a subsequent action, which takes place no longer in Parliament but in the courts. You see, colleagues, if the civil union referred to in the first 10 articles of the bill under consideration is a social formation that must be distinguished from marriage, because it aims at regulating unions based on mutual assistance and solidarity, then explain to me why this institute is precluded to people of different sex, violating in a showy and striking way those walls of constitutionality that recognize the inviolable rights of man in the social formations where his personality takes place. There have already been calls from other Members. Therefore, of course, the call I would like to make to my colleagues for a careful assessment, in accordance with Rule 93 of our Rules of Procedure, refers to constitutional issues which are essentially regarded as guarantees of freedom, not as a tendentious precondition for step-by-step legislation, with the unpleasant and unpleasant invasion of jurisdiction. [[Applause from the GAL Groups (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and FI-PdL XVII and Senator Formigoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u19	He asked to intervene Senator Mauro Giovanni to illustrate the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP6. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in proposing the preliminary question of constitutionality, QP6 I have focused my attention on the provisions of Article 5 of the draft law which has been put to the attention of this House, in particular on the aspect which has become known in the daily debate in our country as stepchild adoption, which I must translate from English as the adoption of the stepson. We could have called it more simply by the term 'adoption of the stepson', which in common jargon would have been perceived in a simpler and more immediate way. It is a debate that has often also become a matter of circumstance. The typhoseries have fought a lot in favor of or against the adoption of the stepson in the case of homosexual couples, often also in political position. This debate, which is so important and important, which is going to touch the deepest strings of our coexistence, as it has gone to build in our country, as well as the beliefs that are the basis of such coexistence, has often become the subject of political positioning, until in the last period to regulate (I think it is really unworthy) internal party issues and to be the object of mediation on what can more or less unite the group of a parliamentary group or a political party. Yet we are talking about what concerns the natural law and the foundations of civil coexistence; we are working on constitutional principles; we are talking about a really strong theme that cannot be simplified or debilitated in the contrast between those who participate in one or the other public manifestation to find mediations at the lowest level: the mediation of what plerumque can most sedate the animosities within the parties. Veda, President, in Italy it is already planned to adopt the stepson for heterosexual couples married for at least three years and who have lived more uxorio for at least three years. Article 5 of the bill in question, in extending the institute of non-legitimate adoption, allowed to the spouse by Article 44 (b) of Law No 184 of 1983, also to the part of the civil union, contradicts Article 31 of the Constitution, according to which the Republic protects children by favoring the institutions necessary for this purpose. Our Constitution is absolutely precise on this issue. Then, in Article 117, it is expected that the legislative power will be exercised by the State and the Regions in compliance with the Constitution, as well as the constraints arising from Community law and international obligations. In this case there is the New York Convention, entitled to the rights of the child, which expressly provides for a position on the subject. Italy has ratified the New York Convention by Law No 176 of 1991: the articles of that Convention provide for respect for the best interests of the child (Article 2), the right of the child to the link with his parents (Articles 7 and 8) and, if adopted, a review of the situation of the child in relation to his father and mother (Article 21). The adoption, provided for in Article 5 of this draft law, does not provide for any verification of the primary interest of the child and respect for his rights as provided for in the New York Convention. It is legitimate to ask: in preparing this bill who intended to protect themselves? To whom is this law addressed? Is it intended to protect the rights of parents, forgetting that there are children's rights which have at least the same dignity to have access to the legal order as to parents? Maybe children don't vote; maybe children don't give opinions and they don't write in newspapers; they can't make themselves felt as adults can [[Comments of Senator Airola]] , but a legal system cannot ignore the right of future generations; it cannot remain deaf and dumb compared to those who have less voice, strength or weight. Without prejudice to the fact that the case often evoked the death of the natural parent, as well as the cases of disrepute and abandonment, are already the subject of protection on the basis of the principle of affective continuity, recalled by Law No 184 of 1983, with particular reference to the special cases referred to in Article 44, the legislative statuition provided for in this draft law, in addition to representing a further equivalence between spouses and partners of a civil union, runs into a vicious circle insoluble. In fact, if the adoption, pursuant to Article 44 of Law No 184 of 1983, was permitted by this bill only for children born before the union or before the entry into force of the law, it would incur the violation of the principle of equality laid down in Article 3 of the Constitution to children born after the conclusion of the union and to partners who wished to adopt them. Moreover, the practices of assisted fertilization, prohibited by the Italian law, would be indirectly legitimate and the only chronological data would be used as a discriminatory principle. In the event, however, that adoption was also permitted for children born to union already in progress, it would be a legitimization of forms of surrogate parenthood, journalistically known as "utero for rent", absolutely incompatible with the needs of the protection of minors and women and with the very foundations of our civilization and in violation of law n. 40 of 2004 regarding the forms of access allowed to assisted fertilization. For all these reasons, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, I do not think that draft law No 2081 should be examined. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and FI-PdL XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u21	He asked Senator Bruni to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP7. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u22	Mr President, this measure, the point of arrival of a long legislative process which saw the meeting of several draft laws, is intended to give our legal system a legal recognition to couples formed by persons of the same sex, and to recognize the rights of couples in fact. There are many serious issues raised on the substance of the provision that this House is about to examine. Chapter 1 introduces and regulates the institution of civil union between persons of the same sex as a specific social formation that finds its foundation in Article 2 of the Constitution, which guarantees the inviolable rights of man both as a single person and in social formations, meaning for such, as clarified by the Constitutional Court, any form of community, simple or complex, suitable to allow and promote the free development of the person in the relationship life (see in this sense the judgment n. 170 of 2014). Firstly, I cannot help but point out here that the exclusive reserve of the legal institution of civil union for homosexual couples alone, precisely because of the proclaimed diversity from the institution of marriage, results in the substantial violation of Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution in the part in which the fundamental right of man to express his personality is suppressed also within this new and specific social formation in the light of illegal discrimination based on sexual identity. It is clear, therefore, that the principle of equality referred to in Article 3 of the Constitution, which is the fundamental criterion on which the legal order of our State is based, is compressed, as we repeatedly quote and like to point out. In other words, in order to eliminate discriminatory situations, other equally serious situations are introduced. On the other hand, if we go beyond the statement of principle contained in Article 1 of the Cirinna bill and focus on the content of the provisions, another reality emerges. In fact, we are faced with a regulatory body that overlaps too much with the institution of the family, until it gets confused. The new text, in fact, even if purified by the bad technique of referring tout court to entire titles and heads of the civil code in the matter of family, in essence keeps firm all references to the same articles of the civil code that regulate marriage itself, including those on the discipline of separation and divorce, discipline designed and structured to dissolve the specific bond of marriage and not that of other unions or social formations. But many more and substantial are the references to the codistical discipline of marriage. I recall, for example, the reference to the provisions on pre-marital formalities (publications), that is to the system of oppositions to marriage or to those concerning the celebration of marriage, where the norm that provides for the reading of Articles 143, 144 and 147 of the Civil Code is recalled. So we're in the presence of a real copy of the wedding. Now, my Group and I believe that our country, and for it we who represent it, must take note, with awareness and responsibility, of the profound changes that are pervading our society and the attitude of interpersonal relationships of affective character. It is our duty, therefore, to fill that void of legal recognition which deprives homosexual couples of all forms of protection. We must therefore regulate the rights and duties arising from these new forms of affective community, but I believe that this activity must take place in accordance with the principles laid down in the Constitution. It is precisely from the jurisprudence of the Court of Strasbourg, which has repeatedly condemned our country for failing to give the necessary consideration to the interests of its own community, that I want to take steps to illustrate the profound vulnus that the approval of this bill is capable of causing to our constitutional order. The case law of the European Court of Human Rights has shown that homosexual unions are in a situation similar to that of heterosexual couples as regards the need for recognition and legal protection of the report. The European Court of Human Rights has stated that the European Convention on Human Rights does not oblige the State to grant the right to marriage to a homosexual couple. It has also and rightly, in my view, pointed out that the national authorities are in a better position to assess and respond to the needs of society in this area, since marriage has deeply rooted social and cultural connotations, which differ considerably from one society to another. The European Court of Human Rights therefore clarifies that everyone has a right to family life, but this does not presuppose or imply that homosexual persons have a right to marriage. The Constitutional Court, for its part, has already dealt with the issue of the possible extension to homosexual unions of the discipline of civil marriage by ruling No 138 of 2010 and until the most recent ruling No 170 of 2014. Constitutional judges have made it clear that it is in the notion of social formation, as enshrined in Article 2 of the Constitution, that the legal foundation of homosexual union must be traced, without such aspiration having to pass through the recognition of equalization to the marriage of homosexual unions. The Court, thus directing the work of the legislator, affirmed that it is precisely in this field of application that Parliament will be obliged to identify, in the exercise of its full discretion, the forms of guarantee and recognition for such unions. Article 29, as confirmed by the work of the constituent assembly, did not include any reference to homosexual unions. The Constituents discussed an institute that had a precise conformation and an articulated discipline in the civil order. This concept referred to marriage between men and women, as confirmed by the second paragraph of the provision, which protects equal dignity and women's rights in marital relations. Further confirmation of the above is identified by the Court under Article 30 of the Constitution, where the legislator considered it necessary to take care of the protection of children, ensuring equal treatment for those born out of marriage, even if compatible with the members of the legitimate family. Consequently, the reference to Article 3 of the Constitution cannot be regarded as illegal as the rule of the Civil Code on heterosexual unions because it is based on Article 29 of the Constitution. From this point of view, therefore, there is a violation of Articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution. Closely related to the concept of civil union as marriage bis is found to be the provision contained in Article 5 of the draft law under consideration, which extends to the part of civil union the right to adopt the child, including adoptive, of the other spouse or part of the civil union. The entire establishment of Law No 184 of 1983 is intended primarily to guarantee the right of the child to have been raised and raised in his family. In case this is not able to do so, the law guarantees the child the right to be raised and raised by a family, understood as a man and a woman united by marriage, or by persons who are able to guarantee the child to grow in a social formation of a family type, finally, as an extrema ratio, in an institution. The adoption in particular cases shares the spirit of Law No 184 of 1983, i.e. the right of the child to be raised by a family. The question then arises again what the legislator intended as a family. The Italian Constitution dedicates to the family and marriage Articles 29, 30 and 31, whose provisions are closely related to each other. Thus, a vision emerges of the family that includes its teleological nature, as a natural place of procreation and growth of children. As stated above, there can be no family for the Constitution if it is not based on marriage between a man and a woman (see the above mentioned judgments of the Constitutional Court). It is defined as a natural society, thus not wishing to specify a generic reference to jusnaturalistic conceptions, but, as clearly emerges from the preparatory work of the constituent assembly, as an element of emphasis on the pre-juridical nature of the family institution, which therefore exists before and independently from legislative interventions. In this regard, I would merely point out that, with full respect for those who live in a condition of couple which is a mere variant of human sexual behavior, and the relative right to obtain a legal discipline of that condition, it is a real forcing to claim to equate two situations that are made not homogeneous by the natural procreative potential that only marriage between man and woman possesses. It is therefore not by chance that the Constitutional Charter, after dealing with marriage, considered it necessary to take care of the protection of children, ensuring equal treatment for those born outside marriage (Article 30). The right and necessary protection, guaranteed to natural children, does not detract from the constitutional importance attributed to the legitimate family and the potential procreative goal of marriage, which is worth distinguishing it from the homosexual union. Equalizing civil union, therefore, for the purpose of the special form of adoption recognized by Article 5 of the bill presented by Senator Cirinna, is in clear and definitive contrast with that concept of family, as evidenced by the combined provisions of Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Constitution, to which also refers the legislation on adoptions. For the foregoing, we have submitted the question referred for a preliminary ruling, QP7. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senators Giovanardi and Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u23	She asked Senator Stefani to explain the suspensive issue QP8. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Lega Nord Group have also tabled a question of constitutionality on this draft law, because we must all realize that what you want to approve is a measure that will certainly be submitted to the censure of the Constitutional Court, if you do not come and compose the Constitutional Court at your liking, which is why there will then be no censorship. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] In any case, we must remember the basic principles. Before, Senator Giovanardi spoke of the most beautiful constitution in the world.We regret that you did not remember it when you voted on constitutional reforms. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Rizzotti.]] But, in any case, let us now talk about the principles on which we should structure our entire world of law, as long as the Constitutional Charter is the Charter that we should be inspired by. We believe that even reading Article 29 of the Constitution is not useless and plentiful. Gentlemen, when it is said that the family is a natural society founded on marriage, and when, in Article 30, it is recalled that it is the duty and right of parents to maintain, establish and educate children, even if they are born out of marriage, and it is said that the law ensures to children born out of marriage all legal and social protection; and when we remember Article 31, that is, the whole system of measures and other provisions for the formation of the family, we cannot pretend that the family can be structured on something other than marriage. If we think about the preparatory work of the constituent Assembly - that was a real constituent Assembly - we are talking about natural society as something pre-existing to the law, so we cannot have the pride and arrogance of wanting to overcome, with a rule of law, what is a pre-existing and natural right. We cannot create institutions - just because you have the votes - that have nothing to do with our natural being. Moreover, all the articles we have mentioned refer to the family as a function of having children, because the family itself is born as a core of our society, precisely because in it all citizens are born and raised. For this reason, we do not think we can talk about family with the whole system of provisions, recognitions and benefits, with all that concerns the set of regulations that is around the recognition of the family; we cannot think of pretending that there is not even procreation. Let us think of the frequently cited famous judgment of the Constitutional Court, No 138 of 2010, which, among other things, was not issued the day before yesterday but has been there for years now. I think that it has given a chrism and a reading of the Constitutional Charter so that it cannot be surpassed at all. We really need to read it: let's not try to interpret it in our own way, perhaps by reading articles on the Internet and in the newspapers. We read the quote: when we talk about possible social formations and their aspiration to a recognition it is said that it cannot be achieved exclusively with the equalization of marriage. Therefore, this sentence is not saying that we must equate such social formation with marriage, but that we can normalize it without making an express call to marriage. He then drew attention to the fact that it was up to Parliament to identify the forms of guarantee and recognition for the above-mentioned unions. That's true. There is a legislative activity that can include an institution, regulate its contents, but what does the Constitutional Court say? In the field of application of Article 2 of the Constitution, therefore, Article 2 of the Constitution is stressed. We are not talking about a family founded on marriage but about social formations. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court recalls that natural society is an original and pre-existing right and also says that it recognises - but I think we all recognize it - a change in customs. We cannot think that we are still in 1500, 1800 or 1900, there is a change in customs, but - says the Court - this cannot affect the interpretation and application of the constitutional rule that recognizes the family founded on marriage. So let us not venture to create legislation that really just wants to give a creative interpretation of the content of our Constitutional Charter. Last but not least the majority of Italians do not say that there must be no civil unions, and therefore a regulation of these relationships that are based on an affective bond, of love, of a homosexual couple. We are simply saying - and this is fundamental - that we must not recall the rules on marriage. This text does not call it marriage (it has also passed in the Commission the amendment which wants it to be considered a social formation, as if to say that we do not want a marriage) but recalls all the norms on marriage. We do not need very great lawyers and experts to say that it is very easy to overcome this type of facility and it is very easy to say that civil union is a marriage: it is useless to call it in one way, if the content is anything else. At a time when such an institution is qualified as a marriage, in terms of substance, it will achieve all that applies to marriage. So here arises the problem that all Italians now have at heart, that is, the problem of adoptions. From this point of view, I agree with the concerns raised by some of my fellow Members: we who have lived through the work in the Commission can well say that. We talked about the discipline of civil unions, while we touched on the issue of adoptions simply by introducing a norm, without having made a path of deepening on the law that governs adoptions. In fact, the hearings in the Commission did not involve bodies, associations and institutions with experience in the field of adoptions, because we have consulted very different types of bodies. We certainly did not focus the debate on adoption. However, adoption is a very complex system, with complex and very delicate legislation, in which it is stressed that there is no right to adopt. This is fundamental: there is not an exclusive and individual right of the parent to adopt at all costs. The ratio underlying the adoption legislation is that there is a straight - this yes, unbearable and indisputable - of children to have a family. The view through which the current system of adoptions is to be reviewed must therefore be reversed, with the adoption of the stepson and all forms eventually mitigated. The adoption should have been dealt with in a much different way, discussing the issue of adoptions, and not dealing with it as if it were a corollary of civil unions; and it never happens that the corollary comes as a result of a judgment of the Constitutional Court or a judgment coming from the European Union, with all the inconveniences and disasters that may arise, when a rule is practically modified by a judicial decision. We also recall, incidentally, as we have also set out in our preliminary question, that Article 117 of the Constitution exists, until proven otherwise, according to which legislative power is exercised by the State and the Regions in compliance with the Constitution, as well as the constraints deriving from international obligations. We must therefore remember that the existence of the 1989 New York Convention on the Rights of the Child, which contains articles which provide for the protection of the interests of the child, which is considered superior. In fact, there is talk of the child's right to the link with his parents and, in the case of adoptions, of a verification of the child's situation in relation to his father and mother. Therefore, we cannot fail to believe that the content of the New York Convention cannot be applied in the specific case. We therefore still insist that this House evaluates the constitutionality of the rule, as it is structured, because it could have been done better and certainly something could have been done that could have been part of the constitutional complex. That is why we insist that this question of ours be accepted and that it be referred back to the competent Commission. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Senators Rizzotti and Sacconi Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u25	He asked Senator Giovanardi to explain the suspensive question QS1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u26	Mr President, the previous speakers made it clear, first of all, that they wanted to deal intellectually with this problem, and that the amendment of Article 29 of the Constitution would be proposed. It is so simple: a process of constitutional revision would have been carried out, to delete Article 29 and open the way, if there is a majority of the country and Parliament that wants it, to a different diction, in accordance with the new norm. However, as the Constitutional Court has told us, this cannot be done under Article 29 which is currently in force. Since we then talk about the Constitution, do we want to see what would happen - I am referring to my colleague Senator Compagna when he spoke about the civil code - from Article 3 of the Constitution? Article 3 of the Constitution says we're all the same. If the bill passed, we would have a marriage regime under Article 29 only for a man and a woman who marry, that is for the natural society based on marriage provided for by the current Constitution. Then we would have civil unions exclusively between man and man and woman and woman. Civil unions, in fact, are strictly for homosexuals. Among other things, while marriage is null if it is not consummated, it is not possible to understand well who goes to determine what kind of relationship there is between those who conclude civil unions. For example, I imagine all the scams that would happen on the part of those who could conclude a civil union of convenience perhaps to have citizenship or the benefits that result from it. Then we would have a third level of the civil code that would be represented by heterosexual couples for whom the second part of the so-called Cirinna law provides a specific convention. For example, if two men enter into a civil union they are entitled to a survivor's pension, to benefits on housing and to transfers to the workplace while a man and a woman who have two children and who conclude an ex-Cirinnay convention do not have the right to a survivor's pension; therefore two men do, while a man and a woman who, as with the Dico, conclude an ex-Cirinnay convention do not have the survivor's pension, even if they have children. But this isn't over. This is only the third level. Then we will have a fourth level of civil code relating to all couples of fact (man-man, woman-woman, man-woman) who want to remain couples in fact and therefore do not want to marry, nor conclude civil unions, nor conventions but to which the jurisprudence, as is known, already today in Italy offers some fairly extensive covers, noting that there are realities of coexistence and affection, especially when there are children, that must be protected regardless of whether a formal act has taken place. But it is not enough: we have a fifth level that is the coexistence of solidarity: the two widows who live in the same house, the pastor and the perpetual, the two memory domains, that is, people who, in order to optimize the expenses and to give each other assistance, want to obtain a certain type of recognition. Finally, we have a sixth level to which the singles belong. Now, the civil code and the Constitution say that marriage has its own specificity that the Constitution protects because there is motherhood and there are children and then there is Article 3, according to which we are all equal and therefore rights must also be protected in social formations. With this bill when the magistrate has to take note of a situation, he will have to enter the case taking into account six different situations, depending on whether it is marriage, civil union, convention, couple in fact, coexistence that is independent of love but is built only on solidarity, and singles. This is the civil code that we will offer with this law to the Italians. I feel like I'm dreaming. Is anyone aware of the legal obnoxiousness that would be fired with this text of law that started to give protection to certain situations? Until three years ago, I participated in dozens of television broadcasts on the Dico issue. There were always unmarried male-woman couples who complained about the lack of protection. Until three years ago there had never been a man-man-woman-woman couple because the problem of the Dico was exclusively to give protection to unmarried heterosexual couples. Suddenly the situation has turned upside down and today civil unions are exclusively man-man and woman-woman and what was the main problem up to three years ago has been degraded to the third level of protection. Even better than the fourth, fifth and sixth levels, but the civil code is sliced. But how is it sliced? I insist on this subject and I also say this to the 5 Star Movement Group: is it okay for them to have a precedent for which the Commission will be completely exonerated from the discussion of a bill, in this and in the next parliaments? I have been the Minister of Relations with Parliament and the Vice President of the House and I am not comfortable with that. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] In fact, if I go to take the acts, the previous draft law on civil unions, the unified one, was in the Commission from 29 July to 5 August, that is the last week before the holidays because before there was no coverage by the Government and the opinion of the Budget Commission. So, we discussed it the last week before the start of the summer holidays and we resumed on September 2nd. Then, on 15 September, we were exonerated, in the sense that the Commission no longer put the measure on the agenda. That's the data. The debate on the amendments lasted... [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u27	Senator Airola, if you want to sit outside, I'll help you with the rules.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u28	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). If Senator Airola missed the dose, it's not my fault. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Montevecchi (M5S). You always talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then there will be a debate on the proposals for preliminary and suspensive questions. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Mr President, I am not making any argument, but I am making some figures. The debate in the Commission took place between the end of July and the beginning of August and then resumed on 2 September. Since 15 September the measure has not been dealt with and, surprisingly, a new bill was presented in the Senate on 6 October. The measure we are discussing now is not the one that has been dealt with in the Commission, which has disappeared; the measure we are examining is different from that and has never been discussed in the Commission. I sent a letter to the President of the Senate, of course, after doing a certain search for the precedents. According to a peaceful interpretation, Rule 44 of the Senate Rules states that the normal time for examination of a draft law in the Commission is two months. The President of the Senate may have a reduced deadline for the report, giving notice to the Assembly (but this has never happened with reference to the measure under consideration). Once the deadline has expired, the draft law may be taken into account in the planning of the work, unless the Assembly grants a new deadline. In this case, there has never been any such communication on the part of the President and it has never occurred - I am referring to the precedents of the Senate - that a draft law has been brought to the House without the senators who joined the Commission to speak after the report having spoken. It is enough to look at the acts, which show that in the Commission President Casson had told the senators who had asked to speak that they could do so at the next day's sitting: in the evening they had listened to the report and the next day they would have had the debate. The debate never took place, however, because the day after the Conference of Leaders decided to schedule the measure in this House. This is our Rules of Procedure, but it responds to the Constitution: the Constitutional Charter - this is a mandatory rule - states that the measure must be discussed first in the Commission and then in the House. With reference to the ruling on Fini-Giovanardi, the Constitutional Court said that I would be hasty. This jurisprudence is after 2006 and I could not know that the Court would change it, but the fact that that bill had been in the Senate Commission for two years and that 19 sessions had been held was not enough, because, according to the Constitutional Court, Article 72 of the Constitution must be fully respected, all the more so with reference to the draft laws delegated. In fact, according to Article 72 (4) of the Constitution, the normal procedure of examination and approval must be adopted for the legislative delegation's draft law, without exception. In this case, has there been a discussion? Absolutely not. If Article 72 of the Constitution can be overtaken so resoundingly, then, dear colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, the role of the Commissions is frustrated. It is enough to do this little thing in order to overcome any impediment, obstacle and request for further consideration that the Commission is entitled to. I challenge anyone to say that the civil code is not broken in six different cases as appropriate. In the Commission, we have never been able to deal with Article 5 on adoption and stepbrothers, because if that were possible we would have made a few comments. You go on TV to say that whoever commissioned the child abroad (i.e. the father who went to buy the oocyte from a woman and then put it into a Third World woman) then took the child and you wonder what the child does, who is now in Italy, if the father dies. According to our law, the magistrate allows it to be adopted by the partner, who is neither father nor mother, if there is a consolidated emotional relationship. Therefore, Italian legislation already provides for such a case. The so-called bill Cirinna makes the mechanism automatic, with the consequence that everyone will go abroad to become a child (so they do it perfect) and farewell to adoptions: I remember that, already today, the couples regularly married in Italy who ask to adopt a child are 10,000 and that the children adoptable are 1,000 per year. So every year there are 10,000 regularly married couples, who have been authorized by the courts, who have passed the screening of social services, who stand in line and, of these, 1,000 manage to adopt a child and for the other 9,000 there are no children to adopt: they stay in line. Abroad the same happens: 3,600 questions, received 1,800, because the adopted children are few. [[Recalls of the President]] I'm gonna finish. In this situation we, of course, have to go and get the children, who are the ones who give, it is not that one can choose them (maybe they have problems or diseases); imagine that it will happen to children with problems and diseases if you pass the idea that, instead, paying 100,000 euros you can go abroad and take home the selected child eugenetically and, as the contracts say, if the gestation goes badly, they make it abort because the child wants it perfect. This is the debate we would have liked to have had in the Commission. Therefore, Mr President, this debate in the Commission on the draft law we are debating has been totally skipped; there is no precedent throughout the history of the Italian Parliament; there is no precedent in the history of the Senate. The suspensive question presented here, therefore, has the wisdom to say: let us bring the text back to the Commission, let us unravel these issues in the Commission. Otherwise, as with the Fini-Giovanardi law, it is very likely - indeed in my opinion it is certain - that, due to a vice of insanable form, the Court this law, however, will pass, will eventually be forced to cancel it. [[Applause from Senators Formigoni and Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u29	He asked to intervene Senator Marinello to illustrate the suspensive issue QS2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u30	Mr President, the subject we are dealing with has such an impact on society and its dynamics that it cannot be dealt with by majority shots or by ideological forces that do not respect the common sense or the cross-border opinions present in the country. The issue of the recognition of civil unions cannot be addressed with the logic of haste; not always the time and speed of decision are the only parameter of assessment of a norm. Above all, the limited timing of a measure is not a sign of a good quality of standardisation. The correlation between the two aspects is not necessary, let alone obvious. Having made these necessary premises, I quickly retrace the stages of the iter in the Senate. On 12 October 2015, the Senate Act 2081, the subject of this suspension, was incardinated for the first time in the parliamentary debate in the Justice Commission, where it was combined with the Senate Act 14 and others already under discussion in the Commission. On 14 October 2015, a measure that has not been discussed in the Commission on the substance of the matter came to the House. Mostly, it cannot even support the position that the Commission has been examining or examining draft laws on civil unions for more than two years; hypocritical and surreal statement, if we analyse the way in which the work has actually been carried out and, in particular, if we take into account that the examination of the measure could start only after the opinions have been acquired, both on the unified text and on all the amendments tabled, i.e. since 29 July 2015. In short - and it is right that this is clear to all - no more than eight meetings of the Justice Commission on this subject, for no more than ten to twelve hours in total between the explanation of the amendments and the vote on them, without even being able to exhaust Article 1, until today's text, No 2081, which also inserts new issues, which have never been appreciated in the previous texts. Therefore, the text presented to the Commission on 12 October is presented to the House on 14 October, giving much less time to debate than other measures, such as labour reform, school reform or the procurement code, as if this sensitive subject, with all the scenarios that it opens, is or can be considered less relevant than those mentioned. Under the Rules of the Senate, since these were new draft laws, they had to be examined by the Commission, which had to complete the examination within a maximum period of two months, which can be reduced only on the basis of a decision of the President of the Senate. On the contrary, on 12 October 2015, the press agencies, together with the presentation of the text, had released the news of the immediate calendarization in the Hall of the exams of the drafts of law in the matter of civil unions for the following week, revealing an iter in clear violation of the first paragraph of Article 72 of the Constitution and paragraph 1 of Rule 44 of the Rules of our Assembly. Article 72 provides that: Each bill, submitted to a Chamber, is, according to the rules of its rules, examined by a Commission and then by the Chamber itself, which approves it article by article and by final vote. As my previous colleague has already said, all this in clear violation of the Constitution as affirmed by the Constitutional Court in sentence n. 32 of 2014, in which he declares the unconstitutionality of the law Fini-Giovanardi exclusively for procedural vices. The Court held that: This penetrating and incisive reform, involving delicate political, legal and scientific choices, would have required an appropriate parliamentary debate, possible if the ordinary procedures for the formation of the law had been followed, ex Article 72 of the Constitution. He concluded: "Precluding in fact a specific discussion and a proper resolution on the individual aspects of the discipline thus introduced." Not only has there been a lack of comparison between the Senators who are members of the Permanent Commission, but the opinion of the Bicameral Committee on Children, which is institutionally empowered to contribute to the matter, has also failed to hear at the hearing other institutionally relevant actors, such as the representatives of the Commission for International Adoptions of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, and private actors who have long been engaged in the field of adoptions. It seems quite clear that this is not just described the way in which a measure of such important and above all so ethically sensitive and divisive content is adopted. Especially at a time when the content of the bill contains controversial aspects that I am going to briefly set out. In the first place, civil unions are regulated in terms largely superimposed on the matrimonial institution. In this context, the address of the Council is oriented towards the need to produce for civil unions a separate and distant regulation compared to the provisions and protected by Article 29 of the Constitution, namely the family based on the union of a man and a woman; on this issue, it seems a fictio iuris, to identify the civil union as a specific social formation, distinct from the traditional family, except then explicitly to recall for it all the references of the civil code on the discipline of the family. Of the two: either civil union is considered to be a separate social formation and consequently any reference to the articles of the Civil Code on Marriage and the traditional family is removed from the text or, on the contrary, is equivalent to the same. Second critical point. Article 5 of the draft law extends a method of adoption, which has so far covered the very limited hypotheses referred to in Article 44 (b) of Law No 184 of 1983, realizing what is called stepchild adoption: the adoption of the biological child of the component of civil union, is closely linked to the theme of homogenitality, which has been left a little aside. Yet one cannot help but face it since the law, if it were passed without removing the part dedicated to stepchild adoption even in the various versions of the study, would in fact introduce homogenitality into the Italian legal system. For a child, is there really no difference between having two dads or two moms, or two heterosexual parents, that is, a father and a mother? The hypothesis of a homogenital family based on the bond between two individuals of the same sex, where one would act as a father and the other as a mother, in fact denies the status of mother and father. It is an anatomical, biological, cultural, anthropological negation, but above all symbolic. All this will not be without psychic consequences for the son or daughter: the construction of sexual identity, the difference between the sexes, the myth of the origins falters. The structure of kinship, genealogy, sonship, transmission from one generation to the next, is debarred. We understand the different sensibilities but desires and possibilities cannot automatically turn into rights. There is no right to have a child but the right of all children to have a father with a mother. In fact, in the course of the psychic formation of an individual, the family history, its narrative and its narrative is fundamental: the story of origin, the reference to a genealogy, the structuring of an identity that has its roots in the encounter between a man and a woman. In the case of a gay couple, who tried to have a child at all costs, the theme of origin remains entangled in a symbolic dissipation where places and functions are confused and contradictory. The node is that love is not enough, it is an indispensable condition, but not enough to establish the parental figure. If the possibility, for a child or a child, of being in a process of identification with the parent of the same sex fails, the psychic consequences will be serious. Raising a child in homogenitality means subjecting him to a vast psychic work with respect to the acquisition of his sexual identity and more generally with respect to his subjectivity easily exposed to an identity drift. The theme of homogenitality is also linked to the practices of surrogacy and the uterus for rent. Not to foresee in the bill specific norms on the topic would be to feed surreptitiously these practices and favor them especially in the foreign countries where the commodification of women and motherhood is now common practice: neo-prostitution, neo-slavery, neo-exploitation of the rich on the poor. And what about the aberrant concept that would result: no more procreation but production of life; the choice of characteristics of the born up to eugenics. I believe that we are moving towards criminal behavior that is capable of forming real universal crimes. All these controversial aspects should be analysed and discussed in depth, carefully and in a thoughtful way. Times are not yet ready for consideration by this House. We therefore call for a suspension of the analysis of the measure, a postponement, even in time, to the Commission of justice, in order to deepen all the controversial aspects of the text on the substance and in depth, with the hope of being able to reach a mediation. In the event that our request is rejected, we call on President Grasso, as the referee and guarantor of all the members of this House, to ensure that the time taken to analyse the measure is adequate, there are no bottlenecks and forcings, in homage to the rampant hypocritical and minority conformism in the country that wants to make it appear as emerging issues that, as already illustrated, need absolute weighting. Mr President, we trust in you, in your wisdom, and sincerely hope that there will be no Pilate's inclinations in the coming Lenten period. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u31	He asked Senator Centinario to explain the suspensive question QS3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u32	Mr President, first of all we think that this issue creates a huge debate in the country. At the moment, however, we do not want to go into the reasons and ideas that each of us has about the content of this measure, but we simply want to make it clear to our colleagues why it must go back to the Commission. In our opinion, the debate in the country distracts attention from the real problems that Italian citizens live: ten million Italians are below the poverty line, more than 40% of young people are unemployed and all these people are heterosexual, homosexual and everything you want. These are the real problems that people experience, not the Cirinna measure, which serves only to distract public opinion from the real problems of the country, as in the times Mazzola and Rivera, Inter and Milan, Rome and Lazio. It is necessary to divide Italian citizens on a measure so that they do not see what the Government is not doing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, there have been seventy meetings of the Commission in which we have not entered into the specific issues of the measure in question and, after those seventy sessions, suddenly, without anyone at the time understanding why, in October, there was a huge unprecedented acceleration: a new bill, an illustration at a night sitting on 12 October, on 13 October the calendarization at the Conference of the Capigroup and on 14 October the poor Senator Palma announced to the Commission that he would go to the Chamber without a rapporteur. Without whether or not, no one has been allowed to go on dealing with this measure. At one stroke, colleagues, Rule 72 of the Constitution and Rule 44 of the Senate Rules of Procedure are violated. We have not shortened the time for discussion: we have reset them, which is quite different. Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, has once again been humiliated in its powers, with once again President Renzi trying, at least this time in vain, to influence the debate. Unfortunately - it must always be said - when we talk about important issues and issues in these classrooms, we always try to silence the parliamentarians and there is always the foreman on duty, as we also saw the last time he came to the Chamber to do the phenomenon and then left the poor Minister Boschi to suffer only the accusations against the government. If you are a team you are all together, and not only when the President of the Council speaks, and then leave it alone. I am sorry on a human level for the Minister who, unfortunately, has to follow a foreman of that type. But again, and fortunately, the President of the Council and his statements have been sent back to the sender. We enter into the main topics of the bill, the first of which is the regulation of civil unions between persons of the same sex, which regulates the same by overlapping them with the marriage institution. The Consulta - and, therefore, not the League, the New Right Center or the associations that are protesting - has expressly indicated the need to produce a regulation of the unions, distinct and distant from the provisions of Article 29 of the Constitution, not equal. Learn Italian, since you're all professors [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The family is a natural society: 'natural' means'man and woman': 'yes', 'woman and woman': 'no' - I'm sorry for you -'man and man': 'no'. When it comes to natural, it's the word itself that says it. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, for the rainbows, I am sorry for the modern shift workers who want to open up to everything that is not a natural society. But at this point, when civil unions are indicated, who will assume the right to decide which civil union is civil and which is not civil? Is the union between people of the same sex only civilized? Do you think so? Or people of different sex? Do you think so? Maybe there are Italian citizens who believe that it is also civil. And you have received the e-mails of Italian citizens who, at this moment, tell us that for them - for example - polygamy is civilized. Dear Renzi, since you are so open, you also civilize polygamy for your non-EU friends who have arrived in Italy. CARDINALI (PD). Stop! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). When we talk, Mr President, about adoptions, there is another important fact: no amendments could be adopted in the Commission on this subject. Rule 5 was not yet in force, it had not been dealt with in general discussion or when the amendments were being voted on. Why didn't you want to go further? Why didn't you expect auditions? Why hasn't the bicameral committee's opinion been heard? There are restrictive rules on adoption. Why not also analyse the adoption rules, since thousands of Italian heterosexual families want to adopt a child and restrictive rules prevent it? Children's lives, ma'am, are serious. You can't treat adoption as a concession to someone's whim. Again, when the Constitution speaks of the right of a child to have a family, it oversees a family made up of a father and a mother, duplicity of parental figures and not duplication of the same figure: a father and a mother, as well specified. 11.35 a.m. (continued HUNDREDDAY). I understand, Mr President, that the President-in-Office of the Council can do miracles. By now we are almost there to multiply the loaves and fishes and cross the Strait of Messina on foot. Dear Senators, however, a child is born of a mother and a father. If you are able to reproduce in another way, explain how you do it, but normally the reproduction takes place between a man and a woman. So, Mr President, our proposal is to return to the Commission, where we can calmly address this issue and bring to the attention of our fellow citizens a measure which will not be rejected by the Court in a few months' time. On Saturday there will be a big demonstration in the square, a demonstration where many Italian families will tell this majority and the rest of Italians how they think: families who will share this experience with us and how we think that the family is made by a mother, a dad and - if they are lucky to have him - by a son. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Formigoni and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u33	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single discussion will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and will be open to one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u36	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, the suspensive issue is an attempt to find a minimum of common denominator since, on many issues, a way out is probably also feasible and can be found. Let's start by saying that the text we are discussing can be divided into two big blocks: the part that regulates de facto couples and the other that regulates civil unions. As far as couples are concerned, today there is indeed a lack of a regulatory complex governing the rights of those who decide not to marry, but to live together. There are many reasons for living together. And we can say that he has made up for the lack of mandatory rules a legal right. It is true that case law could also be interpreted from court to court or from court to court in a different way and, therefore, would not give sufficient guarantees. The fact of grouping together a number of rights to be recognised by all couples in fact I suppose everyone agrees. The League agrees on this; much of the center-right agrees; probably even the left will be. It can be established that, in case of illness, the cohabitant has the same rights as the spouse (being able to assist, visit and even make the provisions of last will instead of the cohabitant, who is not able to dispose at that time independently). There's been talk of prison visits. The cohabitant has no relation whatsoever. It could be established that the cohabitant also has this faculty. Already the jurisprudence states that, in the event of the death of one of the cohabitants, the other must not depart from the house of common habitation, but have the possibility to take over by law, even if he was not the tenant, in the lease. In the case of benefits in the event of damage, the insurance companies already grant the partner, equal to the spouse, a right to compensation in the event of damage or death of the partner. Insiemistics about couples do not find any problem to be defined and codified in a text on which we basically agree. There is still some slight differentiation on the question of successions with regard to the survivor's pension, but this is also a marginal problem. We could establish that, in certain situations, after two appear to have lived together for the rest of our lives, the fact that the marriage bond is missing can be overcome by establishing that there is, however, a right to take over in these cases the reversibility. All right, here we go. Why not focus on recognizing this to all couples? Little changes - we do not enter the bedroom or the houses of the Italians - whether the couple is made up of two people of the same sex or of different sex. It may not create differentiations or major problems. The problems arise when, together with the regulation of the rights of all the people who want to be together, civil unions are inserted - this is deflagrating -. In parallel, civil unions want to regulate themselves with the same rules that govern marriage. Some say that if we recognize the union between people of the same sex, we must equalize it with a heterosexual couple. If we stop here, maybe we can work something out. But since, for two persons of the same sex, the only biological and natural bond is that they cannot procreate, if they are equal to a marriage union, they must consequently be allowed what they cannot do naturally: if they cannot procreate, they must be allowed to adopt. And here begin the great problems, partly ideological and partly cultural. There are those who are willing to do anything, to open doors and windows, and those who are not willing to go on an intricate and paved way of issues and problems that we cannot even imagine today. Let us think about what would happen if we were to recognize civil union to two men of the same sex and also the right to have children. What do two boys, two people of the same sex have to do if they want a child? It is an aberrant thing: in the law you have written that they must resort to a surrogate mother. GATTI (PD). Who told you that? DIVINE (LN-Aut). What does a surrogate mother mean? We all agree that prostitution is a blameworthy thing, not a crime, but morally condemned, just as exploitation and those who are behind it are condemned. But, if it is reprehensible to exploit a woman for a few hours, how can we allow, as if it were a normal thing, to exploit a woman for nine months, who then has to get rid of the child and hand it over to someone? More: it may also be that that lady is not even the biological mother, because it is possible to take an oocyte and, after having it inseminated, transplant it into her who becomes a surrogate mother. What a word! It gets the hair on the skin. Then this woman will get rid of her son and entrust him to the couple she has decided to daughter. I try to think about what could happen if then the biological mother were to claim the son or if the surrogate mother, who for nine months made him grow and maybe nursed him, should also claim him as her own. We all know the story of King Solomon, who was faced with two women claiming the same son. Salomonically the king decided, having no elements to attribute it to one or the other, to divide his son in half. We know the continuation of the story: the real mother, rather than seeing her son shredded, decided to leave him to the other woman. Well, we know the story. But we're legislators. At this moment, each one of us is a small King Solomon and must put himself in the position of having to decide. It might happen that the biological mother says she wants that son, that the mother who gave birth to him also says that she wants him and the couple to whom he was attributed, and with whom he may have grown up, say that it is up to them, because the law at this moment has given them such a faculty. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish your speech, Senator Divine. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I'm gonna finish. I, horrified, would never want to find myself in the situation of Solomon who has to determine who to attribute a child to. This is a door - allow me - that we cannot afford the luxury to open, because we do not know where it leads us and where we might get to. Excuse me, it's an exaggeration, but not a lot. Yesterday the agencies - you will have read them - beat a limited case: a woman had to operate and became a man, a man had to operate and became a woman, and they declared that they wanted to marry - legally a woman and a man can get married - and that they also wanted children. I'm gonna stop here, the news was beaten yesterday by ANSA. If we get on this ground, we don't know where we're going and we won't even know how to get out of it anymore. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Divine Senator. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I shall conclude, Madam President. It does not exist and it is not written anywhere that there is the right to have children. I repeat that it is neither written biologically nor legally. Children are a divine grace, a gift from God. Even so many normal families would like to have children and resort to some help, but children are a gift. Because selfishly we must put before all the will of a couple, of whatever sex it is, to pretend to have a child and instead we do not think about the rights of children to have normal families, where to grow up normally [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] , in which to have the reference of the masculine and the feminine, to have a growth not only biological but also total psychological and the best context in which to live? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Divine Senator, you exceeded your time by three minutes. DIVINE (LN-Aut). At this moment, since we never talk about this, we would like to remember that there are also children to protect, and not just the selfish rights of people to have them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u39	Mr Bondi (AL-A). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is the most beautiful and exciting moment of the parliamentary debate, exalted by the freedom of conscience that each of us can at last witness in this House, beyond belonging to different political forces. In my opinion, the draft law under consideration is not only not unconstitutional, but the Constitution observes the letter and the deepest spirit. The recognition of civil unions, in fact, finally eliminates all discrimination against Italian citizens. The adoption of this law will finally make Italy a more modern country, more civil and at the same time less bigoted, less hypocritical and less clerical. We will have a more secular state and, precisely for this reason, people will be able to witness more freely and independently their religious and cultural values. I take the floor as a Christian full of doubts and, mostly, with so many unanswered questions. But is it not the doubt, that lives in the most intimate part of our conscience, the sign of a search, of a faith that is not a reassuring doctrine but a constant thorn in the attempt to give meaning to life? Precisely as a Christian lamenting a Church that, despite the openings of Pope Francis, still remains stuck on positions that do not reconcile with modern consciousness. And always as a Christian I am not afraid to admit that Italy's backwardness in terms of rights and modernity is also explained by the conservatism and political clericalism of a part of Catholic culture; a clerical conservatism which also - as we see in this House, in the debate on the press and in Parliament - on the birth and existence in Italy of an authentically liberal party, of an authentically liberal right which, as you can see, has disappeared. On this bill, as on other issues relating to bioethics, starting with the biological will, it is a statement, a fact, to say that Parliament struggles to legislate and, when it does, it produces laws so conditioned by political ideologies and, sometimes, by the undue interference of the Catholic Church - I can say it from direct experience - that the laws almost never exceed the examination of the Constitutional Court. Law No. 40 of 2004 is a striking demonstration of this - a law that, unfortunately, I personally helped to approve - and it is not worth taking it out on the magistrates if they make bad laws, which also deny rights that have been in force in most civil countries for years. I believe that the conscience of the country has changed profoundly and I also believe that the influence of this Pope is destined to radically change Catholic culture in Italy. Personally, I hope that Parliament will approve this draft law, which is a step forward at this time. And I do not exclude - indeed I hope - that some good amendments, such as those signed at first by Senators Lumia, Faithful, Marcucci or Pagliari (to name a few), can improve this text and eliminate oppositions that do not reflect the conscience of the majority of citizens, even Catholics. Nobody's questioning the traditional family here. No one makes the apology of the uterus for rent. And no one wants to open up to adoptions, even for homosexual couples, without rules and without limits. All this is part of a habit, inveterated, unfortunately, in Italy, to extreme positions, while instead on these problems should be open to the new and if anything seek points of encounter. At the same time, I believe that the family as we know it is changing, and I am convinced that what is really important is the civilization of relations that bind two people and their relationship with their children. Real life - anyone who has had a family knows this - generally shattered our prejudices and widespread beliefs. And I also venture to say that, even if priests could marry, they would better understand what a family is, for better or for worse. [[Senator Candiani's laughter.]] In Italy soon, same-sex marriages and the possibility to adopt children will be a normal fact. And then there will be those who will make the usual mea culpa, many years later, admitting, even in the Church, that they have understood the changes of society late. I conclude by saying that those who have faith and who profess a religious belief have every opportunity to put their beliefs into practice without claiming that they are valid for all. The divine plan - I allow myself to say it and to speak with Cardinal Bagnasco - if there is, it should not be written into the laws, according to an integralist conception, which concerns me in the Italian Church. But a drawing, if any, must be written into our conscience and our personal behavior. This will take away the political collateralisms, finally, in Italy, and will put at the centre our personal conscience, even of believers, and the fruits that it will be able to bear even in the public sphere. [[Applause from the AL-A, PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Mixed Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u42	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Madam President, I have to say that it is good to hear voices in this debate that stick to the substance of the matter and not just those that politicize it in the worst sense of the term, in the sense of seeking consensus, of creating opposing groups, in the sense of defining wars of civilization. What we are going to discuss is an extremely concrete theme for many Italian citizens: it is the theme of seeing their relationship recognized and protected, the theme of seeing the son of the couple protected - so is seen the son of the partner - even where their partner should fail. I have heard of the rights of children, but I have the impression that those who have tried to defend them, among the colleagues who have submitted the prejudices, have stuck to an abstract idea of a child, to their own idea of a child, without thinking of all those who - as I have heard on many occasions - have found themselves tossed in the classrooms of justice, between parts that considered them as their own thing. A child must arrive in front of a judge only and exclusively in dramatic and uneliminable cases. Therefore, it seems absolutely right and correct what is provided for by the Cirinna bill in terms of automation. So it is right that, where one member of the couple is missing, the child should be followed by the other, who is a parent. Parentality can also be a physical and biological fact, but it is mainly constituted by care, concern, fear for everything that can happen to the child, at every moment of his life, by paving the way for him or, at least, by trying to do so. And all this is not ascribed to sex, to being male or female, but to something much stronger and more intimate: it is ascribed to love. The politicization of this theme is something quite frankly unpleasant, because it passes over the concrete lives of people, which are almost never attributable to normality. Those who have studied a minimum of anthropology know that normality, which is a concept linked to a culture and a society, covers extremely varied case studies. There are thousands of ways to be a mother, to be a father and to be a parent. The fact of wanting to write it to the idea of the mother who stays at home while the dad is at work testifies to a very old conception. Someone should, therefore, take responsibility for the fact that history is walking, that society is changing and that law must accompany the meaning of things, that exist in society, because otherwise it does not do its own work. The famous principle for which everything flows is not an abstract philosophical principle, but something that is, continuously, in society. And the desire to cling to an idea of normality that reassures, inappropriately, made of a mother and a father from American advertising of the fifties does not help, just as it does not help the desire to make confusion. The natural society of which the Constitution speaks is not that between male and female, but that which precedes the law. That's another thing! Let us try to imagine, then, what is good for children, that good to which we all declare that we aspire. Let us imagine, then, a child alone in an institution or a child taken from one of the members of the couple with whom he grew up, to have him raised by a beautiful normal family, a normal grandfather or a normal aunt. Well, if I felt responsible for such a situation, I would feel crushed. Therefore, the defenses of abstract models are not good politics, they are not, nor do they become good when they are comforted by thousands and thousands of pre-written e-mails, i.e. written before and sent to the parliamentarians of all sides, nor do they become better policy when certain companies decide, for internal reasons related to their political sponsors, to make discounts for those citizens who will go to Rome to the great demonstration for the family. I remember that in various cities, last week, a great piece of Italy, of homoparental families, of LGBT people but also of heterosexuals has gathered to tell politics that it is the case that it wakes up and overcomes the opposition between Guelphs and Ghibellines that lasts for more than a thousand years in Italy. And, frankly, it would be appropriate for it to end up being Western, even for everything that the West has produced positive in terms of the evolution of the representation of society, and not only when it means being liberal and neo-capitalist. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u45	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I checked the Minutes of yesterday's sitting where it is said that, at today's sitting, there would be an illustration of the suspensive and prejudiced issues and that the vote would be postponed until Tuesday. So, Mr President, I would ask you that at least the groups that think it is possible to speak on Tuesday, since the debate was not scheduled for today. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There's no problem with that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u48	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Madam President, yesterday I asked the Presidency explicitly what would happen this morning and I was told that there would only be an explanation of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and that the debate would take place on Tuesday. I therefore had to register to speak in a hurry when I was told, instead, that the debate would take place this morning. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is not a problem: if you prefer to speak on Tuesday, I will give you the floor on Tuesday. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u51	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would also like to speak on Tuesday. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u54	LO MORO (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are many subjects and there is little time. So on some points I will necessarily be brief because I would like to be as comprehensive as possible. I would like to start with the procedural aspect, which is what I think is easier not to liquidate but to deal with. In fact, after the civil unions had spoken on this subject for seventy sessions in a very crowded Commission; after twenty sessions there was talk of the basic text; after dozens and dozens of hearings to which all the parliamentary groups contributed; After an obvious obstructionism has not allowed us to go further to the Commission, I find it misleading to speak in this Chamber today of non-respect for Rule 72. It seems to me that we want to appeal here too, obviously continuing in a obstructive attitude, to the formal aspects that have also been overcome at the Conference of Leaders, because it is at that time, at the Conference of Leaders, that the basic text that is under discussion today has been chosen. There has therefore been no violation of either Article 72 of the Constitution or of regulations and those who are still appealing to such a matter, to highlight a clear, in reality non-existent, unconstitutional nature of the measure or to request its return to the Commission, because they do not want a very simple thing, namely that we talk about this issue. I come to the simplest issues to deal with. There has been talk of a violation of Article 81 of the Constitution, and it seems strange to me that we should talk about it - there are those who do so with arguments - when there is a report that says otherwise. So, I'm not going to go any further on this either. Let us go to the merits of the affair that we are passionate about and should fascinate all Italians, because Parliament has to decide on a bill of parliamentary origin that has to do with citizens' rights. And perhaps those who call for attention to the problems of citizens should never forget that the problem of problems is the recognition of rights. The recognition of rights is even a prerequisite for discussing anything else, because having rights and having them recognised puts in a condition of livability and normality the citizens that these rights are often sacrificed instead. What are we doing today with this bill? We are filling a deficit in the protection of the rights of homosexual couples. I'm not just saying that, and I'm sorry to have to say it as an ex-magistrate. Many people in this House are constantly calling on the judiciary. Even today, in putting forward the proposals for a preliminary ruling, more than anyone has spoken of a looming judiciary, which fits into our arguments and often goes beyond the mediation points that the legislator finds. The legislator should, however, question the reason why the judiciary has this role, because one thing is certain and irrefutable: the judiciary that has intervened on the subject - not only the Constitutional Court, but also the Court of Cassation in united sections - has spoken and argued, with strongly motivated judgments, not against the Constitution, but on the basis of it. So what we and everyone who appreciates the Constitution, especially in the fundamental part, need to be clear is that when we read, discuss and interpret something that was written by the Supreme Court and, of course, even more so, by the Constitutional Court, we are talking about something that is in application of the Constitution. The fact that it was the Constitutional Court, on several occasions, especially with the fundamental judgment that everyone has recalled, that asked the legislator to overcome the deficit, should make us think. Of course, that sentence was invoked and used differently. Some have stopped especially on point 8, perhaps to give him a different interpretation than I give him. There are those who, on the other hand, have focused on point 9, where it creates (not ardently) and maintains the distinction between Article 2 (i.e. the rule on social formations, which we are applying today) and Article 29 of the Constitution. But point 8 also marks a point of no return for the legislator and has conditioned the case law of merit. Point 8 shows us, in fact, a path, saying basically two things, the first of which is that we have to legislate. In addition, it also gives us an indication of how we can do this, and indeed we must do so. Today, in fact, it has become necessary to intervene, because we are even the subject of European calls on this subject and therefore - I repeat - our intervention has become a necessity. As I said, the Constitutional Court tells us how we can do this. Of course, it keeps Article 29 as it is. And we could discuss this too, but it is not the time, nor the place, even if I personally would. The Constitutional Court tells us - for example - that there is no doubt that one way forward is to implement and apply Article 2 of the Constitution. However, in saying it, the Constitutional Court uses words that I want to reread, and I don't want to seem pedantic, but words make sense. "In this notion," says the Court, speaking of social formations, "the homosexual union, understood as a stable coexistence between two persons of the same sex, with the fundamental right to live freely as a couple, obtaining legal recognition with the related rights and duties, should also be included. So the Court, in its modernity and in its present day, although this is a 2010 pronunciation - and so many things have changed in society and in Europe since 2010 - tells us one fundamental thing: there is homosexual union, for those who did not notice it (but often, when we speak ideologically, we say many things that are not known and that are not corresponding to the truth). In addition, we talk about couples, introducing a very precise concept: we are talking about two people living as couples, about a stable emotional relationship, which determines a coexistence supported by an emotional bond. This is a couple; it is not a tout court cohabitation, it is not two that are together in a house; it is two that are together in a house and constitute a couple because they have a common life project, supported by a strong affective relationship, so it is also lasting. I say this because I want to refer to another point. Many concepts have been mentioned, but one has escaped and a colleague has talked about it and then denied it. The Court of Cassation, in united sections, spoke of family life; therefore the concepts are: couple, homosexual relationship, project of life and also family life. To those who invoke Article 29 of the Constitution as an obstacle I would like to remind them that the same jurisprudence now speaks of family life, therefore of family life, no longer referring exclusively to the man and woman who are married, but also to those who have a family life plan. Going beyond - time is little - it was said that the norms of the civil code should not be recalled tout court, but that it was necessary to rediscipline. We forget, however, that in the consistent case-law of the Constitutional Court it is one thing to approve and one thing is to bring the rules together. If many norms are the same, it's because we talk about couples, and that's why I wanted to call them back. But how could one fail to recall - for example - the rules concerning interdictive causes and successor rights? We're talking about two people having an emotional relationship. There is, therefore, an approach and there is obviously - without approval, but there is - one thing that the two spouses and the two partners of a civil union have in common: it is a couple. Again. It has been said that Articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution would be violated because adoptions are allowed. It is useless for me to dwell, because I do not have time, on the fact that we are not talking here about adoptions but about options in particular cases, namely Article 44 of the Adoptions Act. I cannot dwell on the fact that the case law has already introduced them on a reasoned basis. I must say that there was no need for paragraph 5, because replacing the word "spouse" with the word "partner" of the civil union was the same result. This text has the gift of clarity, it is not ideological, but it speaks clearly. Therefore, as one spouse is allowed to adopt the child of the other, the partner of the civil union is allowed to adopt the child, the child of the other. We're talking about real-life children. But what love do you call upon your children when you speak? We're talking about kids who exist. It is invoked, as a fear to take on the Italians or I do not know for what other reason, the uterus for rent. But do you ignore - you certainly do not ignore it - that the uterus for rent is forbidden and is a crime in Italian law? You can't ignore that. But do you ignore, perhaps, or do you want to ignore, that for more than 95 cases to the uterus for rent (and, when not formally to this, to practices of the same kind) heterosexual couples resort? So much so: heterosexual couples have this right to have children, while homosexual couples would not have children. But why? What's the difference? The difference between being good parents and not being good parents is not being male and female or of the same sex. Being a good parent is a matter of substance [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] And a woman who has also been a magistrate and has seen so many discriminations tells you. I tell you as a woman who has seen how children are treated in the most Catholic Italian families. How much violence, how many feminicides, how much discrimination! [[Applause from the PD, Mixed and AL-A Groups]] Then no more hypocrisy. We are not talking about the possibility that a partner, united with civil union with another person of the same sex, acquires rights, but that the right is granted to the child, who has the right to have two parents and to rely on both. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). You buy the kids! [[Senator Giovanardi mimics the gesture of sale. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u55	Senator Giovanardi, please don't do that.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u56	LO MORO (PD). For many reasons, on which I cannot extend myself because the time available to me is over, I must say, in a convincing and quiet way, that I am really proud that the Democratic Group will vote, in a compact, and without any defiance, against the questions of prejudice and against the suspensive issues. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed and AL-A Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u59	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to know why you referred to Senator Giovanardi. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He was making a gesture that mimicked the sale. [[Protests from Forza Italia and GAL groups(GS, PpI, M, MBI, Id, E-E).]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). But is everything else going on in this House okay? Just because the subject is dear to you, can't you even make a gesture? I didn't notice the gesture. If he can't be impartial, at least pretend! [[Protests from PD, Mixed and AL-A groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u60	A senator was intervening. And you know very well that I always call any person, from any party, when he interrupts who is intervening or when he makes gestures he does not agree with the behavior that must be held in this House. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). You want to buy the kids! That's what you want to do! We're introducing child slavery. It's a shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, please, you don't need to do this. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). And don't you dare tell me what to do! [[Protests from PD, Mixed and AL-A groups.]] Don't talk to the Presidency like that! I only told Senator Giovanardi not to do those gestures and to continue Senator Lo Moro, which is normal in a civil assembly of people who listen. As already announced to the House at yesterday's sitting, on the basis of the Conference of Leaders, the vote on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling will take place at Tuesday, 2 February. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u63	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I just wanted to stigmatize the decision not to speak today and postpone the vote until Tuesday. Since we do not vote today, with a choice that we do not agree with, but that was actually made, this morning we could at least conclude the whole general debate, leaving out those colleagues who could not be present today for the reasons we know. In this way, fellow detractors and opponents of this law, who are being taunted in the Chamber, could also have intervened quietly. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In this way, they occupied this time which, otherwise, is wasted and could conclude their considerations, since it has been months, Madam President, that these gentlemen talk to us about these issues. And then we do not go into the matter, because if we are to talk about constitutionality, the amendments I have read in the Constitutional Commission really have nothing. I would prefer, if possible, for this debate to continue today so that on Tuesday, with very few amendments, we can vote and close the measure, because, really, we just want to vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u64	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the choir of the municipal police of Florence, which is witnessing our work [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u67	VALDINOSE (PD). Madam President, I would like to point out that my speech should have taken place yesterday, but unfortunately it was not possible. The Memory Day celebrated yesterday has a profound meaning and a great value. It has brought the attention and reflection, in the many initiatives that have taken place in our schools, in the cities and communities of our country, on the greatest tragedy of the twentieth century, the massacre of millions of Jews, Roma, synths, homosexuals, disabled people and political opponents in Nazi lagers. And yesterday we also remembered, as the President of the Republic of Mattarella pointed out, also the shame of the racial laws wanted by fascism in Italy in 1938. The day dedicated to memory calls us all to the responsibility of blocking every possible regurgitation of the ideologies that led to the affirmation in the heart of Europe of the use of violence, of oppression, of the elimination of different, of opponents and of entire human groups. Primo Levi, the great Italian writer deported and survived the Auschwitz camp, in his book "I sommersi e i salvati" wrote: It has happened, so it can happen again: this is the core of what we have to say. For this reason I chose Memory Day to present a bill to counter the increasingly widespread phenomenon of production and marketing of gadgets that reproduce symbols and slogans related to Nazi Fascism. The marketing of explicitly evocative images or slogans of the fascist or Nazi-fascist regime is assuming, in particular in some parts of our country, a worrying and unacceptable dimension. Especially in Romagna, the land of origin of Mussolini, the number of shops that exhibit and sell various gadgets that reproduce symbols and effigies of the dissolved Fascist Party has expanded. Such activity cannot be debilitated to a mere fact of folklore, because, through the exhibition, the sale and the diffusion of objects, images and slogans that recall content and fascist ideologies, it actually plays an apologetic and propagandistic function. Several news reports have reported the confusion and the denunciation by tourists traveling to our country in front of windows that publicly expose objects or images that refer to such ideologies. This also affects the credibility of our country: our visitors, in fact, do not know how in Italy it is possible to consider folklore what in their country would be considered an outrage. One of the reports goes back to last summer, when the phenomenon was brought to the attention of the institutions by the denunciation of two U.S. citizens, of Jewish origin, visiting in Rimini. It is well known, however, the volume of business that revolves around this production, because on-site sales have been accompanied by telematics. In conclusion, I would like to stress that we must combat this phenomenon, making it explicitly illegal and punishable. That is why I have tabled a draft law signed by some 50 colleagues from the PD Group and I wanted to talk about it in this House to invite other Members to sign it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u70	CATALFO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last week's press report on an operation by the Carabinieri in Licata led to the arrest of one person, Caterina Federico, a 32-year-old social worker, manager of a children's home. In the context of the operation, eight other persons would be investigated at the same time, including the President of the City Council of Favara, Salvatore Lupo, as the sole legal representative of the Sami ONLUS cooperative that manages the center. The arrests originate from a long investigation by the Carabinieri and the Agrigento Public Prosecutor that has brought to light abuses and harassment against disabled children, perpetrated by the operators of the Licate structure over the years. From the news it seems that it was a real house of horrors, a torment that the children were forced to suffer daily by the assistants who transformed, behind the protection of the domestic walls, into real torturers. As punishment for having eaten a snack the children were tied hands and feet with scotch to a chair, covered with a cloth and forced to suffer repeated physical violence or to eat their own excrement. A boy was tied day and night with chains and locks to the metal structure of his own bed. These are the reconstructions that provide us and that go to outline this structure as a real lager. The protection of the health and physical integrity of the person is a constitutionally protected value, all the more so when we talk about children with physical and cognitive deficits. I believe that it is our responsibility and responsibility for this House too to strongly condemn what has happened in that house. The 5 Star Movement, together with the 5 Star Movement of Favara, calls for the immediate resignation of the President of the City Council of Favara, Mr Lupo, as we consider unworthy that a person who has a public responsibility as President of the City Council and who should be a representative of the people stain himself with such a misdeeds. I ask the whole House to take responsibility for this and to protect the rights of these disabled children who have been subjected to violence against them. I thank you and ask everyone, including the members of the New Right Center (I know that there has been an adviser to the New Right Centre who has declared his solidarity with the President of the Council of Favara), to take charge of this situation and help these disabled children and their families, since the same cooperative also works in another town in the province of Agrigento, where it has another headquarters. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u73	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Madam President, these days we often hear of the need to pay close attention to the feeding of children in order to prevent the very serious diseases that are now becoming increasingly widespread in so-called global society. We are talking about the protection and promotion of local products. We're talking about preventive medicine. However, we should perhaps become more mature in the selection of products and in the necessary imposition of more effective forms of control, including in terms of information requirements. Well, it is curious to see how on the counters of one of the many IKEA stores candies are sold containing animal scraps of pork and beef. The famous Stora Hjartan, or raspberry jelly, are produced with pork jelly. The same applies to Strawberry Dream, i.e. strawberry-flavoured foams, even containing pork scraps; and also to Gelehallon, i.e. jelly sugared to the taste of raspberry, always filled with pork gelatin. But there are also the Winegums that contain beef jelly. We could continue: this on the IKEA stores on the way out of the coffers. Yes, Mr President, distinguished colleagues, I wonder whether it is correct to give our children pork candy. Grandparents used to give grandkids fruit jelly, today we give our kids pork scraps. And this is not in a dark dungeon of an irregular warehouse run by non-EU citizens, but in the noble malls of a North European company famous all over the world. The 5 Star Movement intends to engage in a battle without frontiers to protect the health of our children, a battle that must start precisely from these small episodes of great food incivilization. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u76	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, we are calling for a ministerial table to be set up on the Alenia issue and the risk of closure of the plant in Nola, in the province of Naples. You can't waste any more time. In the Campania Region we have already, as 5 Star Movement, tabled a motion for the safeguard of the occupational levels and of the sites of high specialization of the Alenia plants in Campania and also to avoid the relocation. Finmeccanica has turned Alenia into one of the divisions of its One Company. It is a data that worries, given the closure already in 2013 of the plant of Casoria, in the province of Naples, and the sale, in the last eighteen months, of the Alenia plant of Capodichino. President, the transformation into One Company creates a real risk for the Nola site, where 800 workers are currently employed. The problem is much more serious and serious than it appears, because this Government, in our opinion, has no attention for the South and, let alone, for Campania. The most serious danger is the migration of the engineering sections, therefore of the brains and of the research, and also of the design sector, leaving in Campania simply the production sites, because, in reality, we know very well that the production can be easily relocated where the cost of the work is less. This of course - it doesn't take a magician to understand it - would greatly impoverish our territory, where we have excellences. We therefore consider it necessary that the Government immediately accepts the proposal to open a table in the Campania Region. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-567.ana.u77	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.34 p.m.
