ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 21 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with her the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, as is unfortunately known to all of you, innocent people in France have also been victims of terrorist violence this morning. The episode this time happened in a church near Rouen during the morning mass. The competent authorities are still carrying out the necessary investigations. It dismays the fact that, in the heart of Europe, a place of worship has been violated and the representatives and faithful of a religious confession have been deliberately attacked. Last week Germany, in particular Bavaria, was also the scene of attacks and violence, which shocked us in the depths: first an ax attack on a regional train, then the massacre of teenagers in the shopping center of Munich, then the suicide bombing in Ansbach on the occasion of a concert. These are things that follow without truce and Europe, but also other countries outside Europe, seem to be affected by a vortex of violent aggression, almost to want to undermine the foundations of civilization and peace on which our history rests and on which we want our future to be founded. In Kabul, three days ago, a terrorist attack caused at least 80 deaths and more than 230 wounded, while the news that comes from the war scenarios goes beyond imaginable horror and that this time are really unacceptable facts, such as bombings aimed explicitly at targeting paediatric hospitals. The unjustifiable violence that has affected the places of aggregation and prayer affects all of us, disrupts our feelings and disorients all European citizens. In these days of pain and dismay, the Senate is close to the institutions and citizens of all affected countries. In expressing the condolences of this House for all the victims of this fierce violence, I call on you to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2483, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Fabbri and Orellana, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Fabbri.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report on this measure, for my part, relates to aspects related to financial and contractual obligations, starting with Article 1 (1), where action is taken with regard to the repayment of the loan of EUR 300 million by the extraordinary administration. In this regard, it is recalled that Decree-Law No 191 of 2015 ordered the payment of the sum of 300 million euros, which is essential to meet the indivisible financial needs of the ILVA Group in extraordinary administration, i.e. to allow extraordinary management to continue the production activity, i.e. to allow the payment of salaries, suppliers and maintenance. Following the adoption of Decree-Law No 191, the European Commission launched an in-depth investigation to determine whether the Italian State's support to ILVA steel works complied with EU State aid rules: an investigation also extended to a loan of EUR 300 million. This legislation does not allow public support to run to the rescue and start a restructuring of firms in difficulty. The steel industry was excluded from this type of aid in the mid-1990s, by common agreement between the Member States of the European Union and the Commission. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u11	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur cannot overshadow the buzz, not even to be heard by the stenographers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u12	FABBRI, rapporteur. Thank you, Madam President. However, this has been possible because State aid rules allow Member States to provide aid to improve the competitiveness of European steel mills worldwide, for example, for research and development, training and support for energy-intensive activities. Thus, in recent years, the various Member States have taken measures to compensate for the high costs incurred by those industries which carry out energy-intensive activities, including steel mills. Although these measures affect competition in the steel sector, they promote important objectives of common interest. The Italian Government has repeatedly called for a review of the entire State aid scheme for the steel sector. The amendment in this decree-law is intended to intervene in relation to what has been asked of us by the European Commission. In the previous text, in fact, it was agreed that the successful tenderer of the procedure would repay the State the amount of 300 million plus interest; with the changes introduced, instead, the obligation to repay the 300 million paid by the State is borne by the extraordinary administration of the ILVA Group, to which those sums were actually paid, within sixty days of the adoption of the decree to terminate the undertaking, before other claims. This amendment ensures the discontinuity, also economic, of the management by the contracting parties and is in line with the indications of the European Commission, that, even with the comfort letter relating to the current sale procedure, it has confirmed that the refund in the case of the successful tenderer would prejudice the achievement of the economic discontinuity between the transferor and the assignee. On the amendments to the award procedure, one important aspect, which I stress, is that these changes closely link the industrial plan to the environmental one. Among the various aspects, the result of the debate in the Chamber, there is the obligation for the tenderers to send every six months a report on the activity carried out with regard to the environmental plan and the contractual obligations. This is in order to ensure greater transparency by the successful tenderer in the management of both the environmental recovery plan and the industrial plan. Also in paragraph 1 of Article 1, an amendment to the provision governing the processability of claims must be stressed, in order to give priority to the payment of ILVA debts towards the small and medium-sized enterprises of the undertaking. Also in article 1, paragraphs 1-a and 1-b, during the debate in the Chamber there is a modification that prohibits the financial advisor from holding participations or holding internal or external management positions in the contracting entity buyer or tenant. It should also be stressed that the distributions of partial payments to pre-deductible creditors are made by the Extraordinary Commissioner, giving preference to the payment of the claims of the supplying undertakings. Paragraph 2 of Article 1 intervenes in the matter of rent of a company or of branches of this one, with obligation to purchase in the context of the procedure of cession of the business complexes. In particular, it is expected that the rules laid down by the bankruptcy law will not apply where the lease provides for the obligation, even subject to condition or term, to purchase the holding or branch of the holding by the tenant; therefore, there is no provision for the inspection of the holding, nor the right of withdrawal of the extraordinary administration, nor the right of pre-emption of the tenant. According to the rule, the tenant's obligation to provide appropriate guarantees for all obligations assumed under the contract or deriving from the law remains in place. To give certainty to the continuation of the productive activity for tenants or buyers, article 1, paragraph 3, news article 3 of Decree-Law No 207 of 2012 containing: In the event of a crisis in industrial plants of national strategic interest, urgent provisions to protect health, the environment and employment levels, with a view to extending to the tenant or purchaser of ILVA the placing in possession of the company's assets, the authorization to continue the production activity in its establishments and the subsequent marketing of the products. In this regard, it is recalled that the innovation introduced by Decree-Law 207 of 2012 was to allow, as a result of the seizure measures ordered against Ilva by the judicial authority, the continuation of the productive activity for a specified time in the review of the integrated environmental authorisation, binding it to certain conditions: the determination of the absolute necessity to safeguard employment and production, being the activity exercised in a plant of strategic-national interest, as well as the protection of the environment and health. Article 2 of the Decree-Law lays down provisions on financing of strategic enterprises. In particular, paragraph 1 provides that the amounts of State funding granted to the Commissioners of the ILVA Group are to be repaid no longer in the same financial year in which they were paid (800 million, of which 600 in 2016 and 200 in 2017), but in 2018, according to the procedure for the allocation of the assets, established in the same provision. The paragraph 2 of Article 2 provides for the charges referred to in the previous paragraph, in terms of requirements equal to 400 million euros for the year 2016, to compensate for which an equal amount of the sums managed by the bank system for energy and environmental services are expected to be paid, on a specific central cash flow account (the fund for environmental energy services is a public economic agency operating in the electricity, gas and water sectors). Paragraph 3, again of Article 2, states that to the charges deriving from the greater interest payables, referred to in paragraph 2, pairs to 200,000 euros annual from 2017, is done by corresponding reduction of the projections of the special fund of current part, to the purpose partially utilizing the provision relative to the Ministry of the economy and the finances. In conclusion, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I continue to think how demagogic and instrumental the position of those who stand on the line of not intervening on the ILVA business complex is. The rhetoric of the ten or eleven decrees does not belong to a government force that anticipates environmental issues and re-launches such an important industrial complex, as well as the impact on employment and the small and medium-sized enterprises involved, in a territory that instead needs decisive determination, aware that the steel industry can and must play a fundamental role, practiced in respect of the environment and health, for the overall economic development of the country. I would like to thank the President and the officials of the Commission and the co-rapporteur, Senator Orellana, for sharing the path with regard to this Ilva Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Orellana.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u13	Madam President, the 10th and 13th Commissions today propose to the House the conversion into law of an ILVA decree-law which, in our opinion, is considerably improved compared to the original text presented by the Government. The use of a further decree-law is at this point inevitable in order to guarantee the continuation of the economic activity of an important establishment at national level and, at the same time, to ensure a serious and realistic possible environmental recovery, which the existing procedures could not have allowed. In fact, too complex were and remain the problems left behind by the Riva group. From this point of view we have developed the numerous derogations from the ordinary environmental and legal rules that we find in several of these decree-laws; all this in a situation - I remember - of economic crisis that has hit the world steel industry, in a very fast competitive situation. It would hardly have been possible to go another way. The ILVA plants could have been closed down, or rather closed down, and we believe that this choice must be avoided, not only because of an employment issue, which is certainly very important, but because of the serious environmental implications that this decision would entail. Our country is, unfortunately, full of situations that have produced so-called "orfani" sites: think, just to name one, about the story of the Caffaro, which concerned Torviscosa, the Valley of Sacco, Brescia, which has left us as a legacy hundreds of hectares and vast areas of contaminated slopes, which require hundreds of millions of euros to be reclaimed, which inevitably fall on the shoulders of the public and which continue to constitute a serious environmental danger. A path, therefore, that chosen, courageous, certainly suffered, which presents questionable situations, but in our opinion, at this stage, absolutely inevitable. I would remind you, first, that the decree-law at our examination, which now consists of 4 articles, intervenes on the rules concerning the procedure for the disposal of the business complexes of the ILVA Group, still in progress, modifying some provisions mostly contained in the most recent decree-laws concerning the modification of the plan of measures and activities of environmental and health protection and the rights and obligations of the buyers or tenants of the company complex. More specifically, article 1, paragraph 1, letter b), intervenes novelling article 1 of decree-law n. 191 of 2015 with the replacement of paragraph 8 and the insertion of new paragraphs 8.1, 8.2 and 8.3, as well as, due to the amendments approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 8.2-a and 8.2-b. The news reports refer first of all to the procedure concerning the changes or additions to the plan of measures and activities of environmental and health protection, establishing new terms for the definition and evaluation of definitive binding offers by the parties involved in the procedure for the transfer of the business complexes of the ILVA Group in extraordinary administration, as well as for the authorisation of the changes themselves and of the new interventions. Further innovations concern the appointment of a new committee of experts, appointed to carry out the investigation of the aforementioned changes and the limitation of the application of the current rules, concerning the actual charges and special privileges provided for the owners of the sites subject to reclamation, the goods, the companies and the branches of the company that are the subject of the transfer. According to the rules introduced by the Decree-Law under consideration, the new Committee of Experts is entrusted with the examination of the evaluation of the changes and/or additions to the plan proposed in the context of the tenders, as well as the implementation of the modifications, which is no longer entrusted to the committee that has handled the preparation of the environmental plan. The new paragraph 8.2- bis, introduced in the course of the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, then provides the institution, with financial variance, at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers of a coordination between the Region Puglia, the competent ministries and the municipalities concerned, with the aim of facilitating the exchange of information between those administrations in relation to the implementation of the environmental plan, including any changes or additions. Such coordination is expected to be held at least twice a year at the reasoned request of one of the members. The new paragraph 8.2-b, also introduced during the examination at the Chamber, provides that the Puglia Region may authorize the Regional Agency for the environmental protection of Puglia to employ permanent staff for a quota strictly necessary to ensure the activities of supervision, control, monitoring and any technical investigations concerning the implementation of the environmental plan and with public selection procedures governed by the measure of the Puglia Region itself. Paragraph 8.3 of Article 1 of Decree-Law No 191 of 2015 regulates the matter of real costs and special privileges related to the transfer of contaminated sites subject to reclamation. In particular, it is expected that assets, companies and business branches identified by the Commissarial Programme, once the amendments or additions to the environmental and reclamation plans relating to these assets, including those requested by the successful tenderer, will be the subject of the forecast provided for in Article 253 of the Environmental Code - according to which the reclamation of contaminated sites constitutes a real burden on the real estate - only within the limit of non-compliance with the reclamation requirements provided for in the environmental and reclamation plans or any further authorisation necessary for the operation of the plant which the successful tenderer has undertaken to implement. Point (a) of paragraph 4 of Article 1 allows the extension of the deadline set at 30 June 2017 for the implementation of the so-called environmental plan, at the request of the successful tenderer selected under the procedure for the transfer of the business complexes belonging to ILVA in extraordinary administration, governing the procedure for such a possible extension, however no later than 18 months. The letter b) of the aforementioned paragraph 4 then intervenes on paragraph 6 of article 2 of the decree-law 5 January 2015, n. 1, providing for two modifications to this provision: it is expected that it is extended also to the tenant or the buyer, as well as to the subjects from these delegates, the exclusion from the criminal or administrative liability against conducts put in place in implementation of the environmental plan; moreover, as a result of a modification made to the Chamber of Deputies, it has been defined, in the novel disposition, the time span of such extension of exclusion, specifying that the exclusion from the criminal or administrative liability against conducts put in place in implementation of the environmental plan, as regards the tenant or buyer and the subjects functionally from these delegates, applies with reference to the conducts put in place until the expiration of 30 June 2017 or for a further period of extension not exceeding eighteen months (letter b) n. 2). In this regard, it is recalled that it was established in judgment No 85 of 2013 of the Constitutional Court by which the Constitutional Court declared that it was inadmissible and that there were no grounds for contesting the rule. In particular, the Court rejected the assumption for which the period granted to the undertaking constitutes a genuine "appa" of total immunity from criminal and procedural rules, even in the light of the multiple controls to which it is subject. In the course of the examination at the Chamber has been introduced also the new paragraph 5-a of article 1, that news article 4, paragraph 2-b, of the decree-law 5 January 2015, n. 1, to which is added a new forecast, according to which if the waste object of recovery is used outside the ILVA plants, the test of cession of which to the decree of the Ministry of the environment of 5 February 1998 applies. The original wording of Article 4 of Decree-Law No 1 of 2015, provided for compliance with these tests only with the residues of the production of the ILVA plant in Taranto, in order to re-use them for the formation of findings, of hives of waste storage facilities on the ground, of road sub-funds and of railway ballasts or for environmental fillings and recovery. Finally, I would like to mention Article 1-a, which was also introduced to the House (further proof that the conversion process has been opened up to possible changes and improvements by Parliament), which introduces the obligation to map waste within the establishments of Ilva SpA. More specifically, the commentary article provides that, by December 31, 2016, the extraordinary commissioners transmit to the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea the mapping updated to the date of June 30, 2016 of the hazardous or radioactive waste and of the material containing asbestos present inside the plants of the company ILVA SpA. This provision is essential for the full protection of the health of workers working in establishments and of citizenship. I would also remind you that the European Parliament resolution of 14 March 2013 on threats to health at work related to asbestos and the prospects for the elimination of all existing asbestos calls on the European Union to develop, implement and support a model for the census and registration of asbestos in accordance with Article 11 of Directive 148 of 2009. Among the reasons given, particular mention should be made of the fact that local communities do not have the necessary experience and have serious shortcomings in the implementation of prevention and surveillance activities, which are often too fragmented, and that, in addition to the human dimension linked to inadequate health and safety at work, the problem of non-tracking and disposal of asbestos also affects the economy. There is no doubt that problems relating to health and safety at work, apart from the dramatic human implications, are an obstacle to growth and competitiveness, while at the same time leading to a disproportionate increase in social security expenditure. In conclusion, however, I would like to draw the attention of this House to a worrying discrepancy which, in my opinion, exists within the body of legislation of the Union. I am of the opinion that a fragmented, obsolete and cumbersome framework such as State aid indirectly undermines the possibility of achieving European objectives as essential as those contained, for example, in the European Parliament resolution of 14 March 2013. The case of Ilva in this respect is emblematic. How, in fact, can ambitious and indispensable objectives such as the progressive elimination of asbestos in the shortest possible time across the Union be achieved, or can safe working procedures be developed for workers who might be in the presence of asbestos-containing materials? In fact, we are faced with state aid legislation which, if on the one hand, by Article 107 (2) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union allows aid granted to the economy of certain regions of the Federal Republic of Germany affected by the division of Germany - decades ago - to the extent that it is necessary to compensate for the economic disadvantages caused by that division; on the other hand, it censures the EUR 300 million granted, pursuant to Article 1 (3) of Decree-Law No 191 of 2015, to ensure - I quote - the continuation of activity in order to meet the requirements of environmental protection, health and employment. Colleagues, I am a convinced Europeanist, and it is precisely as such that I believe that it is vital for the fate of the European Union to eliminate distortions like this. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to strongly call for the speedy rationalisation and simplification of European and national legislation on State aid relief and control, which focuses in particular on a revision of the text of Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in order to provide for a systemic extension of the exemptions for aid schemes to promote the development of the economy of the regions where the standard of living is particularly low, or where there is a high unemployment rate, as well as the scheme of aid to remedy the damage caused by natural disasters or other exceptional events, to implement the reform and simplification of State aid procedures. [[Applause from Senators Fabbri and Molinari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u14	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Malan to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u15	Madam President, I would like to read Article 77 of the Constitution, which concerns decree-laws, and which we should remember. Article 77, paragraph 2, states that the Government shall take provisional measures by force of law in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency. At the same time, Article 70 states, with admirable synthesis, that the laws are made by the Chambers and not by the Government. I have heard the rapporteur speak about the rhetoric of the eleven decree-laws. I will not make rhetoric but I will say that there are eleven decree-laws on the subject, five of which are approved by the current Government. The urgency, or even better the extraordinary urgency, is at best because it was expected until the day of this decree-law to take certain measures on the emergency that occurred four years ago. Therefore, the urgency is determined not by the environmental situation (with all the problems related to it) of the ILVA of Taranto, but is caused if anything by the bad law that has been done with the previous ten decrees-laws, including those - also numerous - issued by this Government, which have failed to solve the problem. At best, they failed to solve the problem because they also contained errors, so much so that this decree-law begins with corrections of the last provision. In other words, an emergency measure is evidently prepared for months because, precisely, the ILVA of Taranto represents a situation with serious difficulties (environmental profiles, employment and so on) which has been well known for several years. However, although these decree-laws are prepared months in advance - as is clear - they are also made wrong, so much so that after a few months one must intervene again to correct them. With a bill? No, with a decree-law, because the government wants to continue to make laws on its own, because the more it does on its own, the more it avoids having to submit its provisions to a fair and correct scrutiny of Parliament. I say another banality, but it must be remembered because at other times it seems that even we legislators forget it: the decree-law does not enter into force after sixty days from the conversion into law, but it enters into force immediately. So if there are any mistakes, they're wrong right away. As if that were not enough, we are positioned in such a way as to have the decree-laws examined in a single Chamber: this time the other branch of Parliament, unlike what happened in other circumstances, has not been particularly slow and has passed this text to us in such times that corrections could still be made; however, the majority has decided not to modify it in the Commission and I do not think to do a great Vatican, nor to risk much, in believing that confidence will be placed again this time (it will be the number 62 or 63). Clearly, we are faced with a way of legislate that is not only against the Constitution, but also against the resolution of problems. The first decree-law could be justified by the extraordinary necessity and urgency, but not the subsequent ones. There is no more urgency; there is a difficult situation, but obviously there is no longer that extraordinary necessity and urgency that occurred when the emergency was actually produced. On the abuse of the decree of urgency there have been calls of the President of the current Republic and of the previous one; moreover, the Constitutional Court, in the now distant 1996, noted the unconstitutionality of the decree-law iteration or repeated and in this case, with the continuous production of decree-laws always on the same topic, at least on some points, we are very close, if not even in the face of cases of recurrence. They are all measures that have not solved the problem (nor that of the population of the area of Taranto, nor that of the workers of the group and not even that of the tourists who frequent that beautiful Region) and therefore should really be questioned about the meaning of the Constitution. If the Constitution is there for some reason, it should not be violated first; moreover, if anyone thinks he is smart enough to do better than the Constitution, he should prove it by solving the problem; instead something tells me that if, instead of eleven decree-laws, a draft law had been presented, with the possibility of discussing it, of deepening it, of confronting the local population, with the counter-interested, perhaps some more problem would have been solved. On the substance we see that there are also some disconcerting aspects: four years after the emergence of the emergency, in the decree-law under consideration, which was extraordinarily necessary and urgent to approve, there is a measure that allows an extension of 18 months to the deadline for the implementation of the health environmental plan, which had been established with another measure of extraordinary necessity and urgency. When do these 18 months expire, maybe tomorrow? In this case at least the urgency would be justified. No, they expire on June 30, 2017, so it is extraordinarily necessary and urgent to establish more than a year earlier (because the decree-law was not approved yesterday by the Government, but on June 9) that a deadline of June 30, 2017 should be extended by another eighteen months. It is extraordinary: it means that in this year, once again, it will not be possible to resolve the situation, so it is truly disconcerting. I repeat that this is not just any plan, but the environmental safety of that area for the protection of the environment and people. However, we already know that there are 18 more months, so there are obviously two cases: either in the numerous previous decrees-laws a totally incorrect assessment has been made of the time needed to resolve the situation, or now a totally unjustified extension is being granted. In fact, if the assessment was correct, then someone did not do what they had to do and it is expected that they will not do so in the next twelve months, to the point that they must be given another eighteen months. Another sensitive point in the content concerns the extension of criminal and administrative immunity for the implementation of the said environmental plan no longer only to the extraordinary commissioner and the subjects he delegates (this is extraordinary, but not extraordinarily necessary and urgent). But this immunity is also extended to the tenant and purchaser of the steel mill. Here we have another matter worthy of some comment. It is very curious: it establishes the immunity of someone; this means either that this immunity is totally unjustified or that, if it is justified, in our country the laws that affect in general all enterprises are done so badly that, when you really have to solve a problem, you have to allow to violate the law ensuring impunity, otherwise the problem cannot be solved. This should raise a few questions: if it is necessary (precisely necessary and urgent) for ILVA, perhaps it is also necessary for the hundreds of thousands of companies that fight every day against a suffocating bureaucracy that prevents them from doing things, precisely, extraordinarily necessary and urgent. For the ILVA, however, we discover that violating the law is indispensable; it may be true, but then we change those laws, not only for the ILVA, because after four years - I repeat - the urgency is no longer there (the emergency remains because the problem has not been solved). Finally, we have another bad news: the loan of 300 million euros allocated by the State to ILVA will not be returned - as it had been established a few months ago in another decree-law extraordinarily necessary and urgent - by the winning company of the race, but will be returned by the extraordinary administration of the current ILVA Group, before the other debts entered in the procedure. In other words, the Group's creditors know that they are down 300 million: good news for creditors and companies that are likely to fail, because after four years of intervention the State cannot even guarantee the Ilva's main creditors. For these reasons we ask that we do not proceed with the approval of this provision: do a proper bill and solve the problem, rather than adjust with some measure the mistakes made by previous governments and by the present more than by others. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u16	He asked Senator Nugnes to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u17	Madam President, what is this 11th Decree-Law No 98? It is certainly an urgent mechanism for the completion of the procedure for the cessation of ILVA plants. But, together with all the others, it is an architecture that shows us a model of government - of the current and the previous - that has in contempt the constitutional respect of the judiciary, health, the environment, workers (because they are not guaranteed even the conditions of safety at work), of free competition, of European regulations and, ultimately, of Parliament. Eleven decrees-laws in five years. Let us ask ourselves: is the extraordinary character respected? I don't think so. It is an eccentric system of rules organized only for the ILVA plant, which poses serious environmental and health problems and clearly interferes, in a repeated way, with the reserve of jurisdiction and with the obligatory prosecution. Specifically, this decree-law extends criminal and administrative immunity not only to commissioners and all their delegates, but also to the tenant and buyer, who are still not existing, because in June the races did not go well. Let's remember that already with the previous decree-law (the second of 2015, because a decree-law was not made a year, but also two) we fought a lot against this extension of immunity, which goes beyond the administrative data. The only previous legal reference was that of the rules laid down at the time of Berlusconi, those, to understand us, of the rescue of Alitalia; but in that case immunity was extended only to the administrative field and very limited in time. In fact, I would remind you that the Court of Justice of the time (that of the Berlusconi Government, in our view) gave a favourable opinion on the condition that it was merely administrative and non-criminal immunity and that the time limits were respected. Instead, in the previous decree-laws were extended also to criminal penalties, without time limits. With that of today, we extend not only the limits but also the audience of the subjects, extending also to the future subjects, such as the tenant or the buyer. It is a resounding violation of the principle of equality set out in Article 3 of the Constitution. It's a preemptive release of a criminal. This clearly still creates major health and environmental problems and possible, if not safe, slippages on the implementation times of the environmental plan. But what is this environmental plan? It has been four years since 2012, since the Decree of the review of the AIA, which provided for the implementation of 94 requirements, which should have been implemented by 31 July 2015. But then comes Decree-Law No 191 of 2015, which states that for that date only 80% of the prescriptions, not understood as numbers, must be implemented, but only in listing. With this last decree-law, instead, there is the possibility of having a temporal derogation until 2019. I remember, however, that we have 91 deaths a year only in the Tamburi district and in the Borgo district with regard to the report of the CTU of the Taranto Public Prosecutor. Therefore, extending the implementation of these requirements for another eighteen months is very serious. Let us try to clarify, however, what these requirements are. The cover of the mineral park is the first prescription. The covering of the mineral park would perhaps prevent, or at least decrease, the fact that in the district Drums children, young people, adults, old people, in short, all breathe the dust of coal and iron, as there are huge deposits right there, a stone's throw from these neighborhoods. These neighborhoods are in fact divided only by a low wall and a net compared to these dusts and when in Taranto there are wind days these dusts are transported massively in the neighborhood, are breathed, fall on the ground, pollute everything and kill people. Clearly, the Centre for Health and Environment Studies has shown that the risk of mortality in those days increases very much, although it is certainly not absent in the other days. This further delay of time also drops the presupposition of urgency. It is evident that this is contrary to Articles 9, 32 and 24 of the Constitution, precisely because we know that impunity has also been extended to the buyer. This means that we will not be able to resort to the polluters. There will be no recourse, either administratively or criminally, to those who will continue to pollute. In this way the citizen is deprived of the possibility of appealing for the protection of his or her rights violated. This also harms the constitutional principle of reasonableness, since responsibility for conduct that causes situations that damage public safety and the physical integrity of people has not been excluded. That's for health. With reference to the extraordinary administration procedure, the loan of 300 million euros will no longer be returned by those who will acquire the company, but by the extraordinary administration. This makes even more precarious the position of creditors, not assisted by the privilege, and that is that they are back on the waiting list. This provision is in clear contrast, once again, with Article 3, because it creates an economic favor for people, to the detriment of others. The day after the adoption of the measure under consideration, in January 2016, the European Union opened an in-depth investigation to assess whether such State aid is compatible with European law and, in May, asked the Italian Government for a report to deepen the issue. In the Commission, in an Italian way, the rapporteur said to us: let us not wrap our heads around this and let us not go too far, because it may well be good for us. Surely there is a violation of Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, which put us in relation to foreign countries and in relation to Europe. As we said, there is also a violation of Articles 32 and 41 of the Constitution. I refer to Article 41 because the recovery plan for ILVA can be modified and supplemented by new buyers according to criteria of economic sustainability which, therefore, will prevail over those of other types, such as, for example, those of an environmental or health nature. There is also an infringement of Article 97, because there is provision for the duplication of environmental authorisation procedures. In fact, it will be enough for a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers to approve the plan drawn up by the purchaser so that this applies as a variant to the integrated environmental authorisation. It is therefore a unique procedure, unique and only for ILVA. For this reason and for all other reasons, we ask, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, not to proceed with the examination of the measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u18	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u19	Madam President, we have reached the eleventh decree-law concerning the ILVA in Taranto. I believe that only this number is sufficient to justify and support the question of constitutionality that we are presenting, because it is clear to everyone that the practice - so we can now define it - of repeating the decrees-laws concerning the ILVA of Taranto is clearly in violation of Article 77 of the Constitution, failing the prerequisites of necessity and urgency and putting the prohibition of repetition of decrees-laws. Moreover the decree-law intervenes, introducing changes on aspects already modified from the previous decree-laws. The decree-law in question is intended to deal with what continues to be a very serious industrial, health and environmental emergency, with measures that are, in fact, urgent. Moreover, having arrived at the eleventh decree-law means - evidently - that one has not been able to address and find solutions to the serious health, environmental and even industrial problems of the ILVA of Taranto. Above all, we continue to intervene with decree-laws, such as this one at our examination, which are deeply detrimental to constitutional principles. We are talking about the violation of Articles 3, 9, 32, 41, 81, 97 and 112 of our Constitutional Charter, as well as serious and worrying profiles of incompatibility with European environmental legislation. I am very sorry that the two rapporteurs did not dwell on these constitutionalities, which were also discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I am referring, in particular, to the part about environmental legislation. We understand the reasons for the Government's continued choice to intervene with the decree of urgency, even a few months after the last decree-law approved at the end of February. The stratification of all these regulatory measures, drawn up a short distance from each other without proper reflections aimed at understanding the reasons for the failure of the previous ones, is generating serious disorientation and uncertainty for citizens, workers and even for possible foreign investors. Therefore, there is not only a violation of Article 77, because the repeated choice to use the instrument of the decree-law on such complex, important matters and with serious consequences from the social, economic and environmental point of view does not allow us to address the core of the issues before us. Again with regard to the regulatory framework of the measure, I would like to point out some macroscopic cases of violation of constitutional rules and articles. In particular, in article 1, paragraph 4, letter b), the article 2, paragraph 6, of Decree-Law No. 1 of 5 January 2015, converted with Law No. 20 of 4 March 2015, in order to extend criminal and administrative immunity - I would like to remind you that it is absolutely serious and we discussed it for a long time also on the occasion of the examination of the decree-law previous - for the conducts put in place by the extraordinary commissioner and the subjects delegated by him to the implementation of the AIA and the measures provided for in the environmental plan. It is also extended to the tenant or buyer, extending and strengthening in an unacceptable way already clearly unconstitutional provisions, which we had repeatedly pointed out as manifestly unconstitutional and unconstitutional - let me say, President - from any respect of the principle of the rule of law, with violation not only of the principle of equality referred to in Article 3 of the Constitution, but even reaching the point of creating a real legal monster. A kind of right to environmental disaster is created for some people whose behaviour is protected by a presumption of lawfulness. There is a sort of right to be able to perennially violate the law. It is a presumption that, with all the evidence, it seems even more serious and worrying for anyone who has in mind the complex, serious and worrying problems that, especially from the health and environmental point of view, continue to torment the territory of the most important industrial site of the Country, despite several and multiple procedures of commissioning started for some time. This provision violates the principles of jurisdiction reserve and mandatory prosecution, as set out in Article 112 of our Constitution, as it is likely to bind the judge to carry out a merit assessment excluding the criminal or administrative liability of some persons compared to others who might possibly be involved in the implementation of the environmental plan, with obvious unequal treatment, illogical in criminal and administrative terms. Moreover, Article 1, paragraph 4, letter a), makes changes to Article 2 of Decree-Law No 1 of January 2015, in which the deadline for the implementation of the environmental plan had already been moved to 30 June 2017, inter alia with that strange rule, which referred to the implementation of 80% of the prescriptions, without providing for a list of priorities that took into account the quality weight of the same, but generically referring to the numerical data only. The measure under consideration, at the request of the successful tenderer, is even to be extended for a further 18 months until 2019. So we can say that the time-limits for the implementation of environmental requirements have now become non-existent for an extended extension: I do not just say that they are not permanent, but are no longer of any value, because it is clear to everyone that the instrument that is constantly being put in place by the decrees-laws is to postpone this term continuously: this is like saying that it has no value whatsoever. Meanwhile, the heavy effects of pollution continue to exist on the territory and weigh on the daily lives of people, endangering the health of citizens. It is clear that this entails a clear violation of all forms of constitutional protection, as provided for in Articles 9, 32 and 41 of the Constitution, in which the Republic's obligation to protect the landscape, in its wider sense of the environment, to protect the health of its citizens, as an interest of the community, is established, since the right to health, understood as the right to the health of the environment, constitutes an inviolable right of the person. Finally, pursuant to Article 41 of the Constitution, the obligation to prevent the conduct of economic initiatives which have ways of causing damage to security, freedom and human dignity is established. Moreover, this provision clearly violates Community environmental legislation and in particular Article 191 of the Treaty establishing the European Union. The decree-law to our examination, article 1, paragraph 1, letter b), paragraph 8.2, establishes a committee of experts: it is yet another "pearl," in addition to extensions, violations and the extension of criminal immunity. A new institute is in fact created: a committee of experts, composed of three components, not better defined, which within 4 months will in essence have the task of evaluating the environmental plans presented by private individuals, thus foreshadowing the privatisation of a typical function carried out by the Ministry of the Environment, in violation of the principle of good performance and impartiality of the public administration, referred to in Article 97 of the Constitution. We do not want to tease you too much about the violation of Article 81 of the Constitution, in relation to the financial cover, but we would like to point out to you another obvious violation, with the modification introduced by the provision to paragraph 3 of Article 1, in which it is expected that the extraordinary administration and not already the successful tenderer will return to the State the amount paid, plus interest to six months. So it is a real regalia for the private sector, of about 400 million euros, with charges totally charged to public finance. It is clear, therefore, that for all these reasons we ask the House to take a decision under Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure not to proceed with the examination of the measure under consideration, which constitutes the eleventh decree-law on the situation of the Ilva. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u20	He asked Senator Bruni to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u21	Madam President, listening to the speeches made by the previous speakers, I have reflected on my approach to this long follow-up of decree-laws in the explanation of the other questions referred for a preliminary ruling. At the beginning I was not so prejudiceally opposed to the use of the instrument of the decree-law, because in fact, because of the origin of the lawsuit around the ILVA and for all that was achieved to the seizure of the plant and to the criminal investigations, it was more than logical to think of an intervention through the use of the decree-law, just to try to overcome the impasse that had come to create on a plant so important for the production of steel in Italy and especially as regards the protection of the right to health in the area of Taranto and in all the Ionic-Salentine part concerned by this plant. However, the issuing of further decrees-laws has somewhat frustrated these expectations and the cautious optimism that could be had at the beginning. In fact, there has been a continuous deterioration, especially as regards the improper use of the decree of urgency and therefore the continuous and increasing violation of the constitutional principles, as illustrated also in the previous questions for preliminary rulings. And so I come to what are the reasons that we have set out in our preliminary question, QP4, without going into so much detail, even though the temptation - as has been the case with other colleagues - is quite felt and evident. I do not return to the fact that we are at the tenth decree-law on this issue, but I must say that the use of the decree of urgency, according to principles now acquired and solemnly established by the Constitutional Court, must take place under specific conditions. Among these, there is no provision for recurrence, which harms the provisions of Article 77 of the Constitution. The measure, in fact, stabilizes and prolongs over time the reference to the grounds already laid at the foundation of the nine previous decrees-laws; therefore the criterion of urgency is lacking, precisely because there is an increasingly evident and striking stabilization. What does all this involve? It involves the damage of legal certainty in the relationship between the different parties that face each other and that interface with the issue of the ILVA plant, both from the point of view of the protection of rights, as regards the participation in the races, and as regards the population affected by this establishment. This violation of legal certainty also means that it is impossible to foresee both the duration of the rules adopted and the final outcome of these rules, which are constantly being amended. These are particularly striking, since I referred first to the population, the effects on the right to health, and therefore the implications related to Article 32 of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court in 2013, dealing with the ILVA issue, had firmly established strict compliance with the AIA timetable. Today we, with this decree-law, see another eighteen months recognized; and this is certainly something that collides with the constitutional principles mentioned before. Another consideration: the decree-laws to rain certainly did not bring any economic-industrial advantage in the Taranto area until today. Nine decrees-laws have not led to any change and any significant novelty, either from an industrial point of view or from a socio-economic point of view in general. But surely all this has harmed the protection of the environment and health: that balance has not been achieved, which had to be achieved already with the previous decrees, between Article 41, third paragraph, of the Constitution and Articles 9 and 32 of our fundamental Charter. Moreover, the repetition of the decree-laws has another perverse effect: it involves the violation of Article 70 of the Constitution, because to use the decree-law continuously means to strip the legislative function of Parliament, which instead must exercise that function before and more than the government can do only on matters of necessity and urgency, which instead in this case are not noticed, considering that we are on the tenth appointment on the same topic. Furthermore, if we go to assess the principle set out in the first paragraph of Article 1 of the Decree-Law in question, i.e. the return of the 300 million paid by the State by not the successful tenderer but the administrator, this certainly involves the violation of Articles 2, 3 and 97 of the Constitution, and in particular the violation of the principle of legitimate expectations. The appointment of the Committee of the Three Experts has been discussed in these days. Also in this regard there is a novelty in the decree-law, but it is a perverse novelty: first to assess the plan had to be the Ministries of the environment and health using first of all the ISPRA, but the introduction of the Committee of Experts involves a violation of the principle of good performance, especially with regard to the concepts of efficiency, effectiveness and economicity, as laid down in Article 97 of the Constitution. Moreover, I would point out that the Ministry of the Environment already has facilities that are up to date; it must also be pointed out that all this happens without any participation of the Puglia Region, which is also greatly concerned by the issue. And all this involves a violation of article 117, third paragraph, of the Constitution, because the Region would still have had to deal with this matter. It has already been said of the immunity to administrative penalties, first granted only to the special commissioner or his delegates, while with this decree-law it is extended also to the buyer or the tenant of the establishment. It goes without saying that this is a clear and obvious violation of Article 3 and above all of Article 24 of the Constitution, because the right to defend the citizen is frustrated, which is damaged by the illicit pact of the purchaser or the tenant of the establishment. This eventuality is even more perverse and negative than the previous decrees-laws. Finally, there is still another violation, that of Article 11 of the Constitution, in relation to Article 107 (1) of the European Union's Basic Treaty. We are talking here about state aid: EUR 856 million which has already been the subject of an investigation by the Commission of the European Union, as previous speakers have pointed out. All these violations, all these obvious conflicts of the decree-law with very important constitutional principles, such as the principle of equality or Article 32 repeatedly recalled, lead us to insist on the question of constitutionality in the face of a series of government failures. Moreover, in recent times there is a permanent derby between the President of the Council Renzi and the President of the Region of Puglia Emiliano: a sterile and empty derby, played all on the shoulders of the citizens of Apulia who are certainly frustrated the right to the protection of health and that of a company that is without a positive horizon regarding the resumption of production. It has therefore been possible not to realize any of the premises of the various decrees-laws issued so far. Precisely for this reason, for the failure of the Government, but above all for the vices that I pointed out in my speech, we insist on the acceptance of the question for a preliminary ruling and to decide not to proceed with the examination of the bill. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u22	He asked for the intervention of Senator Council in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP5. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ILVA has now become a dramatic story involving the parliamentary classrooms since the last parliamentary term and which the technical government has certainly not been able to deal with or resolve with the necessary concreteness. The events of Ilva have, above all, brought out the fragility of our administrative system of intervention in environmental and industrial policy issues. The lack of clarity on the roles and competences of the institutional bodies concerned with environmental rehabilitation and redevelopment of the territory of Taranto has fueled a series of criminal and administrative procedures with counter-arguments of the Government turned out to date very ineffective and that have created uncertainties that concern not only the ILVA of Taranto but all the Italian industrial system. This was mainly because it enabled the judicial authority to intervene on issues which clearly fall within the remit of the environmental authorities and the Community directives. We believe that the reliability and credibility of our country towards foreign investors has been put at stake. The citizens of Taranto pay the irresponsibility of the entrepreneurial and industrial class of the past and the irresponsibility of the local administrative class, which has so far closed its eyes to the health and environmental problem. The environmental and health problems are even more serious if we think that in the same situation of environmental and health emergency in Taranto there are also 57 other sites of national interest, mostly located in the North of the country, to which the Government must intervene with concrete answers to protect the health of the citizens. So, Mr President, after more than four years of renewal of the state of emergency, continuous attempts by the Government to cope with the environmental and employment situation in Taranto and the crisis in Ilva, we are examining the eleventh decree-law. Three of the last governments - Monti, Letta and Renzi - have dealt with it and only the Renzi Government has issued more than half of these decree-laws in two years without yet resolving the business situation and without proposing a definitive and credible solution. Yet, now, they have become aware of the fact that the cessation of the activity of the ILVA of Taranto would entail a very serious injury, not only for the economic and social fabric of the territory of Taranto but also for the factories connected to it and for the induced everything because the plant of Taranto is the only point where the hot steel is worked and the company is supplier of all the plants of ILVA in the national territory: Genoa, Novi Ligure, Racconigi, Marghera and others. The Government is putting into play a group of 16,200 direct employees and 10,000 employees in the pipeline, which is currently in a difficult financial situation due to the problems encountered in the collection of claims against ILVA. According to our Group, the lack of credible solutions and the continuation of the state of emergency undermines the same reliability and credibility as our country towards, as I said before, foreign investors. This decree-law does not solve the problems and does not correspond to the dictates of our Constitution because it confirms the intervention of the State in the management of the enterprise of the ILVA Group, continuing to invade the sphere of the private and extending the extraordinary administration. The proliferation of decree-laws on the same subject cancels the requirements of necessity and urgency. The Decree-Law allows the successful tenderer to submit applications for authorisation of new interventions and to amend the plan of environmental and health protection measures and activities, creating a conflict between the private interest of the successful tenderer and the public interest for the correct implementation of environmental procedures. Then there are some rather original situations in this decree-law, Mr President, which provide for the choice of setting up a committee of three experts who should evaluate the proposals to amend the plan of environmental and health protection measures and activities and whose compensation is borne by the extraordinary administration of the ILVA, i.e. the person who is the main interested in the continuation of the activity and subsequent transfer of the company group, creating also in this case a conflict of interest. The extraordinary administration shall also bear the obligation to repay the bridge loan of EUR 300 million and shall no longer be liable to the successful tenderer for the tendering procedure, before the other debts of the procedure. Therefore, those who will have some credit towards Ilva will have to queue and since the economic availability of the company will be taken away the beauty of an additional 300 million euros. Coming to the preliminary question QP5 that our Group has submitted, the provision of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 98 of 19 June 2016 laying down urgent provisions for the completion of the procedures for the disposal of the corporate complexes of the ILVA Group, presents clear profiles of incompatibility with different constitutional norms. The decree-law under consideration, which confirms the State's intervention in the management of ILVA Group companies through the commissioner of the extraordinary administration procedure, is contrary to Article 41 of the Constitution, which establishes the freedom of private economic initiative. A sort of statisation of society, which sees the State invading the private sphere, continues to emerge. In fact, the extraordinary administration procedure for companies in insolvency stems from the restructuring and sale of companies with public participation or operating in the essential public services sector and has been forcibly extended to ILVA. Therefore, for a whole series of reasons that you will find in our question, we ask not to proceed to the examination of bill No 2483. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u24	Since no one intends to speak in the debate, I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling, on several grounds, by Senator Bernini and other Senators (QP1), Senator Nugnes and other Senators (QP2), Senator De Petris and other Senators (QP3), Senator Bruni and other Senators (QP4) and Senator Calderoli and other Senators (QP5). It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. He asked the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Dr. Galletti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments and additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2483, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 98 of 9 June 2016 into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u26	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 98, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Group Presidents is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.54 p.m. and resumed at 6.19 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u27	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the ILVA Decree-Law, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Leaders have decided that the discussion on trust will be concluded by this evening, for which approximately two hours have been allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. Explanations of vote will take place tomorrow morning from 9.30 a.m. He'll follow you. The Budget Commission shall be authorised to convene.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u28	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, there is still confidence. We have lost track of the number of trusts placed and it is really embarrassing that on such delicate and complex topics, during the examination of which the opposition forces have tried to make a proactive contribution and certainly have not put in place obstructive attitudes, there is not the possibility to deepen the proposals and to confront themselves in the Assembly, through the debate: on what has been done good, on what has not been done, on the lost opportunities and on the possibility of building, for an important territory of our country, a prospect of redemption that gives adequate answers to the issues of the protection of health and employment, in a logic that knows how to contemper what has not been able to do so far. I realise that there is a vote of confidence and that the Presidency has stressed the need to keep the speaking time down. Of course, out of discipline I adapt, but I do not omit my disappointment and my sense of uneasiness. Therefore, Mr President, for the benefit of the House's report, I would ask you right now to give me the rest of my speech as soon as you interrupt me for the time allocated to me. It is emblematic, Lords of the Government, like the 10th urgent decree for the ILVA, which is to be approved by the vote of confidence in four years you arrive in this House for its conversion precisely on the anniversary of the order for the seizure of the steel giant by the Taranto Public Prosecutor for environmental pollution. I think it should be interpreted as a warning. The paradoxical thing is that the urgency, which has now become chronic, is once again punctual with the same load of legitimate expectations, pain, disappointed expectations and disturbing questions. Nine decree-laws, five of which were issued by the Renzi Government, have not yet provided convincing answers on environmental safety, the right to the protection of health and employment. The most serious thing is the absolute absence of a strategic vision for the future of one of the most beautiful territories, the city of the two seas, which represents a spearhead of our national territory. Well it would have been done and well would be done today if its natural vocation as a city with great potential from the point of view of tourist attraction could be restored. A project is missing and the tenth decree-law, unfortunately, does not give us back even the shadow. It does not deny the government's position and the closing attitude that it has maintained throughout this period with its majority to the concrete and constructive proposals of minorities. Nor does it deny the absolute inadequacy of the Government's interventions in the field of industrial strategy and development of the South, in the context of which the ILVA affair fits. The text approved in the House and arrived in this House confirms these assessments. Even in the other branch of Parliament very little has been done; except for what we had repeatedly proposed about a substantial increase in economic resources for the ARPA, the rest has been completely ignored. The same economic increase shows in all its drama the uncovered nerve of the monitoring activity by the Regional Environment Agency, an activity essential for the protection of public health, but unfortunately sadly neglected. In conclusion, Mr President, this decree extends the time and differs the moments of taking decisions and unfortunately also those of responsibility. Time is not the enemy of Taranto and the country. The enemy is the inability to use it for the best. And that is a cause for great concern.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u30	The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the written text of its speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u31	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the ILVA affair, four years after the first investigations by the judiciary on pollution in the Taranto area, continues to commit for the fifth time the third Government of the nominations, the Renzi Government. From the very beginning, with the Executive of the technicians led by Monti, some messy measures have been taken, ineffective results. The ILVA issue has, above all, brought out the fragility of our administrative system with regard to controls and interventions on environmental industrial policy issues. Inadmissibility, omissions, lack of clarity of roles and competences of the institutional bodies concerned with environmental rehabilitation and redevelopment of the territory of Taranto have instituted a series of criminal and administrative procedures, causing late and ineffective reactions of the Governments, which have created uncertainties, which concern not only the ILVA of Taranto and the plants of the group and the induced, but all the Italian industrial system. The initial inertia of the Monti Executive has, above all, enabled the judiciary to intervene on issues which clearly fall within the competence of the authorities responsible for protecting the environment and the health of citizens. With the pre-emptive seizure of the plants of the hot zone of July 26, 2012, the largest iron and steel pole in Italy and the second in Europe has officially become an eco-monster, for the responsibility of the property: before the State, until 1995, and then of the private. But it has also become a symbol of negligence, environmental contempt and violence against public health, also due to the responsibility and complicity of the various local authorities and control bodies that have not monitored: the ASL before and, since 2003, the ARPA Puglia. Even today the citizens of Taranto pay the irresponsibility of the entrepreneurial and industrial class of the past and, above all, the irresponsibility of the local political and administrative class, which has closed its eyes to the health and environmental problem. It is quite clear that the only way to meet the need to protect the environment and the health of citizens is the continuity of business activity, because otherwise Taranto risks becoming a second Bagnoli. The closure of the plant would not only lead to the loss of jobs, but also the blocking of the implementation of the AIA's requirements, with the polluted site that would remain to be reclaimed, as already happened in Bagnoli, at this point with burdens only to the public. Here is that this tenth decree-law, launched to put a piece to the ineffectiveness of the previous, n. 191 of December 2015, aims to ensure the maintenance of the activity of the ILVA, in order to protect the socio-economic and occupational fabric of the territory of Taranto and of all the induced, guaranteeing at the same time the environmental protection, but also of the other plants of the group placed in the North, dedicated to cold processing, such as Conigliano, Novi Ligure, Racconigi, Marghera and others. As we announced on the occasion of the previous decree-law, the commissioners of the ILVA Group have failed and have failed to carry out the procedures for the transfer of the business complexes by June 2016 and here is yet another extension. We are therefore at the umpteenth decree-law, for the League, convinced that it is not decisive, on the substance once again not acceptable. It will be added to all the others that preceded it, increasing the volume of norms, under whose weight the steel industry of our country risks being crushed. How many things foreseen in past decrees-laws have not occurred! I quote only two: Newco, which was supposed to present the industrial plan and leave by the end of 2015, but which did not come and will remain a mystery; as well as the return to Italy of the 1.2 billion euros seized from the Riva family, which everyone gave for sure and instead were blocked in Switzerland by decision of the Swiss court. Within the merit of the forecasts of the decree-law concerning the company, that do not convince us at all: in the first place, the times of the procedure of sale are lengthened. From here to the end of the year we will have a management situation that will see, on the one hand, the buyer not yet in the full exercise of its functions and, on the other hand, a commissioner management that, while extending over time, will not be able to see the completion of the environmental plan, also extended several times. The resulting uncertainty risks calling into question the activity of the plant and losing orders and reliability. Second, after the six-month extension granted by the last decree-law, another eighteen-month extension is granted for the implementation of the plan of environmental and health protection measures and activities of the establishment; therefore no conclusion of the environmental plan at 30 June 2017, but at the end of 2019. This legitimizes a conflict between the successful tenderer's private interest and the public interest in the correct implementation of environmental requirements. Workers and tarantinos who are at risk of health care thank for the postponement of the complete implementation of the AIA requirements, which, beyond the percentages of facades that are sciorned, are still unfinished in the most economically demanding part, as can be seen from the analysis of the state of implementation of the environmental plan, updated a few days ago by the same extraordinary administration, with reference both to the main interventions on waste management, water and reclamation that to the state of the prescriptions of the AIA. We are late and very far from the completion of the plan and its postponement to 2019 avoids only the extraordinary administration a good four on the report card. On the modification of the environmental plan we contest the choice of the Government to entrust to a committee of three experts the evaluation of the modifications proposed from the offeror. We do not understand why, since the Ministry of the Environment already has an AIA commission or institutions such as ISPRA, which could evaluate proposals in tender. We also wonder why these experts should have only proven experience in environmental matters and in iron and steel installations and not - for example - in economic, legal or health matters. The third critical element, which is what concerns us most, is the modification of the obligation to repay the 300 million bridge loan, which had been granted to ensure the continuity of the company and exceed the period of sale. The refund shall be paid no more than by the successful tenderer of the tendering procedure, but by the extraordinary administration; a nice gift to the purchaser or tenant. This repayment of the loan before the other debts of the procedure worries us very much. Why? Because it makes even more uncertain the right of the creditors of the ILVA Group to the payment of the services carried out, reopening a laceration in the relationships that had been sewn up with decree no. 1 of 2015, thanks above all to the action amending of the oppositions, that they had made to include the credits of the suppliers among those prededucible. It is very serious to call into question payments due to companies in the pipeline, suppliers and hauliers. We wonder - and if the Senate Budget Service asks this too - whether, under the precarious conditions under which the management of a company continues to lose tens of millions a month, there is the ability of the extraordinary administration to cope with the repayment of the financing. We are also wondering about the time when this return will take place. We will certainly see some beautiful ones and that is why we are concerned about the creditors, who - I remember - have still frozen the credits before February 2015. Colleagues, as in previous decrees-laws, I still find enthusiasm among the members of government and majority, but I recommend caution. It weighs, in fact, like a boulder, the long series of measures that you have put on the field in four years to try to govern the ILVA affair, which until now you have shown that you are not able to manage. We reiterate what was the original sin, the initial error on ILVA: the statization of a private company. The commissioning was an irresponsible act against nature because, despite all the faults of the Riva for the lacked measures of environmental mitigation and the serious pollution of the area of Taranto, it remains however an expropriation of a private company, moreover strategic for the economy of the Country, whose economic accounts did not require such a drastic measure. Before concluding the intervention, I would like to address a question to the workers of the ILVA Group. Their protests in recent days are proof of how the climate of uncertainty about the future of the steel industry and the extension of the application of the AIA requirements create tension and anxiety in the workers themselves. Their concerns about the maintenance of the workplace and the role that ILVA can continue to play in the Italian steel industry are understandable. The future prospects of a company that, once in the hands of the private sector, could certainly not continue to lose tens of millions of euros per month in a context of saturation, worldwide, of the steel market invaded by the Chinese market are not clear. We are talking about more than 25,000 workers, between direct and indirect of the induced, who have been waiting in uncertainty for the central-left governments to come to a definitive solution for four years. This decree-law does not like the North League and many others because it continues in the path of uncertainty and, above all, reaffirms the intervention of the State in the management of the ILVA Group's companies, continuing to invade the sphere of private and extending the extraordinary administration. You are selling to private individuals a private company that you have nationalized, without having any titles or capabilities. We wonder who among Renzi's advisors is today the guru of the operation after Guerra left. We realize that you have expropriated the company and Riva because they were late with the implementation of the measures of the environmental plan and now for that same plan you grant the buyers not only the possibility to introduce substantial changes, but also the delay of the term of the realization at the end of 2019? And not only that: with a rule you extend to the buyer the criminal and administrative immunity already provided for the extraordinary commissioners and their delegates, relieving the buyer himself from his own responsibilities not only with reference to the past, but also for conduct put in place until the implementation of the environmental plan. This is crazy for us. I'll finish with a suggestion. When you realize the ineffectiveness of this decree-law and you will be close to launching yet another, return everything to the Riva with the eleventh decree-law. It will be the good time for ILVA to become efficient, non-polluting and profitable and, therefore, saves and protagonist in the Italian and global steel market. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u33	I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Tonini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u34	Mr President, the 5th Commission met to examine the Decree-Law of 9 June 2016, No 98, in the text approved by the House of Deputies. 6.40 p.m., followed by TONINI. The Decree-Law was the subject of extensive examination by the Commission at this afternoon's sitting - before the beginning of the Assembly's work - without, however, voting on the opinion, although it was explained and discussed. The Commission was keen to vote on the opinion on the text and amendments tomorrow morning, but the acceleration of the work of this House, and in particular the imposition of the question of trust, has changed the order of business. In any case, the examination carried out by the Commission has led us to take note of the assurances provided by the Government regarding the possibility of returning the resources referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1, letter a), and to express therefore an orientation of opinion not precluded with some premises: the committee of experts referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1, letter b), paragraph 8.2 can actually avail of the administrative structure of ILVA, ISPRA and the administrations concerned in the field of human, instrumental and financial resources available to current legislation and the charges related to the update of the planned mapping of article 1-a of the hazardous or radioactive waste present inside the establishments of the company ILVA SpA, as well as the resources suitable to deal with it, are in the hands of the commissioners. Under these two conditions, the Commission has given an opinion of no obstacle from the point of view of financial cover. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Decree-Law No 98 of 9 June 2016: An urgent provision for the completion of the procedure for the disposal of the business complexes of the ILVA Group is better known as the tenth decree-law save ILVA was launched by the Council of Ministers on 31 May 2016 and is, to date, in force. The content is simple and, at the same time, illogical and harboring further dramatic consequences: although it deals with the process of disposal of the Group's business complexes, ensuring total centrality to the assessment of the environmental plan with respect to the economic and industrial factor of the offers, it provides for a general shift of the terms. The deadline for the submission of tenders is postponed to 30 June 2016, thus removing the final date for the disposal of the Taranto steel plant. However, even more inconsistent, it is apparent that further lengthening of time is expected where it is expected that any proposals for amendment of the environmental plan, made by the tenderers, will be examined in advance by a committee of experts appointed by the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. Basically, paying more attention to the "technical techniques" to which the transfer is subject, it is possible to ascertain its directly descending negative effect. The provision reads: The Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, on the basis of the investigation carried out by the Committee of Experts, after consulting the Minister for Economic Development, shall deliver his opinion, proposing possible additions or amendments to the proposals of the tenderers. The lengthening of the time, compared to the forecasts, is even greater if we consider the control that will be carried out by the Community Antitrust. The industrial plan, or rather the negotiation, will have to obtain the green light of the Community body. Therefore, the award times of the ionic factory will become actually ripe not before December 2016. And again, approved the plan, buyers will have until December 31, 2019 to realize it, eighteen months more than the end of June 30, 2017, already extended in turn. It is spontaneous to wonder why the Government has reached such decisions only with the last decree-law saves ILVA, the tenth from 2012 to today. As a matter of fact, this further "urgent provision" on the rehabilitation path of the Taranto steel works only extends further the time span of both the ILVA transfer procedure to private individuals and workers for environmental rehabilitation. In this way, in fact, the objective bases are created for the closure of the ILVA with a very long agony that removes the industrialists with serious projects, leaves the workers only with the social shock absorbers without more jobs and the citizens with a poisoned environment without Bonifice. The terrible example of Bagnoli's steel works in Naples is worth it all. The data released by the press reports current losses for the ILVA steel plant of approximately 2 million euros per day (in 2015, 918 million losses were recorded, a figure to be added to 641 million euros in 2014, 911 euros in 2013 and 620 euros in 2012), with a monthly figure that settles to 25 million euros and that, in any case, represents a completely prudential estimate. The closing times for ILVA's disposal operations, as described, lead, as a logical consequence, to completely negative forecasts. The general shift in terms, in fact, will result in further losses, which will inevitably lead to the closure of the production plants, that is to say to a scaling so sensitive that they lead to evident criticalities for the entire chain involved. On the other hand, positive considerations can not be lacking for the German competition present in the steel market, which will thus occupy a huge portion of the market at the expense of our country. We consider that to contend the award of the ILVA company complex would seem to be two roped: the first led by the Marcegaglia group, together with the Franco-Indians of ArcelorMittal, and the second sees the alliance of the Arvedi group with Del Vecchio and Cassa deposits and loans. In this regard, certain considerations arise spontaneously: the ArcelorMittal hypothesis, in addition to not representing an Italian cordata as the joint venture would see the Italian participation only for 15 percent, with 85 percent of Franco-Indian presence, does not convince given the recent history of the company (in 2015 with a net debt of 16 billion dollars, and in 2016, still ongoing, equal to 12 billion dollars). And again, the statements by the vice-presidents responsible for the merger and acquisition area of ArcelorMittal, Ondra Otradovec and Geert Van Poelvoorde, about the plans of the multinational company on ILVA do not suggest anything positive about the future work of employees. In this respect, they describe a new steel mill with a production of 6 million tonnes per year, with three blast furnaces. Subsequently, production levels could be increased on the basis of adequate demand and favourable economic conditions. In other words, the level of employment will have to be proportionate to the level of production. These decisions, however, inevitably have an impact on employment levels. On this point, it is necessary to consider how production based on such figures will inevitably result; between early retirements, relocations and slips various with the new conformation of the plant could be reached to approximately 2,500-3,000 workers made redundant despite the Government esteemed, in this respect, about a thousand units. This last forecast is likely to represent an excess of optimism, given that approximately two thirds of the workers in the ILVA plant are employed in the hot area. The previous acquisitions of important steel companies in Italy have certainly not shone for development, investment and new jobs; on the contrary, it is enough to see the case of Magona in Livorno where social shock absorbers have been used for years. The Minister for Economic Development, Carlo Calenda, has several times declared that ILVA represents a national interest as a company that has effects on the entire Italian production chain. At the same time, however, the Minister has not clarified how the Italian presence will be guaranteed, at least mainly; as well as, with respect to the time of implementation of the industrial plan, he confirmed and reiterated those foreseen by the tenth decree-law save ILVA: first the presentation of the roped at the end of June 2016, then the presentation of the environmental plan, which will be analyzed in one hundred and twenty days, and then will obtain, through further analysis, a definitive response. The situation, in other words, will be defined by December 2016, and then arrive, as the last step, at the Antitrust. The criticalities connected to the ILVA plant in Taranto persist, with particular reference to the safety of the plants, the environmental aspects, the maintenance of the productive structures and the occupational levels, including the workers of the induced, forced for a long time to suffer a serious wage damage. The judicial events, the ongoing trial for the alleged environmental disaster and the conviction of Fabio Riva for fraud against the State for 100 million euros realized through the obtaining of public contributions, without omit the alleged tax evasion given the presence of a "tesoretto" of the Riva family blocked in Switzerland, render the words of the president of Federacciai, Antonio Gozzi, pronounced at the annual assembly of the association that has reelected him, without substance. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Bencini. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). The Riva family had to keep the steel mill, according to what has been said. In any case, I do not have enough time to conclude what I wanted to say, but I would point out that, through our amendments, which will obviously not be discussed for the imposition of the issue of trust, we proposed a shortening of the time and we also wanted a guarantee to the ILVA Group to be taken over by a group with an Italian presence. By putting the question of trust, the times provided for by the decree-law are confirmed. We believe that the ILVA is, unfortunately, destined to a slow agony (making, however, the happiness of the competitors). An example of the drama that is being prepared has already been seen with Bagnoli. We therefore call for the Minister to assume responsibility for the decisions taken precisely in time terms. At the same time, our vote as Italy of Values is linked to those proposals that we had made but which, unfortunately, were not accepted within this decree-law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Perrone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are adopting the eleventh decree-law on a very delicate subject. I said 11th, but in reality there are many more who, directly or indirectly, have affected ILVA. From all this emerges clear a figure: the Government is not able to identify definitive solutions for the industrial pole of Taranto. We are intervening - I stress - with small and limited operations that almost never talk about strategy, about the future. The Government, moreover, has another major flaw in this long story: it does not listen to those who live on the Taranto territory and could, therefore, provide concrete proposals to complex issues. In all this, in the meantime, things continue to become more and more difficult. Citizens and workers of Taranto deserve another method; on the contrary, I would say another policy, in the most authentic sense of the word. For Christ's sake - as we have already said - the story is thorny and complex. Two very important interests must be linked: environmental protection and employment. But nothing real is being done, not even to start working on this front. We Conservatives and Reformists, together with what Mr Raffaele Fitto says, believe that this umpteenth decree-law is just another piece that does not solve anything. It is only the way to gain time unnecessarily to the detriment of the city of Taranto and its Province. ILVA is a national issue: it is neither Tarantine nor Apulian nor southern, and we are tired of repeating it. This government, however, pretends that it doesn't know or that it doesn't want to know. For this reason, it acts with operations more similar to commercials than to concrete plans of intervention. If not, tell us concretely what you have in mind to solve the health and environmental emergency of the area. Tell us how and what you want to do to keep this great central plant alive and modern for Italy and Europe. Let's go to the merits of today's decree-law. We are about to convert a text that again intervenes on the procedure of transfer of the ILVA to third parties. We are also talking about guiding the delicate phase of transition with adequate protection of the environment and the population. However, I would like to stress three points. As regards the first, the decree-law provides for the extraordinary administration of the Group the obligation to return the amounts paid by the State. Second point: the Decree-Law provides for the establishment, in the Presidency of the Council, of a coordination between the Puglia Region and other state administrations in order to facilitate the exchange of information on the implementation of the so-called environmental plan. Third point: by the end of the year, the extraordinary commissioners must transmit to the Ministry of the Environment the mapping, updated to June 2016, of the hazardous waste and the material containing asbestos present in the ILVA plants. These are all issues that are likely to widen the problem. What will happen, for example, if the amounts mentioned earlier are not returned by the Commissioners? Nothing is said in the provision. It seems rather that, if the loans are not repaid, there will be repercussions on the community, with tariff increases in the cost of energy. This would be a damage not only to private users, but also to the industrial sector, already burdened by exorbitant energy costs. But there is more. Europe has also intervened heavily on the ILVA issue. In fact, I would like to point out that the European Commission has decided to move forward in the investigation of State aid granted by the Government to the Taranto area, something to say the least that is not dealt with by the decree-law that we are about to face. For these reasons, in conclusion, on behalf of the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, I declare our strong criticism of a measure that has ineffective measures that under no circumstances address the serious problems of the Taranto industrial pole and of citizens and businesses in the area. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u37	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u38	Mr President, we are here to talk about the ILVA, the tenth ILVA decree-law: ten decree-laws plus some adjustments included in the Stability Act. This umpteenth measure, I believe, can be considered a symptom. Let me explain: it is the symptom that your economic policy, based on this type of industrial policy, no longer works. Not only doesn't work anymore, but it's totally bankrupt. Two things are shocking and reckless. The first is to keep pretending that everything will be fine and that your vision is not only the only one possible, but also the right one. The second is that you apply the same methodology also to solve the issue of banks, which has now become a problem of the banking system. Only in this case, to solve the problem of the banking system, you intend to use the postal savings of Italians, always through Cash deposits and loans. The postal savings of Italians is now the only cash that keeps Italy standing and you are going to use it to lend guarantee to the banking system. What you intend to do, mostly with money not yours, I find it really a very risky maneuver, because postal savings is the only lifesaver for the country and you make a bet that we don't know how it will end. I would also like to understand one point: the workers of Ilva, but also others, have to choose whether to earn or die and, therefore, between work and health; there are pensioners who have to choose whether to eat or take care of themselves; entrepreneurs commit suicide because of despair; savers commit suicide because they have been cheated and now you want to commit the money of pensioners. I understand that the International Monetary Fund says that the longevity of the Mediterranean countries will be a budgetary problem, but I hope you do not think that this will solve the problem. You also always find ways to save banks and also ILVA in this case, but pensioners will have to start a mortgage to supplement the pension and survive. Always following the International Monetary Fund (which I would never have thought to mention), I would like to understand where the emergency plans are in case the global financial markets implode themselves. It is certainly not conceivable overnight to change the system, but I think it is no longer possible to postpone it. We need a clear and long-term project, based on completely different paradigms, which includes transition times between old and new, with precise and defined stages. With the political vision that you carry on with an incomprehensible determination, not only do you not see a serene future, but that future is already mortgaged. I remember, in fact, that there have remained safeguard clauses for 15,133 million euros regarding the year 2017, for 19,571 million euros for 2018 and 19,571 million euros for 2019: a total of safeguard clauses for 55 billion euros (if we want to be precise, 54,375 million euros). Moreover, every year, on average, there are 5 billion interest rates for derivatives that you have always entered into, on which there is always more and more a secret and you cannot know what is going on. So over the next three years, 70 billion euros have already been spent, without even starting to think about the real needs. This means that, to make the old financials, you have already mortgaged the coming years, 2017, 2018 and 2019, and you still haven't solved anything and you don't even have a goal. Keep putting patches on patches, like on an old road, but know that down that road is waiting for us because of you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u40	Mr President, let us take stock of the sad story of Ilva. We have yet another decree-law; we have constitutional statements on articles concerning health protection, environmental protection and safety, freedom and human dignity; we have environmental findings from the European Union and infringement procedures. This is a very serious and lasting industrial, health and environmental emergency, which continues to be addressed with emergency measures which, to date, have unfortunately demonstrated all their limitations. The method and philosophy of the interventions of the Government on the dramatic case of the ILVA have not, in fact, produced concrete results for the salvation of the company, neither for the future of its families, of the employees and of the numerous enterprises of the induced and their workers. The adoption of this umpteenth decree-law is not justified in the light of the fact that state intervention is suitable only if temporary and transitional. I hope that the Government will question the effects of the many emergency decrees and the probable causes of their ineffectiveness. ILVA has been subject to state management since 2013, first through the Commission for environmental reasons, then through the extraordinary administration with the appointment of extraordinary commissioners. In practice, we are talking about a company that has been substantially expropriated, but in all the interventions there has never been any reference to the long term, nor has there been any glimpse of a time horizon beyond a few months, with very few resources available to prepare a concrete plan of strategy for industrial use and a serious plan of environmental recovery, that unfortunately is not yet seen. In particular, that of the need for an industrial plan is a fundamental aspect in order not to transform every measure for the ILVA into a mockery for the territory, for the workers already exhausted by an activity that can no longer know further referrals, for the community Tarantino and Puglia disappointed, perhaps without more hope. The sad and dramatic events of the ILVA case would impose and impose serious, credible, concrete and lasting solutions, but so far - alas - negotiations, agreements and legislation in support have not proved up to the situation. Government action has not proved to be able to manage an affair that concerns not just a company, but the steel company that manages the most important steel production center in Europe, representing a fundamental component of the entire steel industry of our country. We do not disown the complexity of the matter, but an executive up to the situation would have had another step, another strategic approach, another vision of Italian industrial policies. The continuous extension of the time limits, then, also leads to a clear confusion in potential buyers, well aware of the risk to which these provisions are subject, as well as all those that have occurred previously. And with regard to the financial and/or industrial groups interested in ILVA, nothing serious has been done to be convincing in the intentions of the Italian Government. In any case, the postponement of the deadline for the implementation of the environmental recovery plan is to be considered a real madness, especially if this provision is added to the uncertainty about the criminal and administrative responsibilities of the same recovery, in the case in which an industrial group subordinates in the management of the enterprise. Having said that, it remains the problem of the problems, which this decree-law does not address at all and which constitutes the central theme. The citizens of Taranto demand that the extent to which the pollution caused has directly affected the health damage that many Tarantoes and Apulians live on their skin and on that of their family members, who have died from cancer or cardiorespiratory diseases. This decree-law does not, in essence, address the problem, and that is the main reason why, once again, we, like Conservatives and Reformists, have tried to propose amendments that have remained unheard in the Commission. Will it be a good time? The record doesn't look good. That is why I join modestly in giving voice to the thinking community of the Taranto and the South, which expresses disappointment at the action of the Government, distrust of the powers of the State and the ability to resolve the problems that a Government requires.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u41	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u42	Mr President, I have little to say, because everything has been said about the rhetoric of these Ilva decrees-laws. It seems to me curious that the whole of the business world, liberal and also part of the extremely liberal Democratic Party, which stand up and straighten their backs when we talk about support for small businesses or citizenship income and are scandalized because they say that we are statesmen and welfare workers. You, on the other hand, are the ones who want to do, who want to move on, who do not cry and who do not complain. That's what your Premier says. I would then like to know how you stand in front of a mega company that alone does not know how to stand and always needs the state. It's strange and it's very inconsistent. Then you sit there talking about jobs and jobs, things you don't know about. I have also asked to speak in order to invite Mr Bellanova, who is a Salento and who is well aware of the problems of our region and knows how vexed, mortified and impoverished the South in recent years, especially with the Renzi Government, to take a trip to Taranto and perhaps to rent or buy an apartment in the Tamburi district. He might perhaps take the opportunity to open the windows, even though the mayor has issued a resolution asking citizens to keep the windows and doors closed. In Taranto, in fact, this happens. Only last week the mayor issued a resolution asking citizens to keep doors and windows closed. Because you can't open your windows in Taranto. In the heart of Europe it is better to keep the windows closed. As if this could be enough not to die of cancer. Just as there are children in the cancer wards who are still waiting for the visit of Prime Minister Renzi. Visit that he promised during a Feast of Unity, to attract your applause. He promised that he would not abandon the children of Taranto and that he would fight against the European Union and save them. Instead save the ILVA again. Save again this great industry that standing cannot stand, in your silence and complicity. At the same time as all this, our South is still impoverished and impoverished by the new pipelines, from Cerano, from a coal-fired power station that kills even in Brindisi. And everything is magnified and aggravated by the ILVA, because the winds do not arrive only on the windows and on the doors of Taranto but descend to Brindisi, Lecce and in all the Ionian. Therefore, I repeat my request to Mr Bellanova to buy a house in Taranto and come and live there, despite the fact that there are resolutions. And don't do that to me. Come and buy a house in Taranto and live in Taranto, and open the windows even when the mayor intimates to keep them closed because there is too much pollution because of the 11th decree-law of the ILVA. The Democratic Party is there to open its hands and sigh. He's sitting there doing enough, but you're the ones with the new guy, the ones who meet the people who want to do business, the ones who finally make it on their own and don't complain. That's not the ILVA! Shut it down! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u43	Senator Scalia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u44	Mr President, many Members have pointed out, with negative emphasis, that this is the eleventh decree-law that we are about to convert. It seems to me that this observation bears witness to the commitment of the Government and Parliament to a very difficult and extremely complex affair. It was and is a matter of reconciling interests which are all worthy of protection: the right and interest to a healthy environment, the right to work, the national interest in maintaining production in a strategic sector such as the steel industry. The Government has made this path, which is rugged and necessarily work in progress, inspired by the reasonable balance of these fundamental rights. This path was endorsed by the Constitutional Court with judgment No. 85 of 2013, which rejected and declared inadmissible the questions of constitutional legitimacy raised by the Taranto Public Prosecutor with reference to the second of the decrees-laws of this series, identifying precisely in the action of the Government this reasonable balance between interests and values all primary. Indeed, in the area of fundamental rights guaranteed by the first part of the Constitution, there is one that prevails over the other. Our task - of Parliament and the Government - is to protect, contemporaneize and balance them all. As the rapporteurs have clearly said, this measure is necessary, on the one hand, to respond to indications from the European Commission and, on the other hand, to facilitate the conclusion of this path with the transfer of the industrial complex to a group that fully resumes production activity and guarantees employment levels. The first objective responds to the shift in the extraordinary administration of the burden of repayment of the 300 million loan; the second objective responds, for example, to the possibility for tenderers to propose changes to the environmental plan. It is true that the environmental plan has been adapted to the best techniques available four years in advance: it entered into force throughout Europe in mid-2016, the environmental plan has been adapted to the technical ones already in 2012. We are in the field of technology, science and technology, and it is possible that better, more effective and perhaps less expensive solutions are proposed, which must be evaluated, as provided for in the Decree-Law, when assessing tenders by the Committee of Experts, before the successful tenderer is identified. This requirement is also met by the fact that everyone considers exemption and exclusion of criminal or administrative liability for acts that are implementing the environmental plan and not for an area of impunity. For the implementation of the environmental plan it is ensured that a formal violation does not give rise to seizures and does not result in further stops to the process of reorganization of that area and the resumption of the productive activity. I should like to conclude by saying that the Government is right to defend this sector and to set its feet in Europe by calling for a review of the rules on State aid to the steel industry. It makes me particularly aware that those who cry out every day against this Europe of constraints, dullness and limitations, then call back the infringement procedures that the European Union is operating against us when it comes to defending a national interest. [[Call the president back.]] I'm gonna close it with one joke. In a situation of overcapacity of steel and steel production there is the interest of other countries that press on Europe because Taranto closes, but it is Italy's interest that Taranto stays open. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u45	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u46	Mr President, as everyone knows, the Decree-Law deals with the rules on the procedure for the disposal of the ILVA Group's complexes, with regard to the modification and implementation of the plan of environmental and health protection measures and activities, as well as the rights and obligations of the buyers or tenants of the company's complex. As of 2012, this is the eleventh decree-law that, in one way or another, attempts to address the problems of ILVA. This new intervention previews a series of modifications to the normative system adopted for the cession of the company and its assets. The plant, which today still has 12,000 employees, records a loss of 2.5 million euros per day (as evidenced by the...Corriere della Sera) and for three years it does not publish a consultable budget. The last one was three years ago. The state, in order to give it up, has again put its hands on the legislation. The stated objective of some of the Commission's decrees was to subtract the management of the Ilva from the Riva group to give it to the State, which, according to the President of the Council, should have transformed it into an example according to the norm. We have not succeeded and, therefore, we want to sell the factory without having solved the node of the standardization, encouraging the private to the point of freeing it from any problem with the penal immunity, the possibility of writing the environmental plan without public prescriptions (although with an alleged preventive control of experts) and providing that, even if the plan is not validated, there may be possibility of extensions. In particular, it is expected that the repayment of the loan of EUR 300 million (for which a European Commission investigation has already been extended) will no longer be borne by the buyer but by ILVA itself. Then it regulates the sub-process that should be opened after the submission of tenders. During this stage, the tenderer submits the environmental plan to the Committee of Experts, with changes to the one already approved. The Committee of Experts shall make its observations and proposed amendments within one hundred and twenty days. This measure is a genuine unacceptable negotiation between the tenderer and the ministerial appointment committee. As I have already said in the Commission, how can we say 'yes' if the person who buys or rents ILVA will be given criminal immunity? If he doesn't have to, in a certain way, do the Bonifice? If it can change the environmental and health plan and, if, last, it will have a further extension of eighteen months for the realization of the environmental requirements strictly related to the health of the workers and the Taranto population? How can we say "yes" to a decree-law that extends the immunity of penalties, already foreseen for the extraordinary commissioners ILVA, for the conducts put in place in implementation of the environmental plan, also to the buyers and tenants of the company? This requirement is set out in Article 1 (4) (b). It would in fact mean saying 'yes' to an absurdity, to a right of'science fiction'. Let us not forget that in 2013 the Legamjonici Committee brought the first collective appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, followed by another appeal of 2015, brought by other applicants. Italy is under trial today and has an obligation to submit its observations by 30 September next, after obtaining an extension here too. We should all say loudly here that it is not the derogations, the rifts from legality and the exceptions the roads for a good relationship between industry, the environment and health. Roberto Della Seta, ecologist, former president of Legambiente and senator of the PD, today founder of Green Italia, wrote that behind almost all the decrees save ILVA there is a same "philosophy": ILVA must be kept alive at all costs, because it gives work to thousands of people and because steel is a strategic production. It must also be kept alive at the cost of reducing the guarantees to protect health and the environment a little bit. In fact, I believe - and we all believe - the exact opposite is true: producing steel, like any other artifact, whistling with laws and health is not "modern," it is not "economic" and goes against every market logic. That the ILVA was or could become a problem had been understood since the 1970s. After 40 years, there doesn't seem to be a big difference. In a top secret cablegram published by Wikileaks, it already explains the failure of local and national policies on the city of Taranto. This was written by the Americans: "Taranto is a (...) steel city in the old south of Italy. It is considered a test bench in Italy for the capital intensive basic industry as a means of stimulating economic development in Southern Italy. Most observers believe that the experiment was unsuccessful. This was written about forty years ago. And again: Taranto is afflicted by several problems: it is a city where there is a single industrial group, without adequate local and national planning, with an inefficient local administration and a poor and often corrupt political class. To these reasons of suffering is added the prospect of increasing unemployment due to the end of the local building boom and the global over-production of steel. Again, always according to this cable: "Prosperity and almost full-time employment in Taranto have not produced the great improvement in the quality of life expected. Certainly they did not stimulate the secondary economic growth that many expected. Inadequate local leadership on all fronts, along with some bad political choices (and the poverty of what has been accomplished) have contributed to these discouraging results. (...) The situation in Taranto will be cited as another reason - in addition to the excess capacity - to oppose the construction of a fifth Italian steel plant in Gioia Tauro in Calabria. This was written by the Americans: then we know how it ended with Gioia Tauro, as we know, and it is before everyone's eyes that no great improvement in the quality of life has been achieved, as expected: indeed, far from it. Finally, I move a further explicit criticism of the Government. How is it possible, only to show that the Government is good and available (in this case, I am referring to the Undersecretary Bellanova), to accept, with a favourable opinion, an agenda in the Chamber of Deputies, while the Senate, for the same agenda, is asked for a rewording? Moreover, this is an insulting rewording, which I invite you to listen to: the Government undertakes to consider whether it is appropriate to monitor the implementation of the provisions referred to in the preamble. We practically commit the government to assessing the possibility of monitoring. I wonder: shouldn't the government's role and profession be to implement what the provisions lay down? As well as harmful to citizens, you are ridiculous again this time. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u47	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, once again, by analyzing this umpteenth decree-law, which takes into account the situation of the Ilva, it is possible to become aware of how well-structured this Europe is destined to fail, especially for the sacrifices it imposes on its citizens and its workers. It is a European Union based above all on profit and trade in goods; a Europe devoted to the facilitation of large financial capital and powerful lobbying, rather than on the side of the individual's difficulties generated by the profound differences between States. It is absurd even to think that a State cannot grant public aid for the restructuring of firms in difficulty, in particular when it comes to companies that should be a flagship, a national strategic interest to be protected and preserved at any cost: companies whose demolition would mean the destruction not only of a city or a single region, but of the entire State. I refer to the letter sent to us from Brussels. Should we just look at why the European States, first and foremost, should think about competitiveness and competition? It is a combination destined to a single solution: the sale of one of the Italian excellences. A demolition which presupposes the loss of thousands of jobs and lives. I wonder how we can talk about the competitiveness of European states when they do not travel at the same speed. In my opinion, we can only talk about fair and healthy competitiveness when competitors have the same opportunities and resources from the start; otherwise, we risk that they will always win, those who are already benefiting. But, beyond that, I do not find it right on any level that the state cannot take responsibility for the restructuring of the Ilva, which on the contrary should be nationalized with a management developed by the workers, thinking of all those workers who over the years have fallen ill and died in the name of the profit of the usual. Because if a State does not allow itself to save its excellences, especially in a period of deep recession, it risks that the whole of Italy will become an area of industrial crisis and will deepen into irreversible losses. Why not give a State the opportunity to self-regulate and manage the problems that only the same can know perfectly makes the concept of sovereignty completely disappear. And, without sovereignty, what state are we talking about? If the aim is to ensure that another piece of our industrial history is sold out, then this fantastic Union should say so immediately, clearly and roundly. As happened with Italcementi, to the detriment of the workers first of all. And instead here is yet another decree-law, which would like to manage such an important and delicate affair with superficiality and without a concrete plan projected over the long period. Zero prospective vision and billions of euros spent to patch up here and there, in case of first need, without the slightest planning. The Commission, rather than protecting citizens after years of environmental disasters that have undermined the health and work of a large part of the population, seeks to remedy everything through favors and derogations from safety. It is disconcerting that we are talking about criminal, civil and administrative immunity, which will also be extended to future buyers and their delegates, as an incentive not to have to account for the results of the activity that will be carried out, without any effective guarantee for employment levels. The 300 million euros will no longer be charged to the person who will take over, but these costs will again fall on the state and consequently on the citizens, who will be able to pay for the inefficiency of a commissioner's management. In the same way, the integrated environmental authorization can be modified to your liking by those who will manage the fate of the company. To date, appropriate measures have not been implemented to prevent the continuation of serious pollution; on the contrary, there is a failure to comply with the requirements of the integrated environmental authorisation. Everything slips, like there's all the time in this world. But go tell all the family members of people who have lost affection, livelihood, and huge resources for medical care. On the other hand, here comes to the rescue the principle of international matrix according to which "polluter pays," which is realized in the fact that it pays no one or that, for greater profits, it often agrees to continue to pollute and to account for some money fine. Thus the solutions seem always to be dumped on the shoulders of citizens and workers, where the law of maximum profit exists and where the security of the territory becomes only a useless harp. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it has been a year since, with the Committee of Inquiry into Accidents and Occupational Diseases, we went to the Ilva in Taranto. I must say that nothing has changed, if not for worse. What had emerged by listening to the workers, their representatives, the associations of the sick and those who are no longer there and the competent local bodies was very clear: work yes, but decent work and not to the detriment of the health of the workers and the people of the territory. To me this seemed to understand, and who wants to deny me do it. They asked to be protected by the institutions and therefore not to be abandoned by the State and by politics, because the price they paid in that territory, and which they still pay, is unbearable in terms of safety and health. Instead, once again, you do not listen to the territory and you do not listen to the people. We are practically at the eleventh emergency measure, so it is clear that the other ten have miserably failed. It is a new measure - it is to be said, of course - in line with the precedents, that is, empty, which gives no response either to the workers or to the territory. In fact, this provision provides for potential buyers to develop an environmental plan that will then be evaluated in one hundred and twenty days by three experts: practically we go back, as if nothing had happened in these years, as if the demands of the workers and citizens of that territory had nothing to do with the truth. Yet the demands made to our Commission were clear and feasible. The first: cover of primary parks; the second: suction of GRF dust (ferrous scrap management); the third: Proven system for coking plant batteries, which is a patented state-of-the-art system for the control of furnace pressure; the fourth: full cover of conveyor belts (today we are about 65 percent). But the demand that has come even stronger and clearer from all the bodies that we have heard was to strengthen the security control bodies. I have made passages, because I have many contacts there, and I do not know that this has been done; indeed, I am even told by very reliable sources that they do not even have the simplest means and machines to be able to carry out checks, such as those with the microclimate or other. That is what we are talking about, and that is what the people who have listened to us have asked us with tears when our Commission came to the place, but unfortunately, once again, I see that there is none of this. They also told me that Taranto needs more attention and resources from the point of view of prevention and of the health supply, given the criticality in which it is placed, but these necessary measures are not even remotely foreseen in this new measure of yours. After having been on the spot with the Commission and listening to so many people, seeing it extend again for eighteen months, as if the time given for environmental recovery was not enough, it is really something on which I invite you to think (which we do now in a few), even if even here few who reflect do not have the ability to put into practice what they say. Indeed, and everyone knows this, including the stones, even future entrepreneurs, if there are future entrepreneurs, are not bound by this measure to guarantee employment levels: the mockery is added to the disaster. The people we listened to almost begged us to do these things, but then reading this decree-law carefully I find absolutely nothing of everything we were asked to do, and this thing really regrets me. In fact, I have always said that people should never be allowed to think that politics is not doing their job. Yet, once again, we have committed ourselves to making sure that everyone thinks that politics is no good now. Another problem that workers, associations and trade unions have raised is the emergency situation that affects the thousands of workers in the industry due to the expiry of social shock absorbers. In this case there would have been a real need for an emergency measure, an urgency that would have been truly understood by that territory, as well as in the area of security. On this issue too, however, the Government has not responded, but on the other hand from a government that implements the jobs act and that puts hand to vouchers - we listen to it every day - we no longer expect anything. Well, I don't want to make populism - anyone who knows me knows I never do it - but I would like to make a little note. If this government had really wanted to intervene on security issues, it was enough - I say this because it has passed - to bring together the referendum on drills in the local elections. We spent 300-400 million more money with which many things could have been done in this area. Once again, however, it has been decided not to do so. Needless to say, if I had resumed the speech I did a year ago on this subject, I could have easily made a copy and glued it and no one would have noticed. I have always said that this measure - the tenth - did not provide answers on the safety and health of workers in that territory. In the same way, even the eleventh does not foresee anything, on the contrary, if possible, the provision to our examination worsens the situation even more because it provides for an additional eighteen months to say that safety will be done but when it will happen. Instead, from the inspection we did, it was clear that the needs were different. I am sorry that once again someone is given the floor to say that politics does not care about these things. Anyone who knows me knows that work for me is a fundamental thing. The government would do well - and unfortunately it does not - to defend the work. The feeling that is given to the outside - and I think that everyone has understood it by now - is that the work must be there but as long as you do not expect safety. It's really crazy! I believe that this is not worthy of this country, something that offends this country and offends that territory that has already paid a very high price from this point of view. I do not think it is necessary to add anything else because those who want to understand understand understand perfectly. I would like to say one last thing, something I have always said, from the very first moment I set foot in this House: when the judiciary intervenes on issues relating to work and safety at work, when the judiciary is forced to intervene on these issues, it means that politics has failed and once again this policy and this majority have lost the opportunity to prove otherwise, and it is truly a shame. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u50	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u51	Mr President, 11,550 deaths in the seven years considered, 1,650 deaths per year; 26,999 admissions, 3,857 per year. Considering only the districts of Tamburi and Borgo, which are closer to the plant, we have 637 dead, 91 dead a year and 4,536 hospitalized, 648 a year. These are the data of the epidemiological evaluation of the experts of part of the Taranto Prosecutor's Office. This is what we talk about when we talk about ILVA. They are outcomes for which there is and is declared the strong scientific evidence of a possible damage attributable precisely to the plant. I no longer want to speak only with our words or with the words of environmentalists. I would also like to refer to and read the opinions of other bodies or entities, for example the opinion contained in the summary report of ARPA Puglia, which was sent to Mr Realacci during the hearings which were held during the examination of the draft law for the conversion of Decree No 68 in the Chamber of Deputies. The ARPA Puglia summary report says: The environmental criticalities related to the current activity of ILVA, referred to in the annexes, show how already in the current state, due to the failure to complete the AIA requirements and in any case their insufficient to guarantee adequate levels of environmental and health protection, there is the need for a restrictive revision of the current AIA and the Environmental Plan in force and in any case the need for full compliance with the requirements. Also the assessment of the health damage, elaborated according to the regional law transposed in AIA, allowed the implementation of all the AIA prescriptions with productive levels beyond the six million tons of steel annually. - and all the interested parties that have been at the hearing for the previous decree-law have assured us that there will certainly be a production greater than 6 million tons annually - was a picture of inacceptability of the risk. These are the words of ARPA Puglia, which is part of the national network of environmental agencies. The same Agency continues: In this context, any delay in full and immediate implementation, not only of the AIA requirements, but of effective measures to counter the critical issues highlighted during the recent controls and monitoring, in fact represents a maintenance of clear risk levels, those that have been reported in the expert report of part of the Prosecutor's Office. At present, according to what has been reported to us in the hearing to the Chamber a few days ago during the examination of the measure, the following criticalities remained: the lack or incomplete realization of structural interventions, such as the closing of conveyor belts and cover of the parks, the remaking of the coking plants, the waterproofing of the areas in which the storage of the waste is carried out and of the areas related to blast furnaces, as well as those of installation of the filters to sleeves; critical management of the waste and the by-products; failure to remove the large quantities of waste stored in areas seized and relative operations of characterization of the areas potentially contaminated; poor management of the anomalous events, malfunctions and accidents (sloping); poor automation of the processes; criticalities relative to the diffuse and fugitive emissions, with reference to the management of the dusts of abatement, that is of the dust that are not chimney, but that are lost during the journey, that are many and that are not detected. The resolution of these critical issues is absolutely necessary and urgent. There are also considerable delays in the reclamations which represent an additional primary source of pollution. Again, always not to use the words of the 5 Star Movement and not even those of the environmentalists - who seem to you characters out of reality - I want to bring back the words of the former president of Assindustria of Taranto, Antonio Caramia, an entrepreneur, an industrialist, according to which this ILVA decree does not care about Taranto and Tarantini: it grants immunity to new buyers, without offering real guarantees in the matter of environmental recovery, maintenance of occupational levels, industrial plans. Insanity has come to such an extent that, in order to pay the river of money that the State is elating to the ILVA, a stag on the electricity bill may be necessary. This is an element of great risk. All this convinces us even more than one thing: the ILVA must be closed. An industrial cycle that produces disease and death must be closed (it is not said by the 5 Star Movement, but by the industrialists); a model that no longer gives wealth and development to our territory must be closed; a reality that does not offer guarantees and employment stability must be closed; a factory that produces debts and pollution must be closed; an industry artificially kept alive by eleven decree-laws must be closed. The future of Taranto cannot be marked by wind days, by the days of strong wind, in which the maximum that can be said to the inhabitants of the Tamburi district is: "Stay at home." What's the next step? Health recommendations that advise you not to breathe? It's too much. We're all over it. The way forward is only one: to abandon an impossible recovery to undertake new opportunities for development that aim to an innovative and widespread industrial system, to the valorization of the agri-food and tourist supply chain, to the implementation of the transports and the logistics. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u52	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the eleventh decree-law on the ILVA in Taranto has arrived in this House since December 2012 to date. A set of rules that little or nothing has solved. This last decree-law has provisions for the completion of the procedure of the cession of the business complexes of the ILVA Group, but the times for the cession risk to become long, also because the offers presented from the two roped ones that will face in the contest for the acquisition of the plant of Taranto will be submitted to a group of experts, appointed from the Ministry of the environment, who will have to evaluate the consistency of the offers with the environmental plan. Not only, therefore, has the Government considered it necessary to entrust the management of the ILVA to three extraordinary commissioners, but now it considers appropriate to wait for the validation of the committee of experts on the submitted offers. But was it not enough to rely on the experience and professionalism of the extraordinary commissioners, since they know the situation in Ilva? No, for the Government the best solution is to pass the witness from one expert group to another, with the inevitable consequence of returning to who knows when the rebirth of a steel pole of strategic importance and not to solve the problems related to environmental reclamation and the health of the citizens. It is the eleventh decree-law that does not help to make progress; it represents, in essence, the extension of an emergency situation that I believe is no longer acceptable. In addition, they can be seen in the content of this decree-law additional and serious critical profiles and very few positive notes. With regard to the only positive aspect that can be seen in the measure, I agree with the amendment approved by the Chamber which favours the companies of the pipeline, with which priority has been given to the payment of the credits of the supplying companies. In fact, it is not to be underestimated that the issue is not confined exclusively to ILVA, but around it there are hundreds of other companies, which base their survival and economic continuity exclusively on commercial relations and supply with ILVA. As for the most important issues, it is contrary to any legal logic and to the principles of a rule of law based on the rule of law, to have foreseen a judicial shield that protects buyers, tenants and their delegates regarding the responsibilities related to the implementation of the ILVA environmental plan. This is an extension of an instrument already in force for the Special Commissioners of Ilva and their delegates. The rule, contained in this decree-law, provides for civil, criminal and administrative immunity for those who, once acquired the company, will start the environmental plan. It is stated that it is an exception, temporarily defined, which applies until June 2017 or, at most, until December 2018, if there is an extension of the environmental plan. I believe that this provision, which excludes Commissioners, buyers and tenants and their delegates from the liability regime, is a legal anomaly of absolute seriousness. It is truly unique, however dangerous, that, by means of a decree-law directly issued by the Executive, limits should be set to judicial and administrative action with reference to the possible hypothesis of environmental crime. By law new offences, i.e. environmental offences, are included in the penal code; meanwhile, by decree-law, an immunity regime is outlined that excludes the re-enforcement of the offence and the consequent punishableness of some persons possibly involved. Second, in the previous decree-law it was arranged that the Government would allocate about 300 million euros to manage the transitional phase before the transfer. It was also established that the buyer would repay the loan, plus interest. Now, in the measure under consideration, there is a risk that these sums will end up being paid in the electricity bill by Italian citizens, who suddenly become unwitting financiers. Everything is mentioned in the involvement of the Environmental Energy Services Fund, which will have to cover the costs deriving from the €300 million paid to the extraordinary administration in 2016. The sum, in order not to incur the infringement procedures provided for by European State aid legislation, will have to be returned by 2018, with the obvious risk that it will be recovered through increases in the electricity bill. A simple agenda, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, which commits the Government, in case of a lack of cash, to identify the resources necessary to avoid any increases in the Italian bill, does not leave us restless. It is a fact that this Government has targeted the electricity bill to charge Italian consumers hidden taxes. An example is also the government's decision to impose the payment of the RAI fee, inserting it co-actively in the electricity bill. Forza Italia, also on that occasion, expressed positions strongly contrary to the choices of the Government, which do not fail to vex us citizens with higher and higher taxes. In conclusion, I believe that it is completely useless to proceed repeatedly with decree-laws, on which very often, as in this case, the question of trust by the Government is raised. Not only are we faced with the bizarre attitude of the Commission to neutralize and exonerate Parliament's own functions, but it is still not possible to support it, since it leaves unchanged the critical situation of the Ilva in Taranto and does not give any solution to the two essential priorities, namely the economic recovery of the steel industry among the most important in Europe and the necessary and improcrastinable environmental reclamation. [[Applause from Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u55	Mr President, I think it is absolutely legitimate not to share the decree-law in question, nor the action that the Government has taken over the ILVA in recent months; however, it continues to strike at me the commitment - which I have also heard in this debate - to demolish any initiative taken in recent months on ILVA, even arriving, in order to give to the Government, to rehabilitate the Riva Group, as I have heard in the ongoing debate, forgetting that it is not the victim of an expropriation, but has very heavy responsibilities in what has happened. I would not like to see this polemic forget that on the one hand there are those who have created the problem and, on the other hand, those who are trying to solve it today. I am also struck by the underestimating of the difficulty of a company such as the one proposed by this Parliament and the Government itself; it is a very difficult undertaking. In order to achieve this, I believe it is right that the Government and Parliament should put every possible instrument in place to do quickly, to do well, to achieve the goal we have set ourselves from the start: to keep ILVA alive by putting in place all the means to ensure health and work and putting in the first place environmental rehabilitation and reclamations. It is no coincidence that the Government has allocated 800 million euros to carry out the reclamations; it is no coincidence that those who buy will be held - and I am sorry, but someone has misread the decree - to comply with an integrated environmental authorisation that provides for very heavy interventions. [[Comments of Senator Martelli]] You'll have to guarantee it. In the decree-law we have introduced another element: we have given time to evaluate, together with the companies that want to buy, the modalities and the paths to realize those prescriptions, just to get to the environmental recovery. In this debate there was talk of immobility. I heard speeches that practically told us that we started dealing with ILVA today. I would like to remind you that, thanks to previous decrees-laws, 112 of the interventions provided for by the integrated environmental authorization have already been concluded and 58 others are in progress, so we are working on them; it is not true that the previous decrees, on the very front of environmental recovery, have produced nothing. That's the goal. The first is to protect the environment, to clean up the area, to protect the health of citizens. [[Comments of Senator Martelli]] Then there's another one. There are 11,000 workers, 15,000 if we count the induced. There is an issue that concerns this country's industrial policy. You may not agree, but this Government has committed itself to safeguarding a fundamental part of this country's industry, the steel industry; it is doing so now on ILVA and it has done so on Terni. I believe that the State and the Government have every interest in promoting every possible action, within the framework of European rules, on the one hand, to safeguard a sector that has always been strategic for our country, such as the steel industry, and, on the other hand, to safeguard jobs. Also in this case from the interventions it seemed that ILVA is a desert of the Tartars. ILVA is a place where you work, where you continue to produce, where there is a solidarity contract for 2,000-3,000 workers; ILVA is a place where it is produced. He's up. The other aspect, which I would like not to escape in this debate, is that the government of this country on Taranto has set itself another objective: to relaunch the city as a whole. The day after tomorrow the second floor of the Archaeological Museum of Taranto, one of the most important museums in our country, will be inaugurated; it is an investment by this Government. I would also like to remind you, again on the employment front, that in these days we are discussing the future of 520 workers in the port of Taranto, of which the Government is working to guarantee them a future. [[Recalls of the President]] I'm done, Mr. President. These are the objectives of the government, these are the things that have been done. In this debate I did not hear any alternative; I heard accusations of rhetoric, I felt solidarity with the Riva Group. They tell us what they want to do and what the government should have done those who tell us today that things are not going well. [[Senator Martelli's comments.]] There is only one Group that has explained what the alternative is. And the alternative is to close the ILVA. [[Senator Martelli's comments.]] But those who propose to close the ILVA must explain what will happen to those workers, what will become of that induced one. I've heard passionate interventions. I've heard important surgeries. I don't know if the government's call is the only way, but I really didn't hear any more in this debate. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u56	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u57	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u58	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-667.ana.u59	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 27 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.02 p.m.
