ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate question time (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure on public security measures to prevent and combat fundamentalist terrorism and the national reception system for migrants, to which the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to questions about public security measures aimed at preventing and combating fundamentalist terrorism. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u6	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr Minister, the topicality of the problem we are debating is, unfortunately, a very serious one. The recent events in France have highlighted more than ever the dramatic situation and, speaking with the people, we all see how strong and pressing the concern and the need to be sure of the ability of the Forces of Order and the Government to control as much as possible, within the limits of the human, a situation certainly of enormous importance and perhaps, in some ways, even above the overall capacities of man. In any case, you never give up. A strong theme comes out of the French events and, that is, the question of religious fundamentalism, for which more than ever, in the current situation of immigration in Italy, I believe it is important to know what measures tend to prevent the contrast of a religious nature and to guarantee the maximum protection in a perspective certainly not of war of religions but of overcoming the problems; perspective that requires to have a security and a strong perception of the ability to control phenomena.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u9	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, in the field of the prevention of terrorism, I would like to ask you a very specific question. We read in today's newspapers - and this is not new - news of religious leaders, of imams who are being driven away as a result of the discovery of their active commitment to foment violence, holy war, acts of terrorism. The news, however, always refers to reports from the faithful of religious or cultural centers (whoever wants to), and it never turns out that there have been preventive actions. The question, then, is: is there a preventive action? Are there controls in those places? The law enforcement agencies and the authorities have controls carried out so that there can really be prevention and we can identify the dangerous subjects and activities that can spring from there and push people to perform acts similar to those of which we have news throughout Europe? I think it's important to know. I am of the idea that places of worship should be respected, but certainly controlled, since the extremist religious matrix of this terrorism is clearly before everyone's eyes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u12	SANTANGELO (M5S). After greeting the President and the honourable citizens who listen to us from outside, I address the Minister. What measures have you taken to strengthen the operational capacity of our Forces of Order and, therefore, to effectively prevent and combat fundamentalist terrorism? Beyond the special forces, fundamental but not exhaustive in this fight, do you think that our agents are prepared to face terrorist emergency situations? Is the operational staff adequately equipped and in sufficient number to protect the many sensitive objectives present on the national territory? We understand, from the voice of the same agents, from the regional secretaries of the Autonomous Police Union (SAP), that, in spite of what you say in the newspapers, our Forces of Order are in a condition of "minor defense" compared not only to the terrorist risk, but also to other criminal events of minor social danger. I would now like to report to you some data that you certainly know: our agents train to shoot only three times a year and often at their expense; they are not trained to shoot at objectives or shapes in motion, nor at night. What if an attack happens at night? The equipment is obsolete, the old steering wheel, the staff in worrying sub-staff: in 2003 there were in fact about 104,000 units, while today there are 93,000, and therefore about 10,000 units less, just now that internal security is the emergency. There is a lack of control at one of the main locations, the Roma Termini station, where there are no fixed or mobile bollards, which means that any person can emulate what happened in Nice at any time. What have you done or are you doing to solve this shameful situation? What are you doing for the safety of our country? In conclusion, Minister, we are asking for certain answers. Don't tell us about the perception of safety. We don't want slogans. We want sure and sure answers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u15	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, in recent times and weeks we have seen a series of attacks, especially in Europe (in France and Germany) of obvious jihadist origin, which have characterized themselves in some aspects which must be carefully studied. They have introduced a new type of terrorist crime, because it brings to the fore and enhances the figure of the so-called solitary bomber, that is, the one who apparently has no direct affiliation and therefore a precise connection with a terrorist organization, even if then from the developments of the investigations it is always found a source of inspiration or of the accomplices that help the subject to carry out the attack. They are attackers who, almost all, have mental disorders, prey to the murderous delirium in name we do not know which god, who unfortunately target so-called civil and easy targets, those who in jargon are called soft targets, precisely because they have a poor defensive ability. Minister, I would like to ask you, precisely in order to mount such phenomena and repeated incidents, your Ministry, the Viminal, what kind of measures you are taking to combat and combat this new form of terrorist threat.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u18	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Minister, the terrorist acts linked to fundamentalism that are affecting Europe, starting from France, are undoubtedly the result of many causes. Certainly the repetition of these episodes also represents the failure of the integration policies implemented by many European countries over the last fifty years. Those who do this are, in fact, mostly second-generation immigrants, born and raised in Europe and who have obviously never felt European. In light of this, we ask to know whether this Government intends to work seriously on a programme of integration of foreign citizens covering the most important elements of social life, starting from the right of citizenship (the bill has been stationary for too long in the First Commission in the Senate), from school education and the right to study, from entering the world of work, from the freedom to profess one's religion in appropriate places of worship and not in improvised situations. Do not discriminate, and therefore guarantee equal rights for all, is the only way not to increase hatred and radicalism and guarantee security. Our country is a relatively recent destination for immigration, but I do not think it should make the mistake of underestimating the issue of integration. Indeed, in our opinion, today's history teaches that this should be a priority element of intervention of a government that looks not only at the forthcoming elections, but at the future of our country and Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u21	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr Minister, following the jihadist terrorist events linked to ISIS, the need to increase the feeding and use of European and international databases in the fields of security, movement and migration emerged in Community and international fora, such as NATO. Intelligence based on personal and biometric data becomes a fundamental tool for piercing the wall of anonymity that surrounds the phenomenon of jihadism and to reinforce the meticulous work of investigation necessary to dismantle its structure. An integrated intergovernmental framework, which facilitates a holistic approach to the acquisition, collection and sharing of information material by police and military forces, is therefore essential. I would ask you, Minister, if you do not think it is necessary to get rid of existing legislation and overcome existing compartmentalizations to date. Having therefore fixed the guidelines dictated by the international framework for the protection of human rights, the safeguard of the relevant public interest, the safeguard of life and physical safety, the conduct of the defensive investigations, I ask you whether it is not also appropriate to evaluate the hypothesis of a collaboration between the Ministries of the interior and the defence, in order to identify a series of cases in which it is possible to revise the rules governing the entry of data in the CED of the Department of Public Security, also with reference to the processing of personal data related to military operations carried out abroad.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u24	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Minister, the investigations after the massacre in Nice also lead to Italy. There would be a list of 14 suspicious names to the attention of anti-terrorism. I would ask you to confirm that there is a worrying jihadist wire that leads to Albania and could also pose risks to our internal security. The main question I ask you is, however, another. The contrast to the caliphate involves a great mobilization of intelligence - and the Italian Services are proving to work - but it also and necessarily requires the collaboration of Muslims living in Italy, one and a half million faithful still without a law regulating mosques. Is there, and to what extent, this collaboration on the part of imams and by how many of them? Furthermore, the Government has stated the principle that the same rules can be applied to suspects of terrorism as are used to suspects of the Mafia. Do you not think it appropriate to provide for foreign fighters who also fall into Italy the case of war criminals in order to strengthen this type of prevention and repression? Finally, you invited the cops to carry with you the weapons of order even out of service. The SAP union replied that guns are too bulky to be worn in civilian clothes and ask, therefore, to be able to buy smaller guns with a different weapon port. What answers to this kind of problem?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u27	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr Minister, we want to have certainties, which must not only be given by the statements you made to the press a few hours ago and which seem to pave the way for today's question time. I am referring in particular to the two new expulsions carried out in the last few hours. We want there not to be operations done just to appear in the press, but to ask for certainty. And in order to have these certainties, we want to know from the government what are the passages - they are evidenced from the press, but also from the police investigations - of the killers that hit in Nice, that they have hit previously in Paris, or those same of Brussels, through our country. You see, Minister, we are sure that there is an important intelligence activity, but we want to be sure that our police forces are not thrown into the streets giving citizens a semblance of security, security that, due to the scarce equipment available, they are not able to ensure. In order to be able to give security, we also need to put men on the field. Last May, a competition was held which has still been blocked. In this case we want to have information from you about the Government's will to proceed with the recruitment of new Forces of Order. There are 600 candidates - in this case - who have not yet been recruited, as the competition has been blocked. You know very well that if this competition does not unlock, we will not be able to proceed to the new competition scheduled for next autumn. We wonder which Forces of order we have available on the field, how they are equipped and what capabilities they have to cope with, with the instrumentation available, and also in conjunction with the military on the roads.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u30	Mr Bruni (CoR). Minister, the phenomenon of terrorist attacks in recent years culminated in last winter - with regard to the major attacks - with the events in Paris (Saint Denis, the Bataclan) and, with the exception of the parenthesis of Charlie Hebdo, after that moment it has been recorded in recent months, and in recent weeks in particular - as previously noted by Senator Mancuso - the phenomenon of the lightest objectives, the so-called soft targets, and the presence of solitary wolves or emulators, with deviances and even psychic problems. The first question is precisely this: how do you intend to proceed by improving the efficiency of the armed forces, police and intelligence services in relation to this phenomenon, bearing in mind that soft targets - for example - during the period we are living, are mainly the tourist resorts, the places of great crowd - which must not be as large as Nice - but also all coastal locations that are currently affected by tourist flows? I would also like to ask you how we can also deal with the phenomenon of emulation in relation to information and the transmission of news which can then create additional conditions from this point of view. Finally, as far as major terrorist organisations are concerned, we want to understand at the regulatory level how the Government wants to intervene to do prevention activities, weakening organisations - for example, by blocking resources - through a strong prevention activity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have the floor to answer the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano, jointly for ten minutes, which is not easy given the complexity of the subject under consideration and the variety of questions asked.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u31	Madam President, I would like to thank the senators for the questions that I will try to give an overall order to them, partly because the various questions asked are linked to each other. The first consideration that I feel should be made in this House is that our historic moment gives us a security environment that excludes zero risk. So, if the objective is to zero the risk, I think we are out of the context of this time. We can rejoice and be proud of the results achieved so far, but we cannot deny that there is a risk. Therefore, all our activity is aimed at a single objective: to compress the risk factor. We work to reduce the risk, in the knowledge that large Western democracies, non-western democracies and non-democratic democracies, have been affected all over the world. The second point, which I think is very important, concerns the issue of prevention. We have achieved important results in the field of prevention. But prevention represents something, in fact, I would say the most tiring and gray thing that exists in the safety system. Why? If the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport intervenes here, he will inform you that he has opened a bridge, that he will finish a work or cut a ribbon. If we have to work on prevention, we have to tell the truth, namely that prevention has as its objective not to make something verify: not to achieve something, but - I repeat - not to make something verify. So the goal we propose every day is that nothing should happen. The minute and the day when nothing happened - fortunately this has always happened in Italy - no one can say that it was the merit of our work, because there is no mathematical, scientific, logical and causal link that can show that everything we have done is the essential root and the only reason why nothing happened. What did we do? From January 1, 2015 to today - today understood in the literal sense - we have checked 160.593 suspicious people, 346 ships and more than 34.371 vehicles, selected through a scrupulous activity of observation and, therefore, not drawn at random. We have arrested 549 people and carried out 2,859 searches on subjects deemed contiguous to religious extremism. We have investigated in state of freedom 884 people and carried out 102 expulsions of subjects highlighted by the degree of radicalization or ideological support to jihad and 8 of these measures concerned imam. On this subject I will return shortly, after having said - I refused to say so this morning in a press conference just to be able to communicate it to the Senate about this Assembly - that exactly yesterday was repatriated, having been expelled for reasons of national security, a 25-year-old Moroccan, Kachmat Najib, investigated for having thrown on the ground, on July 12th, damaging a wooden crucifix inside the Church of St. Jeremiah, in the historic center of Venice. Following the events, this Moroccan had been admitted to the psychiatrist department of the nosocomio of Venice and repatriated to the border, to the airport Marco Polo Tessera of Venice, with a flight at 20,55 to Casablanca, in execution of my measure. Another Moroccan citizen, Briji Salah, of sixty-nine years old, was expelled, arrested on January 1, 2015 for the crime of damage aggravated for breaking into the church of Cles, screaming against the faithful and screaming expressions of aversion to the Catholic religion. His profile of danger was confirmed by evidence of intelligence that indicated him as included in the Trentino Islamic community and attested to clearly radical positions. The Arm of the Carabinieri had already proposed it for the issue of the expulsion order by the Minister of the Interior for reasons of State security and, then, was expelled for security measures by the judicial authority with a measure last year. Afterwards, the expulsion was carried out. This is to say that our prevention activity has achieved these results. Senator Pagliari was talking about religious fundamentalism. We, as a government, are keeping a line - and I also say this to other colleagues, such as Senators Mazzoni and Malan who have posed the specific problem of religious fundamentalism, prevention and relationship with Italian Muslims - that we believe is right and useful: that is, always separating those who pray from those who shoot. One thing is prayer, one thing is murder in the name of a god who did not authorize that prayer. Our job is to make this separation effective. Eight imams have been expelled. We recognize, in fact, the right to prayer. Our Constitution recognizes this, but this is a natural right that comes before our Constitution. But if you chant to violence, if you preach, maybe even anti-Semitic, as often happened, you go out, because that is not preaching but a chanting to violence incompatible with the values of our Constitution and our laws. In eight cases it occurred that we expelled imam. Another thing is the reasoning about mosques. We are starting yet another job, which is the establishment of a council for relations with Islam, where most of the men of Italian culture and intellectuals who have studied the Arab world and Islam in Italy sit, and at the same time we have met the leaders of Muslim communities in Italy. After this council for relations with Islam made us a proposal, we had them meet, under my presidency, at the Viminale. The hypothesis of the realization of an Italian model of Islam came out which, of course, does not mean entering into the doctrine of faith, but means saying enough to the imams of you; stop the imams who arrive in Italy having had a radical formation, and preaching in Italian. And now we are working on something that is shared by Muslim communities, in order to track more and more mosque funding. And I am going to describe the usefulness of all this, saying that it is certainly not convenient to show to a million and six hundred thousand Muslims that they are rejected by the national community. Making them feel outside the national community feeds that climate of hatred that is then humus for violent acts. We are, in fact, pursuing a strategy that activates all the levers, because there is not a single lever that can deal with this issue. There is the military response, of which the international community is concerned. We are part of that coalition that has been fighting terrorism since 2001. There is the response of prevention and intelligence. There is the legislative answer. And there is also the cultural answer, about which I have spoken now. From a regulatory point of view, some of my colleagues have specifically pointed out the issue of standards. Before moving on to this subject, however, I say to Senator Malan that it is true that there have been reports of the faithful. And we welcome the reports of the faithful that allow us to proceed with the arrests. But it's equally obvious that if I tell you that we do intercepts, arrests and searches, it's okay that we don't arrest suspicious individuals just because sometimes some believers report to us. So our counter-terrorist intelligence and police intelligence is definitely at work. Let me turn to the other subject. You here in Parliament in 2015 approved a decree that is working, the one to which Senator Mazzoni referred. I am referring to the fact that foreign fighters were not a criminal case before, and now they are. And I say it's working because the magistrates have already applied the rules. Otherwise, it would not have worked, and it would have meant that the magistrates did not need those rules. At the same time, that the prevention rules are similar to those for the mobsters means telling the suspects that they have to come home at that time, that they can't leave home before that time, that they have to sign at the police station or police station twice a day. We're keeping them under control because they're suspects. If they were more than suspects, they would either be arrested or expelled for national security reasons. It seems pretty obvious to me. We have done a very effective job from this point of view too. Senator Mancuso was talking about the lone wolves issue. The point is one. "Charlie Hebdo", January 2015: Sensitive target, and it was a garrisoned place. In front of its headquarters were the cars of the French security forces, as it was a sensitive target. Bataclan and the Saint Denis stadium, that is the second attack in Paris in 2015: soft target, not a sensitive objective, but the aggression to the places of our daily life. Change the profile completely. In Brussels, the metro hit exactly as it had happened in Madrid and London. There's a continuous change in the game pattern. And I could quote Sousse beach in Tunisia. Our prevention work leads us to practice on all tracks and not to exclude any of them. It is the reason why we have done numerous counter-terrorism exercises in complex contexts and situations. We did so in function of the Jubilee, the Expo and other events. In being absolutely occupied with and on this matter, we must not underestimate the fact that we are a great country in which so far prevention has worked and within which we have at this moment in progress the Jubilee; we hosted a month ago the Champions Final and ended last year the Expo. There was another event at the Forum the day before yesterday of great importance. We are therefore also holding to the pressure of international events that we have so far protected from the point of view of safety with excellent results. I go to another area on which the colleagues of the League and the 5 Star Movement spoke and, in part, also the colleague of the Conservatives and Reformists. I'm referring to the police force. Not everyone here is in the first legislature. I appeal to those in the previous year, but even these three years have not passed without your memory having forgotten what I am about to say. In our country there has been a shifter block that - as is often the case with anglicisms - is a mechanism not to say exactly how things are. In the police forces, they retired and did not replace pensioners. Ever since we've been with this government, we've slowly passed the turnover, finally erasing the blockade. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] My colleague, you're a legislator, and the things I'm about to say are part of the laws published in the Official Journal. We eliminated the turnover block and in 2016, for the first time in so many years, a number exactly equal to the number of retired people will be summarized. The investments, which had been cut, have grown, both for the so-called intermediate consumption (petrol and all that it serves for the daily supplyings of the Forces of the order) and for the structural investments. In the last law of stability - which is also published in the Official Journal - we have foreseen a billion on security and defence. Investment has grown; recruitment has increased and turnover has been cut off. And the moral of the fairy tale is that the crimes have decreased. Is it Wonderland? Of course not, but just look at what happens to the U.S. police forces and other police forces to say that ours are of excellence. And I take this opportunity to thank them. Did we make confetti with that money? No: EUR 300 million went to the police force for EUR 80 million; EUR 150 million - soon the Council of Ministers will decide its destination - go to cybersecurity, because we focus on the physical and technological garrison of sensitive and non-sensitive places, and EUR 50 million for the technological equipment and equipment of the law enforcement forces. I am going to the conclusions by addressing two more substantive issues. Mr Mazzoni spoke of the Albanian track. We, of course, as far as radicalization is concerned, follow all the leads. We do not miss - it is the reason why we have worked a lot in that area - that that is the old route of smugglers and there is the risk that it is the route of the new foreign fighters. Our attention is highest from this point of view. With regard to the issues relating to the databases and what I was asked about them by my colleague, we are of the view that the new security vision provides for the exact opposite of the old vision, which consisted in the acquisition of confidential information, protection and jealous defence of information. The new security vision is first of all trust and then pouring information into the database system (first of all European) and ensuring that this is done by all countries. Apparently you get rid of one information; in essence, you pour it into a container where you will find the information of others and, therefore, we will all be safer. This is a reason why, even from the security point of view, Europe's divisive approaches do not make our country safer and more defensible, but make it weaker and more alone. From a regulatory point of view, we have legislation that is at the forefront of Europe and the world, because it comes from the UN directives, the European directives and the use of a number of rules, called "personal prevention measures," which are typical of our legal system, which has experienced organised crime. So, even if from the regulatory point of view everything is perfectible, ours is a very effective legislative asset. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u32	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u35	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr Minister, I am pleased, especially in relation to the fact that you have given a realistic picture and your analysis has been very dry and appropriate to the difficulty of the problem, without emphasis. This gives us the guarantee that the action will be continued in a serious and conscious way of the difficulties, looking for solutions and not commercials.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u38	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Minister, the fact that I belong to an opposition force does not prevent me from expressing appreciation for what you have expressed in your reply and, through you, gratitude to all men and women who every day in our streets, in all ways, in all structures, in the complex activities they carry out to prevent terrorism, are employed to defend us citizens. I certainly invite you to continue to do so, keeping your attention very high and knowing that in all this there is great solidarity, on the part of all Italians, with those who have such a heavy and important task.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u41	SANTANGELO (M5S). Minister, we are not satisfied at all, because today we were not talking about an issue at will. I have asked you specific questions, which are in the documents, to which I would ask you to reply, even after that. Just a few small clarifications: the Forces of Order are in dire condition. You spoke of special bodies, but remember that the police and not the special forces intervened in Nice. He spoke of funding: EUR 245 million was allocated in the Stability Act for internal security. Well, 112 million of them have been moved to international missions. The government is allocating 800 million euros in armaments just these days. So, the 150 million you say you put on cyber security is very little stuff. This attitude is not acceptable at all. You show once again that you are unable to play the role of Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u44	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, we are absolutely satisfied with your answers. They convince us of the measures that your Ministry has taken and intends to take to stem the phenomena in question. We agree that it is difficult to combat attacks of this kind, often absolutely unpredictable, which confirm how much you rightly love to repeat and of which each of us has become aware, namely that the zero risk unfortunately does not exist. It is clear that, with regard to the attacks of lone wolves, it is essential to counter potential sources of inspiration from the network, mosques and emulation effects. However, I believe that the only important antidote is prevention and I understand that in this area, dear Minister, Italy is second to none.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u47	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Minister, we are not satisfied at all, because you have not answered our questions. Therefore, we note that integration and coexistence between multiple cultures are not a priority of this Government to prevent terrorism. Surely guaranteeing the right to freedom to profess one's religion is important, but that cannot be enough. We believe that we cannot act simply in a secure logic, but we must be able to integrate the interventions: that of the Forces of Order and Intelligence and that of politics and legislative intervention to ensure equality. This is certainly the way for us to prevent radicalism and hatred, and above all to ensure the safety of citizens starting from that of the Forces of Order.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u50	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, thank you. I agree with the first things he said, namely that we are at a stage where there is no zero risk, so at this time, whether we like it or not, we must accept the fact that we are most likely not going to be able to guarantee the safety of all the national territory, of all the sites and of all the stations: it is almost impossible. It is precisely for this reason that we need to actively engage in prevention operations, such as data collection and identification, using biometric data, which we have been talking about in NATO for years. I would also point out that it is today a statement by Minister Pinotti that he has spoken of temporarily assigning the status of public security officers to our special forces and that exercises have also been carried out at Malpensa airport and Termini station. Personally, I have allowed myself to present some amending proposals of the framework law on the specific question that I hope the Government can integrate and make its own, so that even our military forces, abroad and in Italy, when carrying out these operations can collect biometric data.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u53	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). I too thank you, Minister, for the answer I think is timely. You have rightly said that it is necessary to separate those who pray from those who shoot. However, we must be aware that there is also a grey and hybrid zone, emerging from the misunderstanding of the "islamically correct" that Islamic terrorists are enemies of Islam. They are a crazy rib of Islam, but they are also, unfortunately, Islam. And I see too much in the Islamic world, too much ambiguity, too many grey areas on which we must work not only from the point of view of intelligence and prevention, but also from the cultural point of view. If we win this cultural challenge, we will lay the foundations for winning the battle against ISIS.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u56	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr Minister, the emphasis with which you gave this first answer does not reassure us; on the contrary, too often, when you put great emphasis in the declarations, as you did, there is also an operational vacuum that worries us. The thing that gives us reassurance is the professionalism of our forces of order: there are extraordinary men on the streets, unfortunately often and willingly - as we know - left to make choices and to take decisions relying only on their own judgment to face the risks of the fight of terrorism. We want certainties, Minister, and the certainty lies in the numbers, but not in the ones you have given us: the certainty for our citizens lies in knowing that the staff of the Forces of Order are full, that the competitions are done, that agents of the Forces of Order are hired and above all that there is an intelligence work that prevents the entry into the country of terrorists, because this is what happened with the bomber of Nice and this must not happen in a country that protects its citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u59	Mr Bruni (CoR). Minister, I take note of the data you have mentioned, which have their objectivity, but in itself do not serve to eliminate the state of anxiety and to bring back the serenity that everyone wants, also and especially in relation to the objectives of everyday life, those we have defined as soft targets. In this sense I would invite, while recognizing the great professionalism of the police forces, to raise further the level of attention on the places of internal mobility, because one of the aspects that are emerging in Italy in recent months is the need to feel reassured when travelling. I am referring to stations, airports and ports in particular, with reference to Albania's example, to the ports of Puglia, which have been observed in this sense: in these places we must give the citizens the perception of a greater presence of the State.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u60	Let us now turn to questions about the national system for the reception of migrants, which will be answered by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u63	Mr Warra (PD). Minister, I would like to talk about unaccompanied foreign minors and the provision of hospitality for unaccompanied minors outlined in Legislative Decree No. 142 of 2015. This decree provides, as we remember, for a first temporary reception in dedicated governmental structures and a second level reception within the structures of the protection system for asylum seekers and refugees (SPRAR). In the case of temporary incapience of these structures, the reception is ensured by the municipality where the minors are located. I would like to ask you, Minister, how is the provision in Article 1-b of the local government decree-law which provides, in the case of large and close arrivals of unaccompanied foreign minors, the activation, entrusted to the discretion of the prefects, of temporary accommodation facilities with a maximum of 50 places. In particular, I would like to know how these structures are linked with those of first reception already planned and what is planned to do to avoid risks, in particular that the new emergency structures become permanent, because there is no provision for maximum permanence within them. In fact, if we do not proceed, as I imagine instead we are doing because it is foreseen by the Plan for 2016, to adapt promptly and to strengthen the ordinary system of reception, how is it avoided that this becomes a parallel track of reception and that an excessive territorial concentration of unaccompanied foreign minors is determined? Secondly, according to the latest data from the Ministry of Labour, against 12,241 unaccompanied foreign minors present and recorded, there are 5,222 of them unavailable. I would ask whether you can give me information about what is being done or what is being done to deal with this phenomenon, which exposes children to the known risks of becoming victims of trafficking or of criminal organizations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u66	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, the management of refugees or immigrants, as the case may be, has been clearly the subject of a series of incidents, many of which are collected in the book "Profugopolis" by Mario Giordano, where some disturbing aspects are mentioned. These are not only cases of serious failure on the part of those who are called upon to manage and welcome these people, but also of the fact that, after such incidents have occurred, they are again entrusted to the same subjects, many other immigrants or refugees. We know of many cases of people crammed in environments of inadequate size, of people who are not at all assisted when instead cooperatives are paid to assist them, of cases in which even whole properties are filled with these people and then sold to subjects related to the cooperative that manages these centers. I mean, is there real attention before the assignment? How is it possible for new assignments to be made to persons who have already been clearly identified and subject, even in the final analysis, to measures? In this area, I also want to raise the attention on unaccompanied foreign minors: unfortunately, in the absence of specific legislation, they are entrusted to the existing general regulations for this sector, for children out of the family, regulations absolutely insufficient and applied in a worrying way also for Italian minors. The fact that the traces of 5,000 foreign minors have been lost is extremely worrying and there does not appear to be any measures to counter and not even to explain this phenomenon. I would like to have an answer on these issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u69	MORRA (M5S). Minister, has the Government seriously assessed the risks associated with internal and international crime, internal and international terrorism of a fundamentalist nature, as well as, above all, the destabilising potential of the migratory phenomenon that affects the country all, especially in relation to the financial means actually allocated? You know, the government, you know, Minister, that we are at war, as the Pontiff said just yesterday? Do you know that immigration can be, when unregulated, ungoverned, not transformed from mere physical reception into true cultural and social integration, a potential weapon for terrorist organisations? The European Commission, with specific reference to the Italian management of migrants, has recently reiterated that the number of transfers and commitments remains particularly low when compared with the increasing influx of migrants, pointing out the inadequacy of the bodies responsible for the reception, identification and possible relocation of immigrants in certain and acceptable times, as described also in the Commission's latest report and that we are protagonists of a slowing down of procedures that can be disastrous in view of a predictable increase in arrivals in Italy. Therefore, what the Government intends to do in order to: make the process of acceptance and recognition of asylum seekers swift and effective; involve the other States of the Union for effective synergy in achieving the objectives set by the European Commission; to prepare, with the support of the European Agency for Migration, the identification procedures, possible relocations and returns of asylum seekers with certain timetables, as well as rapid, and monthly and public roadmaps; to propose the creation of specific control bodies for the commitment of funds allocated to third countries, combining them with local development plans, including in relation to the processes of democratization of the countries of transit and departure, respect for human rights and respect for international conventions; to equip the public security forces, to which we must often recognise a commitment and sensitivity greater than established by the simple observance of the employment contract, the necessary resources, personnel and instrumental resources, in order to deal with the immense migratory tragedy affecting the continent and, in particular, our country, perhaps by diverting financial means that represent attractive to improvised operators to whom the necessary, the necessary resources, the necessary and the necessary tools, to deal with, which the crisis, which the crisis, which the crisis, which is subsequently, the management of the Cen, or even worse, have been entrusted by the Cen-filled by the Cen-filled by the crisis of the crisis, which the Cenquilames, or even if they have been given by the same.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u72	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, 2016 will probably be remembered as the record year for the number of migrants crossing the Mediterranean and landing on our coasts. As we know, in addition to a very sensitive problem of assistance (at least on our political side), there is a need for the distribution of these migrants, even in accordance with a European agreement which provides for the pro-quota task by Member States. In order to achieve this goal it is necessary that the first link of a chain, which is that of hotspots and, in order for the system that has been designed and designed to function, one cannot ignore their proper functioning. Therefore, to better organise the hotspot system is an essential condition for rapid identification with the system of photos and fingerprints and for subsequent sorting to European member countries or for repatriation, if there are conditions, which we know are governed by international conventions. I would therefore ask you, Minister, what is the point of the situation, precisely in relation to the need to set up hotspots, which seem to be valid structures in the approach to the procedures for interception and identification of migrants, but which are struggling to function in the way they want and which could perform a different function than they wanted and for which they were conceived.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u75	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Minister, the reception system in our country is particularly fragmented: on the one hand, we have the protection system for asylum seekers and refugees, managed in collaboration with the municipalities and ANCI, which gathers about 27,000 places, on the other, the extraordinary reception centre managed by the prefects, which covers about 100,000 places, and finally the government centres, the hotspots, in practice the former reception centres for asylum seekers, which cover about 10,000 places. Although in fractional form, this system is still under the Ministry of the Interior. Unfortunately, we must note that the experiences of the extraordinary reception centers often present many difficulties due to the choices made by the individual prefects that, mostly, concern the reception in large centres difficult to integrate in the social and territorial tissues, and that indeed risk to increase feelings of widespread racism within which more easily lurk corrupt phenomena in the management of the centers themselves. In light of this, we ask the Minister if and when this Government intends to proceed to create a uniform reception system with the establishment of a single database with levels and methods of unitary reception throughout the territory based on the most positive experience of the Protection System for asylum seekers and refugees (SPRAR). We ask whether, while waiting for this increasingly necessary intervention, it does not intend to proceed, for those situations which have characteristics similar to the reception of the SPRAR system, to a rewarding route for the allocation of these centres to the direct management of the municipal administrations. Finally, we would like to know how the prefectures, possible violations of rights and bad management of government centres can be assessed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u78	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Minister, I would like to point out that Italy is doing its duty by saving thousands of lives at sea and has also complied with the European input for identification (we are well over 90%). The short circuit that occurs in the reception of migrants is all European, in the sense that the relocation is not working, the figures are laughable (789 out of 40,000, since the European directive was issued), with an increasing number of asylum seekers who would like to consider Italy a country of transit and who are then forced to stay here, so we have the clogging of the SPRAR system and the CAS with the distortions that Senator Malan has reported. There are two questions, Minister. Currently there are four first reception centres where the hotspot procedure is applied, but there are reports of identifications carried out according to the hotspot approach in other places: either directly on the beaches or in the city squares. I ask you: are procedures followed literally in these cases or are they improvised? The second question is more important: the Italian Government has fought to overcome the logic of the first port provided by the Dublin III Regulation, which penalizes almost exclusively Italy after the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, with the closure of the Balkan route. I ask you: how do you feel about the reform proposal presented by the European Commission on 4 May last to revise the Dublin Regulation? Is this a step forward for Italy? She once said: "The wall of Dublin is falling"; my impression is that it has fallen in part, but that it is being rebuilt with the same bricks.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u81	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Minister, last year tens of thousands of people were evaluated by the identification and expulsion centres. The thing that scares us, however, is that, based on the checks carried out to assess the real right to remain in our country of those who declare themselves refugee on July 22, 2016 only in 5 percent of cases was recognized the right to remain as refugee from war zones. 13% have been granted subsidiary protection status, 18% have been granted humanitarian protection, but more than 60% have been denied the right to remain, because they do not have it: they are simply economic migrants. The matter is very simple, Minister. Its Government continues to place on the shoulders of Italians the daily maintenance costs, which in Italy now exceed amply 3 billion euros, of subjects found in this country as illegal, without any right to remain there as they come from war zones. So I ask you: why does your government, instead of spending this money on putting unemployed illegal immigrants in the hotel, not simply increase the capacity for recognition and speed up procedures, to give answers within a few weeks? If you're entitled, stay, or leave. There are motions approved to the Senate and the House in this direction, yet the Government does nothing, as if there was an interest underneath to maintain the mechanism of management of illegal immigrants on our territory. I conclude, Minister, with one last question: why, in the face of expulsions that are not then carried out, do not also set up specialised sections within the courts to quickly give the second evaluation and decide, if the subject has not straight, to send it to his country?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u84	LIUZZI (CoR). Minister, we all know that the reception machine in Italy is an alarming scenario, made up of chiaroscuri, in which self-denial emerges, as well as the use of numerous means and public and private structures, as well as the employment of many men and women in uniform - to which our deferent thinking goes - as well as of thousands of volunteers with extraordinary sensitivity. We are waiting for an amendment to the Dublin Rules of Procedure, which may not come or will not happen in the short term; in the meantime, the opening of hotspots, as well as the census through fingerprints, which should have streamlined the reception procedures, are slow. In a world in which Mafia Capital has played such an important role, evidently if the reception centers have not appeared transparent, or have never been controlled in these years or there has been no interest in making them work well. Moreover, the whole system of identification and expulsion of migrants is suffering the impact of the agreement between Turkey and the European Union, which, with the closure of the Western Balkans route, has caused the movement of flows to North Africa and therefore to Italy. How does the government think it will start to manage, instead of suffering, these disturbing scenarios, in compliance with the protection of fundamental human rights, to be understood not only those of migrants - on which it is not discussed - but also of Italian citizens, especially those in the most affected municipalities, such as Lampedusa, Pozzallo, Augusta, but also on the southern coasts of Apulia, citizens suffering the consequences of the continuous emergency? Moreover, since the Council of the European Union has finally approved the draft of the new European Border and Coast Guard, which brings together the Community border agency Frontex and the national border management authorities, but which will not actually have the power to send forces to a Member State without an operational plan, what is the position of the Government at European level on this choice, which entails the risk that the new body will be deprived of the necessary power to affect emergency situations? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano, to whom I recommend that the ten minutes be respected in order to allow all replies to be sent.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u85	To answer all the questions I have to put myself in tweet mode. I try, and I hope to be exhaustive. Since Senator Petraglia was right just now, in the sense that I only partially answered her first question, I would like to begin directly with her, completing what was said earlier. When I spoke of a relationship with Islam in Italy I also wanted to say exactly the need for policies that were integration as useful to the prevention of radicalization. Therefore, integration is also needed from the point of view of security: more integration means less radicalisation and less risk of attacks. Provocing instead means inducing hatred of the national community is not in the style or political line of this Government. Senator Petraglia said the reception system is fragmented. Why? Because there are various levels: there is a first reception and then there is the wider reception, which derives from the circumstance of having to assist during their stay those who arrive on the national territory with a status of humanitarian protection. The issue of prefecture control is very important: we make sample inspection visits; we have homogeneous notices from the prefectures; the centers are inspected and monitored from the point of view of the standards of reception also in partnership with international, multilateral and humanitarian organisations, such as the International Organization of Migrants, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (CNUR), which have full access to all the structures of our country. I want to be very clear and clear. We have a line, which is the Italian line and the European line: do you run away from a war or persecution? We welcome you. You don't run away from a war and you're an economic migrant? Unfortunately, we cannot accept you and we must start the return procedures. When it comes to economic migrants, there is no talk of terrorists. At least we haven't had this proof so far. If you have an opportunity to go to Ellis Island in New York, you will see the 4 million people who did not run away from a war in Italy, but were economic migrants and went to America. They are economic migrants our boys who go to make pizza makers in London and are called immigrants in other countries. The point on which we must understand is that our Government wants to repatriate economic migrants, but not because we are bad, because we cannot welcome everyone: it is the very clear point that Senator Mazzoni emphasized. We have facilities where we take the fingerprints and we do the sorting. These structures are called hotspots. From the hotspot, the refugee is identified. I am talking about refugees meaning them in the technical sense and I respond to Senator Candiani: the leader of his party often says that 2 or 3 percent are refugees. The substance of the truth is that, in 2015, those who benefited from humanitarian, subsidiary or refugee status, that is, one of the three or four legal categories that our legal system knows to protect people, were about 40% and those to which our Commissions gave the denial are about 60%. The reports were reversed, because in 2014 the relationship was absolutely reversed. What do I mean? That at European level we are told that the right of asylum and international humanitarian law require the reception of refugees and the return of irregulars. To repatriate irregulars, a plane must leave and someone, in the country where they are to be repatriated, land it and take it. If there are no international bilateral agreements, returns do not work and, therefore, people must be kept here. Where do we have to keep them? That is the point where Europe risks collapsing, because if the centres where these migrants must be detained in view of repatriation must be closed centres and, year after year, tens of thousands of migrants who are irregular in their presence on national territory are added, it is difficult to imagine closed centres that, for years and years, they must retain these people if the return mechanism does not work. This is the possible point of collapse of the European strategy. We are fighting, but I want to be very clear: if you ask the government to fight in Europe to charge the costs of border surveillance, that's fine; if you ask us, as a government, to fight in Europe to guard that border with European ships, that's fine; if you ask us to fight for the relocation of refugees and for this to work, that's fine. But if you ask us to kill someone at sea, this is not the kind of choice that Italian democracy can support. We save everyone and, after that, we ask effectively whether they are refugees or irregular migrants. If they are irregular migrants, we put them in the return loop, if they are refugees, not because we must welcome them. What do I mean by this reception mechanism? We have a system which, of course, spends resources on reception. As history shows, thieves are present in Lombard health (as well as in all the others; I think, for example, the Sicilian public administrations) and in all areas where there is investment. Thieves are like mice and cheese: where there is cheese, that is money, mice try to go inside. We do monitoring and we have a relationship with the National Anti-corruption Authority. We also have a very serious relationship with the Italian judiciary and the prefectures do checks and checks. We work to prevent thieves. As for the weaknesses that have become strengths, in October 2013 there was a massacre in which 300 people died. The following year, due to Libya's instability, 170,000 people arrived in Italy. The system was not equipped and had two weaknesses. Regarding the first, the photosigning did not work because there was no pre-organized structure, as 2014 arrived two and a half months after the massacre of Lampedusa, which took place in early October 2013. The second point is that we had about 20 committees to request asylum. What did we do right away? We've upgraded the photosigning system to about 100 percent. And we have - indeed, you have, because we have proposed it, but they are all measures passed by Parliament - more than doubled the asylum committees, which have gone from 20 to 50. And instead of doing as in a mature examination, with all the commissioners examining only one migrant, we have simplified procedures with one-to-one examinations. This has led to an extraordinary acceleration of the work of the asylum committees, which has resulted in the fact that, by now, what was considered a weak point has become a strong point. I would ask Senator Morra to send me the document from Europe that he has shown in this Chamber, to know who it is. I think that Europe should only congratulate us and thank us for the work we have done, and it does not have much to censor. The other issue about Europe is that we were the European emergency. But if we are to be honest intellectually, as the drama we are facing is asking us, we are no longer the emergency of Europe. Faced with Germany, which last year welcomed over 1,300,000 people crossing its border, we are at last year's level. And we are neither the first, nor the second, nor the third European country, all the more so given by the population. Then I tell Senator Liuzzi that we have not seen the enormous movement of flows from the Balkan route. And we are glad that this did not happen and that there was that agreement, precisely because of the topic of the Balkan route that is of foreign fighters. We, uncomfortable with Puglia and with the curse of Puglia, could have had a move which, however, did not happen, also thanks to the agreement with Turkey. Starting with the conclusion, I respond to Senator Guerra, who was also the first to intervene. I also thank, of course, the other senators who have asked me questions, such as Senators Mancuso and Liuzzi, whom I have already mentioned. And I answer Senator Malan by absorbing his question in the answer to the prefecture checks. Senator Malan, we have prefecture controls, judicial control, and also anti-corruption agency control partnerships. If there are specific and further points beyond those mentioned in the book, signal them. It is clear that transparency procedures are worthy of our prefectures. We have an efficient control system. Then, the reasoning I made earlier, of the mouse and the cheese, belongs to all the investments that have been made in our country. We still pay the procurement accounts that were there fifteen years ago, with corruption trials. I respond to Senator Guerra on the very delicate subject of unaccompanied minors. Unaccompanied minors weary our municipalities a lot, especially with regard to the Sicilian ones. The drama, in fact, is in the Sicilian Municipalities, and it is useless to make national reasoning on this subject. Fair distribution worked, but it does not apply to unaccompanied minors. Sicily and Reggio Calabria are the places in great suffering. The article that the senator correctly cited in relation to the decree local authorities serves to relieve the municipalities. Before a landing, we don't get a phone call to warn that ten thousand seats have been booked for the weekend. You also talk to the president of ANCI Sicilia or the mayors of the Sicilian Municipalities: if ten thousand refugees arrive and there are many unaccompanied minors, the Municipalities are not able to face the emergency. We have therefore provided the outlet valve of 50 seats in emergency - you are certainly right that they cannot risk becoming permanent - precisely to allow them, through prefectures, not to take all unaccompanied minors. Without prejudice to the fact that we must also be very honest about it: one account is the child of four, seven or ten years old, who is minor unaccompanied; another account is a boy, six feet tall and who claims to be seventeen years old, but who does not give the impression of being weak and helpless. So, we have a series of problems that are real and others that are real for the legal qualification that recognizes the age of 18 in Italy but that, from the point of view of the sustainability of the impact of the arrival in Italy after that trip, have worried us less, for the reasons that I have just illustrated. The network of the protection system for asylum seekers and refugees (SPRAR) can provide us with widespread assistance. In this regard, out of all hypocrisy, if the Municipalities help, it works; if they do not, it does not work. We are working with the ANCI to achieve the fair distribution on a regional scale. In order to reduce the fair distribution from the regional scale to the local one (8,000 municipalities), we need the help of local institutions. If with the ANCI the agreement will work, counting on 8,000 municipalities, our reception system will not struggle to make every community hold a sustainable weight, if the migrants are distributed equally. If in a region we send the right number of migrants, but within it many municipalities do not cooperate, they determine dysfunctions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u88	Mr Warra (PD). Minister, thank you for your last remark, which I fully agree with. I have also dealt with this issue in my previous experiences with the Government. I think the issue of fair distribution with regard to unaccompanied foreign minors is crucial, because we have so many minors to settle as many municipalities there are in Italy. With one per person, we could solve the problem. It seems absolutely correct and important to me the notation you have made, as well as the sensitivity you have shown to the fact that the solution you are looking for is considered to be a relief and not a regime.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u91	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Minister, I believe that the directives are certainly those for which there are controls, but then we have outstanding cases. I quote the Ferrara Camelot that has won all the contracts. Initiatives have been taken by the Public Prosecutor, the Court of Auditors and the National Authority against corruption and then further refugees are still assigned to it, sometimes even from the prefecture, perhaps through subcontracting. Something's wrong with these cases. And I fear, unfortunately, that this is not strange, since the issue of minors out of the Italian family, who do not arrive with a sudden influx and difficult to manage, counts episodes of this kind. Just mention the case of the Forteto, where people convicted of rape and sexual violence on minors are being entrusted with other minors. It is precisely for this reason that there should be a very serious impact on this sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u94	MORRA (M5S). Minister, I would like to remind you - for example - that so many asylum seekers have been brought into Germany, but it was the Germans who chose them, who wanted the Syrians. I very much appreciate what you said about the fact that a democracy like Italian democracy cannot accept the death of asylum seekers at sea for economic reasons. But I would also like to point out that if we had spent half of half of what was spent at European level to save banks in international cooperation and prevention measures, we might have a different situation. I do not want to mention the Forteto, but there is not only Sicily as far as unaccompanied minors are concerned, but there is also Calabria. I want to remind you that many people have also written about organ trafficking... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u97	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, thank you for the answer and for the effort that the Government is making to make the reception system optimal, which is difficult to manage especially with regard to hotspots that would have only the task of identifying and sorting migrants. Unfortunately, because of weaknesses in the system that depend not only on us, but also on other countries, there are difficulties in making this work to the best of our ability. Despite this, I appreciate the effort that the Government is making especially in the southern cities with the involvement of the ANCI. And I believe that everything that is being achieved is moving towards an improvement in the reception system. As Italians we can be truly proud of what the Government is doing for refugees. [[Applause from Senators Gualdani and Rossi Luciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u100	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Minister, thank you for your reply this time. I would like to make a few comments. In Italy there is a law on immigration called Bossi-Fini, which for us is a real racial law in a modern way. If we do not change that, our reception system will remain varied among all the variety we have talked about, from the CIEs, to the extraordinary reception centres, to the centres for asylum seekers. The only system that has worked so far - as you told us - is SPRAR. I who come from Tuscany have direct experience of what has meant the welcome spread in all the municipalities, in the small territories, with small numbers, involving not only the institutions, but above all the citizens. This, of course, is a concrete way of promoting integration and that incredible reception work that is still to be done.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u103	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr Minister, I would like to insist on the Dublin Rules of Procedure. I understand that it concerns only part of your Ministry, but the reform proposed by the Commission retains substantially the same hierarchy of Dublin criteria, reproduces the same failings on the temporary relocation mechanisms already in place, without a fairer distribution of responsibilities between Member States. I believe that if Italy does not win the fundamental battle for a fairer distribution of refugees, so going forward, with new future flows, it will risk endangering the same social cohesion of the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u106	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). The non-answer to my questions, Minister, says a lot about the government's willingness to take this matter seriously. I asked you why the committees that have to assess whether or not asylum seekers are entitled are not being increased, and you have not answered me. I asked her why sections are not set up within the courts to define appeals, so that it is immediately defined whether or not one is entitled and, in the second case, sent back to his own home. There is only one solution: they do not come to the national territory, because, when they arrive on the national territory, they become the object of business and business. And on this his government has a great responsibility, because you are downloading the Italians, who no longer have social assistance, and instead you are keeping in the hotel people who are here simply without having the right (60 percent, the statistics say). And do you know, Minister, that the police officers you brought to Rome last year slept in the car for six months, because they didn't even have the apartments to sleep in. This must then be the security that must be given to our citizens... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u109	LIUZZI (CoR). Minister, I am partially satisfied. And the reason is that I acknowledge the responsibility for responding to a complex situation in a complex way, as you have done, Minister. I recognise that, from the point of view of controls (with regard to cheese and mice), it is important that the Ministry has - as I have learned, Minister - a network and, therefore, a guarantee system that puts those centres always in a position to be monitored and controlled. I call on you, of course, to accentuate this type of system, both for security and because the credibility of international aid is at stake here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u110	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-671.ana.u111	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 1 August, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.25 p.m.
