ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.07 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 4 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2081, 14, 197, 239, 314, 909, 1211, 1231, 1316, 1360, 1745, 1763, 2069 and 2084.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me - perhaps my fellow Members do not allow me to do so - to say that I am not intimidated by the fact that some people have intended to address my group's epithet 'Mercenary'. Beyond the unfoundedness of the accusation, proven by the individual stories of each of us, this certain, so attentive to the birth of AL-A and its growth, shows absolute distraction with respect to the political departures of his wife, distraction perhaps justified by the dazzles that provokes the assiduous frequentation of Villa Certosa [[Applause from the AL-A Group]] Colleagues senators, the dogmatic debate on this or that of the specific aspects of the bill to our examination does not fascinate me, as well as - I will forgive the constitutionalists - I find surreal the anticipated exceptions of unconstitutionality of the text. Honestly, I believe that the excessive technicality of the confrontation is actually even counterproductive, for the reasons both of the supporters of the initiative and of those who oppose it. Senator Cirinna, as much as I express appreciation, the stubborn and stubborn search for the formula or neologism that can satisfy all the parts is an intentional and ineffective operation. As legislators we know well that any text of law, beyond the hermeneutic rules of preleggios, lives of its own life and lends itself to the most varied and disparate interpretations, with respect to which what we have told ourselves, perhaps for months or years in this House, represents only a starting point for destinations sometimes very distant and unexpected. Senators, nothing is more distant from me than the Marxist conception of law as mere superstructure. It is undeniable, however, that the right cannot be a technique of coexistence end in itself, but it must necessarily have a relationship with a value, with a good that, among all, one chooses to elevate at a legal level. And it is on this level, that of ethical choices, about what is right to do, that I intend to carry out my reasoning. On Memory Day... [[Brusio in the Chamber. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u5	As you know, I continue to call on the House to reduce the tone of voice and to listen. Please, Senator, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u6	FALANGA (AL-A). On the Day of Memory, the Head of State, President Mattarella, acting on the phenomenon of immigration, kindly criticized the possible supposition of the suspension of the Schengen Treaty and invited all peoples not to raise walls. Well, this exhortation of the Head of State reminded me of a poem by a Greek homosexual poet from the early 20th century, Constantinos Kavafis, who reads as follows: "Without respect without mercy without modesty they raised me up against large walls (...); with so many things to take care of outside! Walls were up, and I didn't notice. (...). Walled out of the world and I didn't notice it. You will notice that the poet, while denouncing those who raised against him large walls, at the same time denounced himself, saying: "I did not notice it." He denounced himself for not having noticed, for accepting supinously that he was walled out of the world. Those walls, Senator Gasparri - I don't know if he is present in the Chamber - in the fascist era strengthened considerably until they considered homosexuals, like gypsies and Jews, an unclean race to exterminate. And the Jews were sent to the concentration camps, as we recalled on Memory Day. It is beautiful that invocation of justice contained in the final sentence of the monologue of "Il Mercante di Venezia" by Shakespeare, which asks: If you hurt us, we don't bleed? The luckiest homosexuals were sent to the border, many to a Sicilian island. Do you remember the beautiful movie played by Loren and Mastroianni, titled "A special day"? I must allow myself, very quietly, to suggest to Senators Gasparri, Giovanardi, Sacconi and to all those who have spoken in this Chamber with the best arguments, the reading of a book, entitled "The city and the island," which tells the story of the confined homosexuals. In it is contained a heartbreaking letter of a mother who writes to the then king of Italy, asking for the release of her son, twenty-year-old, asking him and wondering what crime, what crime his twenty-year-old son had committed for having been removed from his love, from his affections, from his family. The affective bond of the family, that family that we have heard in this House exalted, that same family that many speak of in terms of sacredness, was interrupted. Of course, that mother from the sovereign had no answer and I am telling you right now that I have no respect for those dead who have not, during their lives, been able to respect the lives of others. I'm gonna advance it right now, based on the next requests from the Savoia family. The persecution of the Jews ceased with the affirmation of the democracy of our peoples. The condition of homosexuals, even if it no longer involves restrictions of personal freedom, has been stifled; stifled by a culture that still sees them marginalized, by the culture of the self-doing but is not said to be. You want to join the armed forces of our country? Are you homosexual? What's the matter? No problem, as long as you don't declare it. All this, Senators, transfers the issue today to our examination in a purely human dimension, and it is for this reason - as I have already said - that I do not mean, even though I am a jurist, to abandon myself to the technicality of the text. You see, gentlemen, in nature it happens that men and women have relationships regardless, out of marriage, and conceive a child. This is a natural fact, with respect to which the legislator, who must find legal solutions, has made his choices, such as overcoming that hateful distinction between legitimate children and natural children: even if both were born from an act of love, the one was legitimate and accepted by society, the other was denigrated and, even from the terminological point of view, you will remember the term that he used: bastard, a bastard child because, even if born from a loving relationship between a man and a woman, he had been conceived out of marriage. The legislator intervened with choices, whether shared or not, but intervened. When a loving relationship, sexual attraction or spiritual union between a man and a woman united in marriage ends, it is a human fact. And the legislator, also with regard to it, intervened. You will remember the divorce law that divided our country, crowding the streets of the opposites and those who were in favor. For the truth, I would like to know, for fun, how many of those who participated in the protests of the opposites are now divorced. [[Applause from Senator Puppato]] And this human fact has also led the legislator to find rules. Senators, I do not think I should scandalize anyone if I observe that sentimental, sexual and loving relationships between people of the same sex are also made human. And then, if it is a human fact (and it is in terms of both time and space), we do not understand why until now the legislator has not given it legal solutions, it has not regulated it. Probably the human nature of this fact has been denied - it is the point - and such a denial has been translated into the classification that we have given ourselves: men, women, lesbians, homosexuals; a fake classification that has led us not to consider that, when we deny a human fact - beware - humanity is denied. And this classification has become so deeply rooted in our society that for the two categories, homosexuals and lesbians, as for the bastard son, the regional dialects have gone wild to find the most vulgar and offensive terms to indicate them, which I do not repeat in this House so much is the vulgarity that accompanies them. You all know them and you too, Mr President, so there is no need for me to remember the terms that the individual regional dialects coined to indicate homosexuals and lesbians. This fake classification (men, women, homosexuals and lesbians) has become so entrenched in our society that some poet, out of bizarreness or perhaps poetic delight, has transferred it even into flowers and the vegetable world. In a beautiful poem by Palazzeschi, "The flowers" - it is not proposed in the studio to the young people of our schools, even if Palazzeschi is studied - the spam rose becomes "the whore."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u7	Senator Falanga, please change your language.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u8	FALANGA (AL-A). Excuse me, ma'am. She becomes a prostitute. The carnation becomes the male and the lily becomes the homosexual. This classification is also transferred to the plant world. I believe that the queen of such a denial in our society has been hypocrisy: you are there, but I do not see you. I appreciate the literary profile, Pasolini's superb poetry, but I deny him to live peacefully his declared homosexuality. In these days the squares have crowded, Senator Cirinna, once of supporters of the yes, another of supporters of the no. Well, I believe that they have done nothing else and do nothing but lift up the walls of Kavafis further. That is why I urge Senator Cyrinna and Senator Lo Giudice, on the one hand, and Senators Sacconi and Giovanardi, on the other, to break down these walls and to dialogue, because only in this way will you be able to bring the question back to that human level on which it is necessary to place it. As you can see, Senators, human beings must be given rules, and that is what we in this House are trying to do today. We do a legal regulation operation, of course, but even before recovery: we regain the courage to give dignity to so many men and women in our country, who want to see recognized their feelings, their relationships, their loves, their relationships. The Senate today has the great opportunity to carry out an extraordinary cultural operation: to throw behind the classical and fake classification man-woman, homosexual-lesbian to put the human person before everything and everyone. If we do this, if we culturally understand this passage, we will realize that before the homosexual, the male, the female, the lesbian, there is the person who must be placed at the center of society, at the center of the life of the universe. It is for this reason, Senators, that I did not intend to comment - as others have done - either on the judgment of the European Court of Justice or on the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which has given itself - as we have seen and heard, and perhaps we will still hear - to the most disparate and opposing interpretations. Gentlemen, those judgments are acts, they are products of man and, as such, cannot be perfect; as such, they lend themselves to the most varied and disparate interpretations. I'll tell you more, and I'll finish, President. I am not even more interested in the comparative examination with the legislation of other European countries or overseas. And I was not interested because I believe - I do not know you - that France, Belgium and Holland cannot give to my country, to the Italians, to you senators and - allow me - to me lessons of humanity. [[Applause from the AL-A and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u9	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u10	Madam President, the debate on the draft law on civil unions has taken a bending which is being tried too late to remedy, in a media system that is more attentive to the scoop and bagatelle within each party than to the substance of the problem. Today we are discussing - and I hope to approve - a bill that establishes civil unions for all - men, women, homosexual people, really for all - in front of a right finally egalitarian, late in our country, too late in a country that has made the big leap of civilization with divorce and voluntary termination of pregnancy. And equal opportunities for all are constitutional to the very end, and the debate that has taken place in recent days has in some way diverted the spirit of this measure. I have heard words in this House that make us go back 50 years. Civil unions are certainly a civil alternative to marriage: of course, they are. Each of us can think of it as he pleases. Personally I would have had nothing against the affirmation of marriage even for homosexual couples, but I understand that there are constitutional constraints. All right, let's go with civil unions. And here the first objection has been made: if we affirm civil unions, no one will marry again. But this is already the case: the number of marriages has dropped dramatically in our country and, perhaps, some questions should be asked. But apart from that, people are free not to marry for the most different reasons: they do not want to marry because they have a failure behind them and do not want to repeat the experience of marriage; they do not want to marry because they prefer to live together; they do not want to marry because their lives are simpler by staying in civil union and not in a marriage. In short, the world is varied and no law can ever impose the authenticity of a bond. The law cannot and must not enter into the private choices, bedrooms and freedom of each individual. We are not making a concession to diversity with this bill. I wish it were clear. We only take note that the world has changed. So, we also have a law that's a little more backward than Italian society is, but that's not okay either. It is typically Italian to think that the laws should be based mainly on prohibitions and the important thing is not what we are saying, but what we absolutely must ban. I believe, however, that the theme is respect for the dignity of people. There's not one kind of family. I don't know if you noticed going around your cities and in your everyday life. There is not a single type of family: there are many and different families. The Charter of Fundamental Values of the PD, which for me remains a bond of adherence to my party, clearly speaks of different conditions of families. There are families made up of more people now, they are larger families and then, in their area, the rights as they are? How do we measure them? Are there families made up of affection bonds between people of the same sex without sex, because there are links - for example - between elderly people of mutual assistance and that is not a family? Sure, that's a family, too. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let us be careful to say that the family identifies itself with marriage and the generation of children. The sterile couples? A man and a woman who got married and couldn't have children are united in B marriages? Do they have B rights? Be careful to say that a child needs a father and a mother. Single parent families? Mother girls? Serie B, those too. What about the orphans? The children who are born and lose their father and mother? Z-series, I guess. Let us not confuse the personal opinions of a pediatrician, as has been clearly stated, for the absolute truth. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini]] Parentality is based on the stability of relationships, affection and dedication. There can be a father and a mother and there can be violence and incest. As we know, in our country 92 percent of the violence takes place in the secret of the family. Then, we need stability of relationship, affection and dedication for our children and educational projects. The president of the psychiatric society Claudio Mencacci says this very well and today he says it in other words Claudio Magris. I invite you to read that article also those people who, in life, have seen Westerns and the reactionary John Wayne raise a child found in the desert. In short, biological-reproductive parenting must be distinguished from relational and affective parenting. There's nothing to do. This is because science, technology and the age, which made us pass from sexuality without procreation to procreation without sexuality, lead us in that direction. The treatment of sterility through medically assisted procreation, the treatment of diseases, the non transmission to their children diseases, parental law, as affirmed by the European Court, are fundamental values in our country. Of course, there is Law No. 40 of 2004, which regulates these aspects, in an absolutely unholy way. The Constitutional Court has issued a number of judgments and in the Commission we have already incardinated the reform of Law No 40, because we must comply with these judgments, whether or not the bishops of the family and children made naturally like them. It is not clear, however, what nature is: glasses could also be considered illegal, because they are evidently a non-natural prosthesis. We have therefore incardinated this bill and I believe that is the area in which to discuss this issue, without evokeing ghosts that do not exist. That is the area in which we should discuss whether and how we want to strengthen the ban - which I share - on the womb for rent and surrogacy. I agree with that ban, but I would like us not to lose the organic nature of the law, putting the strengthening of a ban in a law where it has absolutely nothing to do with it, except as a future and possible eventuality. And this practice is already prohibited by Article 12 (6) of Law No 40 of 2004, which is the right place to discuss it. I would like to remind Minister Lorenzin, with whom I agree on a lot of things, that the register of gametes and transparency in the field of donation wanted them this Parliament and not the Government. I want to say it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Simeoni]] Let us try to maintain what this Parliament, unanimously, has done well. The Minister does not make the equation between surrogacy and heterologous fertilization, because this is scientifically wrong. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bencini and Simeoni]] Of course, I am opposed to using the woman's body as a container, but I remember well that the request of women as a container - returning to Roman law - was placed exactly by those who intervened on Law No. 40 of 2004, to justify the element of naturality in procreation. I am opposed to the dignity of women, and yet I have a mild right. I do not believe and I am not convinced that we can deny that irreducible power of generation that is given to women. If a woman wants to procreate, she can do it, and no one will notice and no one will understand what technique she has done it. Is that clear? I think you're clear. The problem then concerns men and, if it concerns men, clearly there is prejudice behind it. One wonders: who knows two men with a child what they can do? Asking him is sad, sleazy and out of time. I believe that we must regulate the matter and also strengthen the ban, but in an area of support and respect for human dignity. I want to say this, Madam President, to Mr Formigoni, who knows how much fun he's had to write on Facebook about faggots of various kinds. Congratulations! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bottici and Simeoni.]] Finally there are children, children treated - yes - as packages, pulled from one side and from the other, that the right would want referees of their destiny when they are too young to decide. And in this is also the high meaning of parenthood and the intervention of the judiciary. The famous stepchild adoption - if we could use Italian terms, it would be better - is a start. It is a beginning, which will not necessarily lead everyone to make the worst choices. [[Call the president back.]] I have concluded, Madam President. However, it is an important beginning, also because we know that the path will still have to end with a measure concerning adoptions. We all know that perfectly well. I conclude with a quotation from Professor Lingiardi in his book entitled "Citizen gay" which speaks of affections and rights, whose reading I recommend to all those who think the world is a closed box. He quotes Voltaire's "Candide" by referring to Leonard Bernstein's musical work. I'll read you the last piece. It's very few lines, ma'am. Eventually the various characters come on stage and say: That dreamers also dream of the worlds they prefer; Eden cannot be found. The sweetest flowers, the most beautiful trees, have roots in the solid soil. We are not pure, neither wise, nor good. We'll do our best. We will build our own house, cut our own woods, and cultivate our own garden. That garden is not a private place but it is the place of the civil advancement of this country. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u11	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only touch on the two fundamental points that have emerged from the debate. Many colleagues, especially of the PD Groups (Mr De Biasi just now) and the 5 Star Movement have chanted civil unions, reserved exclusively for homosexual couples, because they consider it a step towards marriage, following its configuration from now on. Intellectual honesty would then have required a revision of Article 29 of the Constitution, since the Constitutional Court has told us clearly and roundly that the family, in the current Constitution, is a natural society founded on marriage between man and woman, with the impossibility of overcoming, with a creative interpretation, this legal bond: and in fact the Court has imposed us to place the issue within the scope of Article 2 of the Constitution, where the Republic guarantees the inviolable rights of man both as a single person and in the social formations where his personality takes place. I have already mentioned in this House that Aldo Moro presented to the constituent Assembly an amendment to Article 2 also signed by Amintore Fanfani, Nilde Iotti and Giovanni Amendola modified the original text where he spoke of the right of the individual and the social formations in the rights of the individual in the social formations, explaining - and it is a very topical speech - that the guaranteed inviolable rights are not those of the party, the union, the association and today of the couple, but those of the individuals who carry out their personality in social formation. Does the text we are discussing correspond to these indications? Unfortunately absolutely not, and the violation of Article 29 of the Constitution has been denounced by presidents and vice presidents emeritus of the Constitutional Court, such as Riccardo Chieppa, Ugo De Siervo, Giovanni Maria Flick, Paolo Maddalena, Cesare Mirabelli, Paolo Maria Napolitano, Fernando Santosuosso, together with hundreds of other illustrious lawyers who have said clearly and roundly that this text is contrary to the current Constitution. Not to mention the blatant and macroscopic violation of Article 72 of the Constitution for which we are presenting a conflict of attribution to the Constitutional Court, which will be deposited tomorrow morning, for the expropriation of the competences that that article guarantees to the senators, all violations of the Constitution, I remind the President of the Senate, certainly not sanitized by parliamentary majority shots. Moreover, it is a bunch of discriminatory rules, for example heterosexual couples whose discipline, never deepened by the Commission of merit, brings out new pearls, such as that of the lease, denounced by Confaed building, or of the obligation of food even without marriage. We all know that removing stepchild adoption does not solve the problem of the uterus for rent because with this text adoptions would be imposed by European jurisprudence. As far as stepchild adoption is concerned, in fact, we have heard theses whose legal and cultural depth is equal to that of the messengers of the Baci Perugina, having been proposed as a mantra that love is love and must prevail over everything. Yet, since humanity exists in all latitudes, in every continent, in any social or religious political context, marriage has always been between a man and a woman. Our forefathers had already questioned some of the issues that are under discussion today. Already in the second century before Christ the jurist Brutus had called disgusting to qualify as fruit the birth of the slave and Muzio had established that the birth of the slave was not to be considered a fruit like that of the animals and agricultural products. Justinian, under the influence of Christianity, in his compilation justified the denial of the qualification of fruit to the birth of the slave - and I invite you to note the topicality of the discourse - in order to prevent some from buying and keeping slaves to perform the specific task of procreation; exactly what happens today in certain countries. Even the pagan Virgilio in a very famous verse of "Le Bucoliche" wrote: "Incipe, parve puer, rissu cognoscere matrem" and that is translated into Italian: "It begins, child, to recognize from the smile the mother: long pain caused the mother the ten months. It begins, child: he to whom the parents did not smile, neither a god deigned him of his table, nor a goddess of his bed. Those who do not enjoy, says Virgil, the mother's smile was considered so unlucky in life that the gods will not want to sit at her table or the goddesses lying in her bed. Not to mention the splendid and terrible poetry that Pier Paolo Pasolini dedicated to his mother and his irreplaceable love. I have heard so much about Europe, Europe and Europe again; to those who want to destroy the certainties of all generations in the name of an overwhelming modernity, I remember the almost total consensus that the Jacobins, the Communists, the Nazis and all those who wanted to create the new man and, after gigantic disasters, ended up in the forgetfulness of history. Mr Lo Giudice told us in his speech, referring to the child, that together with his partner he got himself in California by getting paid an oocyte from one woman and the gestation from another, that there is no exploitation of women because such practices, for homosexual couples, are allowed only in the advanced countries. Unfortunately, this is not the case at all because while the oocyte is purchased after a hormonal bombardment by women who must have precise characteristics of health, beauty, intelligence, race (eugenic substantially), to save pregnancy is commissioned to another woman in countries such as Cambodia, Moldova, Bulgaria, Nepal, Mexico or India, where despite the prohibitions of the authorities the practice remains widespread. I have recently indicated a table of the non-profit organization Men Having Babies, which assists homosexual couples who want to obtain a child; the price for getting a child "turnkey" varies from 170,000 to 70,000 dollars, largely depending on the possibility that the pregnant woman can be rented in Third World countries, taking advantage of the situation of poverty and despair of those who are forced to sell their child after nine months of gestation (when it does not happen, according to the contract, that the woman is forced to abort the child not up to the expectations of the clients). It is offensive that someone comes to tell us that this form of special adoption, the adoption of the stepson, is introduced to solve the problem of about 500 children who already live in Italy with a biological father and mother and a "social" partner, as it is defined: Article 44 (a) of the adoption law solves the problem. There is no discrimination with respect to the children of any other couple, because, in the event of the death of the real father or the natural mother, the judge may decide for the special adoption by the surviving partner in case you consider a consolidated relationship of affection between this and the child raised by the couple. No child ends up in an orphanage, as is said, because the partner can take it for adoption. Making adoption automatic vice versa means legalizing the use of the uterus for rent abroad with the certainty of being able to adopt the child after returning to Italy. A real return to forms of slavery that we thought could no longer exist or find supporters. In this situation then the child, who is already programmed from the beginning as an orphan of father or mother, is deprived of his right to grow up in a family where there is a paternal and a maternal point of reference. In these days a controversy has arisen on the basis of studies and research that would prove that a child raised with two fathers or with two mothers has no problem for the balance of growth, neither in relations with parents "1" and "2" or with the society that surrounds him. Senator De Biasi, I'm not ashamed to say I'm worried. The Italian Government, specifically the UNAR, collaborates with the circle Mario Mieli, named after a gentleman who wrote in favor of paedophilia and pederastia and the duty of every mother to join her daughters and every father with her children. And the Italian Government continues to do so despite the questions put! But aren't you ashamed to collaborate with a circle named after a pederast and pedophile gentleman? It is as if the government, in contrast to anti-Semitism, collaborated with a club entitled Adolf Hitler or Hermann Göring. Seems out of place to me. Since there are people who sing about these diseases, there are also such concerns. Madam President, it is very strange that this argument is supported precisely by the political sectors that make the precautionary principle a dogma even when there are to be protected from possible risks environment and animals, to the point of having imposed through the then Councillor Cirinna (no one has denied it: just go and check) the ban to remove for a few months the puppies of dogs and cats just born to their mothers, so that they do not suffer trauma. The children of dogs and cats, not the children of women! Instead, it is thought that children will experience the effect they will have on their development in finding themselves with two fathers or two mothers, without knowing who the real father or the real mother is. I remember that the Pope mentioned on April 11, 2014 stated: It is necessary to reaffirm the right of children to grow up in a family, with a father and a mother capable of creating an environment suitable for its development and for its emotional maturation (...) I would like to express my refusal for every type of educational experimentation with children. You can't experiment with children and young people. They're not lab rats! The horrors of the educational manipulation that we have experienced in the great genocidal dictatorships of the twentieth century have not disappeared; they retain their currentity in different ways and proposals that, with the claim of modernity, push children and young people to walk on the dictatorial path of the "unique thought" (...). We repeat, once again and with conviction, that such sensitive issues cannot be dealt with in this House in such an adventurous way and that the measure must return to the Commission to at least remedy the most striking defects of constitutionality. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Gasparri. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u13	She is registered to speak Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to try to make a contribution to a debate which, because of the quality of the matter we are debating, has recorded and still records an incomponibility of positions which, although physiological and even legitimate, risks losing the thread of systemic rationality which should support every legislator in any matter. I say now, ladies and gentlemen, that what I am going to say now is the result of a reflection, even a difficult one, that I have conducted in recent months and that of course it has been nourished by the meeting with many colleagues but that it is above all the result of a confrontation with myself and with my deep convictions. I am not going back to the question of the introduction of the instrument of civil unions, because it seems obvious that this is no longer the object on which to focus. On the other hand, I will address the question of Article 5 of the draft law, namely the extension of the scope of application of that legislation in special cases provided for in Article 44 (b) of Law No 184 of 1983 on adoptions. The system in which we are working is the adoption law and we are talking about a reform of an article in that law. As all my colleagues know, the value system in which this legislation is based has been referred not only essentially, but I would say only to the primary interest of the child to be adopted under conditions in which he is guaranteed stability and continuity, education and education. This choice, as we know, we have recently reaffirmed and strengthened it, for example by equalizing adoption with legitimate and natural sonship, also with regard to relations with ascendants. We therefore work in an area in which the aim that the legislator intended and intends to satisfy is not that of a couple having a child, but that of a child to be assured of the emotional and educational continuity of which we spoke. Under Article 44 (b), a child, even a adoptive child, of one of the spouses can be adopted by the other to guarantee him, in case of parental premorience, stability and emotional continuity. With the text under discussion, this possibility is also extended to the case where the child is a child, even an adoptive, of one of the members of the civil union. This is the point, therefore, which consists in the right of the child - child, to current legislation, of one of the spouses, tomorrow, with the approval of the reform that we propose, son of one of the members of the civil union - to see itself ensured continuity and emotional and educational stability. The choice of value that is made with Article 5 of the draft law is therefore in full and continuous consistency with the 1983 law. We are therefore not talking about a right of the members of the civil union to adoption, a right which in our system does not even exist for the couple of spouses, but about the right of each child to enjoy the stability and continuity that I have spoken about. [[Applause from Senators Cirinna and De Biasi]] For this reason, the adoption order is taken by the court for minors in a complex procedure, which looks exclusively to the pre-eminent interest of the child and is governed by articles 45 to 57 of Law No 184. I invite Senator Giovanardi to read it rather than say that we are talking about automatic adoption. It's not like that! [[Applause from the PD Group]] GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). That's right. FINOCCHIAR (PD). It is a complex procedure, similar to that of adoptions, which provides for a whole series of interventions by judges and experts. Its article begins by saying that the child can be adopted - I repeat: it can be adopted - if, at the end of this ballot, it is established that the child's primary interest is to continue in that stable emotional and educational continuity that we have talked about. However, colleagues in some political forces raise objections based on the fact that the parenthood of one of the members of civil unions derives from surrogate motherhood. Of course, this is not always the case, because a homosexual parent may have had the child from a previous marriage or from a relationship with a woman; of course, as my colleague said, we are talking about male homosexual couples. But it also happens that this is the case, that it is a child of a surrogate motherhood; as has so far been the case, under current legislation, for all those heterosexual couples united in marriage who have used this form of special adoption, because, being sterile, they had resorted to surrogate motherhood. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bencini and Mussini]] ; these couples represent the vast majority of those who use it: of course the percentages are not correct, but experts speak of a percentage that exceeds about 80%. Yet so far I had never heard, from those benches, denounce the adoption of a minor son of a married couple (adoptability by the spouse, of course), although born as a result of surrogate motherhood. If therefore Article 5 represents, according to some, an incentive to use the uterus for rent, it has constituted it and constitutes it, up to now, for that 80 percent at least of Italian spouses who have made and make use of the uterus for rent. This means, and logically, that abolishing Article 5 would have no appreciable deterrent effect on the use of surrogacy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Cristofaro]] It could have it - as Mr Lo Giudice suggested, and we must reflect on this - a reform of the adoption law. But it is on surrogacy that I want to make my political position clear. You know me: I am a woman of the Italian left and both characteristics, as far as I'm concerned, are essential for my political culture and my convictions. As a left-wing woman, I think that the Italian left cannot escape reflection on the issue of surrogacy. It will be said: nothing new, since we have stubbornly wanted, in Law No. 40, the ban on the uterus for rent. In this, let me say, we are second to none; it seems to me that that libertarian drift about which Senator Palma spoke simply does not exist. But my opposition to surrogate motherhood is not based solely on the more immediate reason for the unacceptable exploitation of a woman's body. I am sorry, but I cannot hide that it is possible that there are women who, outside of economic, sexist or family constraints, freely decide to complete a pregnancy on a committee basis. I find that inconceivable; but it is possible that it will happen and indeed it will happen. But my hostility is also based on another reason, which I believe to be at least equivalent in gravity: the one according to which surrogacy is aimed at the production of bodies destined for exchange, very often economic. They are intended to be produced by surrogate mothers, on a commission basis, for exchange; that is the point, and the left cannot fail to have a word on that. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Formigoni and Giovanardi]] Mercification of value and surplus value today are declined in the commercialization of bodies and their exchangeality in an international market, through the exploitation of the body of a woman oppressed by sexist, economic, family bonds, and is exhausted in the monetization of the exclusive power to procreate, which is of the female body, and the value of a newborn. This is done through transnational organisations, based in countries where the uterus for rent is not prohibited and which has followed medical, legal, insurance and logistical assistance for a fee. It is not difficult, colleagues, to know more: type surrogacy onto your computer. The offer of services, inclusive of tariffs, will submerge you, yet the law n. 40 of 2004, in article 12, paragraph 6, also prescribes that advertising and organization aimed at the uterus for rent be punished. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Formigoni]] It will be necessary to call on the institutions, police investigation forces and the judiciary to comply with this article. I shall then make three proposals, ladies and gentlemen, and I shall begin to conclude. First of all, a motion, which I will deposit shortly, with which the Senate commits the Government to an initiative for the international ban on the practice of the uterus for rent in every country of the world [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri, Formigoni and Giovanardi]] , in the name of the dignity of the human person and the rights of each child. Secondly, a reform of the adoption law - a field on which we must begin to reflect - has characteristics and generosity focused on the prime interest of the child to be adopted, without the need to be heterosexual married couples or couples. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reflect on another proposal that I make: the Senate, within the framework of its prerogatives - in the forms that we will choose - is enabled to make an informed and informed opinion on the system of recruitment, mediation and assistance aimed at the exploitation of the body of women and the creation of human beings destined for exchange. As far as I am concerned and as far as I have said, I shall vote for this measure in all its articles with every conviction. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bencini and Mussini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u15	Senator D'Ascola is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u16	Madam President, I would like to make one premise, although I think it is superfluous: there is no discriminatory intention in the position of the People's Area: we would be ashamed if we had only thought of discrimination against persons who have sexual orientations of a homosexual nature; let alone there is the refusal of legislative discipline of the homosexual relationship, therefore of civil unions to be understood as regulatory unions of relations between the same sex. However, we cannot sin that superficiality which would lead to neglecting the modalities of a legislative discipline, believing that it should be accepted in any form only because it regulates relations between subjects of the same sex. Now, we are able to explain the reasons of our political position, but also of those moral choices, of that vision of society which inevitably constitutes the foundational part of every position that must be taken on issues that concern the ethical position, sexual orientation, but also the overall vision of society that is imagined to design for the future. So not an a priori no, not a closure determined by grounds of discrimination, but the possibility of being able to explain in a completely analytical and completely clear way our position. On the other hand - and the advance - I have shared much of Senator Finocchiaro's speech just made: some parts are truly acceptable and, in a certain sense, demonstrative of how in this House there are positions that obviously intertwine, apart from the difference in political positions that are inevitably obvious here. Illustrious senators and senators, there is a red thread that binds some of the main variables of this complex discourse on so-called civil unions: marriage, on the one hand (as a category of general order), adoptions and uterus for rent. This is precisely the subject on which Senator Finocchiaro, for her part, entertained all of us who, with great respect and participation, followed her speech. Why do I allow myself to speak of a common red thread linking these three arguments that some thought we could separate, trivializing the meaning that must necessarily connect to each of them individually, but that then, above all, binds them in a truly dramatic risk that we would like to avoid and that above all we would not want our country to correct? I did it because there is no doubt that the subject of marriage is directly related to adoption. We would be superficial, we would be naive, we would also sin the ability to imagine the foreseeable evolution of law if we were not in a position to predict immediately that if civil unions follow the marriage in an integral way already they imply the possibility of adoptions regardless of any reference - and in this case I agree with another senator who prefers, like me, the Italian language to the Anglo-Saxon denominations - to that bad term of adoption of the stepson, for how the stepchild adoption translates into Italian. On the one hand, therefore, marriage, if of a homosexual nature, inevitably cannot be discriminated against already by virtue of Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), therefore of the prohibition of discrimination against heterosexual marriage; therefore, one has an implied and necessarily connected idea of adoption as characteristic of every marriage union. Marriage therefore enters this dynamic precisely because of the impossibility of separating its meaning, its legal scope, from the theme of adoptions. Moreover, the issue of adoptions, referred to in Article 5 of the draft law under consideration, as a provision specially dictated for the theme of civil unions, inevitably opens the way to the uterus for rent. How do you not see this linking element? This is a similar marriage that will inevitably involve the power to adopt; obviously the power to request it from the judge, there would be no other: there is no direct adoption that can be prepared by private initiative, there will always be a magistrate obviously to have to decide. However, it is a marriage approved in a very clear way, the fourth paragraph of Article 3 which states that in all the provisions, the expressions "spouse" or "spouse" must be understood to be equivalent to the related expressions "partner" or "partners" of civil unions. Inevitably, this leads to an overlapping of an institute, that of civil union, with marriage, to which the idea of adoption is inevitably connected. With regard to adoptions, since in the context of civil unions it will not be possible to have always and necessarily a child to adopt, except in the case of the pre-existence of a natural child or of a adoptive son (which certainly is possible, but not necessarily constant and present in all these events), Article 5 of the bill under consideration will inevitably open the door to the practice of the uterus in rent, of which it was said just before to be representative of the marketing, not only of its own body, but of the product of its own body in a context in which this product will not only be the subject of an exchange (the body of a child just born against the price), but will also end up being a reason of submission of weak and defenceless categories towards subjects with the capacity of economic persuasion. They are considerations in everything and for everything superimposed on those that have just been pronounced. It was obvious that the pride, but also the tradition, of a feminist culture, which was formed through the great battles that really represented the promotion of our country, should stop on this topic. It is unthinkable, in fact, that to an idea of civilization is disconnected the idea that the body and the product of the body of a woman cannot be the subject of an exchange, the counterpart of which is represented by the payment of a sum of money. If these, ladies and gentlemen, are the terms of the matter, I must return - and may I say so - to an issue which cannot be forgotten. It was said a moment ago that the uterus for rent is prohibited by the sixth paragraph of Article 12 of Law No 40 of 2004; but it is clear that the punishable conduct is only fake, apparent. We must say this with peremptoryness, not so much because it constitutes my personal conviction (which, of course, would be all too irrelevant for it to be communicated in this House), but because important judgments by the Italian courts have already declared it, as a result of a legal situation on the very obvious and indisputable point: if it is punishable in Italy the uterus for rent, it is out of the question that it is allowed abroad. Therefore, even in Italy a conduct is not punishable if it is carried out in a foreign country where it is allowed. What we call the double indictment clause is missing and, moreover, the known facts, which are in the attention of each of us, are perfectly demonstrated by the fact that, not for all homosexual couples, but for rich homosexual couples it is allowed to go abroad, to create, through the instrument of the uterus for rent, an artificial family, through the commission of a woman to give birth to a child who will immediately be taken from her, to return to Italy and to determine a situation in fact that Article 5, but also Articles 1, 2 and 3 would determine as perfectly superposition to a situation of law. This is the point that People's Area - and those who think like us - wants to prevent: there is no preconceived opposition to adoptions disconnected from the use that can be made of the adoptions system with certainty. Those who are opposed to the womb for rent cannot, then, be in favour of adoptions, because adoption creates the assumption that the practice of the uterus for rent is encouraged. We will have a series of couples who will be nothing but clients of uterines for rent, in an attempt to create, artificialally, a family that from the natural point of view will be an impossible family. If the point of arrival of our reasoning is then that constituted by the fact that the uterus for rent must be prohibited, it is clear that we, before that, must prohibit the conditions that will give rise to the uterus for rent. To tell the truth, and giving an answer to Senator Finocchiaro, that statement of his, which is entirely acceptable, I feel to subscribe to it; indeed, in a certain sense I have signed it even before, with the presentation of an amendment, in the part in which we ask reasonably - let me emphasize the adverb that I may pronounce - that the legal discipline that is, for sexual tourism, already in the penal code, to make, that is, punishable also in Italy a conduct of uterus in rent committed abroad, to a territory where that conduct is allowed. Senators and senators of this splendid Italian Senate, we can then see how in the end the distances are not so many, because that practice is the objective of a prohibition that is based on natural law - let me say it first - as well as considerations that would make our legal system strabico (it is assessed in a certain way an affair and a similar story is assessed in a diametrically opposite way, not following those criteria of equality and reasonableness that want similar events to be treated similarly, in compliance even with constitutional assumptions). This is our common way of feeling; a way of seeing - let me be allowed to be suspected of forms of cultural regression is an accusation that obviously does not make anyone happy, especially those who would never have thought they could be cataloged on the side of subjects who do not want the happiness of others, who hinder it in all ways - which was recently publicly shared by a Marxist philosopher, Giuseppe Vacca, who said the same things that we said before. It is not the intention to use a cultural or ideological coverage that causes me to make these references: if anything, it is the desire to emphasize the validity of our observations. There's an obvious connection, inevitable. In short, those who prepare for adoptions must know that they will stimulate the practices of the uterus for rent in conjunction with that further affirmation. Individual rights must be protected, of course. From liberal positions no one can say anything contrary to the protection of individual law, but individual law, in a country that knows the complexity of an extremely delicate social dynamic in this regard, must be coordinated in a context of social cohesion. We cannot simply say that every right must be recognised; as far as my personal conviction is concerned, duties should also be recognised (and citizens should also be called to respect duties occasionally). In a context of this kind, we do nothing but risk creating an even more liquid society than that which we are dealing with with with enormous difficulties, a civilization which has no directionality, which merely asserts that because one thing is modern, because others have done it, for this reason we too should do so, without even thinking, without even having these words spoken in an Assembly, which can certainly reject them and classify them negatively, but which can lead to reflection and even unity of political forces if we find the right balance point. With these considerations, excellent senators and excellent senators, I dare to say that history does not always and necessarily develop for linear enhancements. We cannot always say that a novelty is, however, a positive fact, because when it comes to regulating the anthropological structure of a future society we cannot simplify the debate by saying that everything that represents a modernity is a fact to be shared, and on the contrary what is not included in the framework of novelties should not be shared. In fact, history - I repeat for the last time - does not develop for linear growth. We have had moments of serious regression. We who have lived the recent years of our national history know this: how many things have been presented to us as necessary because the times required it? And how many of these things did we, unfortunately, have to repent? I shall conclude, perhaps in advance of the time allocated to me, but I do not believe that this represents a limitation for those who speak, nor for the content of the debate. The red thread of which I was talking, which binds homosexual marriage, adoptions in the context of homosexual marriage and consequently womb in rent is a bond of all evidence. If we believe that the womb in rent must be banned radically, so that such a practice does not become the ordinary instrument of creating an artificial family, with grave overpowering for women's rights and with a grave mortification of its nature and social function, not only must we prevent these obvious connections, but we must ensure that the womb in rent constitutes a punishable crime in Italy wherever it is committed. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and LN-Aut]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u17	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u18	Madam President, when I started my activism, which later became a politician, I was trying to explain to friends and citizens who were approaching what I was doing collecting signatures and spreading information. To sum up the goal of the 5 Star Movement, I said that my dream was that Italy would become a bit more similar to many other countries with which we like to confront. I said this thinking of many topics such as freedom of information, which for our country is still at the bottom of all international rankings, namely the level of corruption, which in our country is not at acceptable levels when compared with others. We were thinking of protection systems for people in difficulty. And, in fact, we are insisting so much in every seat on citizenship income. They are all tools that are missing in this Italy so strangely different from our neighbours. These included civil rights, the background of the recriminations we used to make years ago, and we are doing today in Parliament. They represent the true humus of a Movement that wants to revolutionize peacefully and democratically this country making it, from our point of view, a little 'better. It is not a question of copying other people's experiences, considering them, almost with a sort of inferiority complex, better than ours, but of verifying, for those who have adopted certain social, economic and legislative experiments, what effects they have produced. The first question that we should ask ourselves to answer some questions, clearly instrumental, is whether there really has been an anthropological change of families and societies in these countries. We have said several times - as the stones know by now - that all European countries, and not only, in their already egalitarian marriage system - and this means that homosexual couples can simply marry by having the same rights and obligations among themselves with regard to possible offspring - or have tools similar to civil unions, which we would now like to introduce, which do not even nominally equal the discipline of an affective relationship with the marriage institution. Let's go see this experience, not because others are better than us. I believe it cannot be denied that the anthropological mutations, the dismantling of the family and the degeneration of society towards a depravity or a drift that wants to assume attitudes against nature with the union of more people - we have read and heard of all - or with animals or other have not occurred. This should be a comfort to those who want to approach pragmatically, serenely and reasonably the subject we are dealing with. Therefore, I turn to the heart of the debate, namely Article 5 of the draft law under consideration, which clearly contains the argument on which the controversy has arisen, very often instrumental. I define them this way, even with all respect due to those who really believe in their own position and to those who have legitimate perplexities. It is a respect that we owe to anyone, to any Italian citizen, whatever the political formation he feels close to: this must be out of the question. There is no doubt, however, that the legitimate perplexities must be dealt with by a vomit of hypocrisy, which, in my opinion, has also pervaded this House. The hypocrisy is to hide arguments contrary to the bill as a whole, as well as to the institute provided for in Article 5, which provides for the extension of parenthood to the partner of the father or biological mother of the couple. Hypocrisy is evident when we analyse, as has been done in part by previous colleagues, the practical and rational effects of the rule that we would like to introduce and which extends the possibility of this para-adoption. Let's remember: the so-called stepchild adoption is not a legitimate adoption and the relationship that is born, is born only between the partner of the biological parent and the child, with the obvious aim of increasing the protection for the child [[Applause from Senator Airola]] Please: let's be clear, to try to disassemble the counter-information that is done in the squares and in the media. We are talking about an instrument that serves to guarantee the children and, therefore, those who really care about the family, the procreation, the offspring and the future of our society can only see favorably the intention of these people, who want to put their own self, their own person, their own future and their own belongings in order to guarantee another person who is born. Hypocrisy comes from the description of tragicomic situations, which would result from the adoption of this rule: I will talk about it later, but it would not change substantially anything compared to what already happens in the courts. In fact, they describe brute homosexuals, who would go to poor countries to exploit women in poverty, with the ugly practices of artificial insemination or of the uterus for rent. I've always found the expression "uterus" uncomfortable for rent.I prefer the terminology that speaks of pregnancy for others, or GPA, if we want to use an acronym. [[Applause from Senator Cirinna]] The description of these brutes, who go to poor countries and then rip this child out of the mother's womb, is tragicomic and to prove it suffices to look at how these operations are actually carried out. We have already said, and we reiterate, that to use this instrument, to date, as far as Italy is concerned, they are in great prevalence heterosexual couples, i.e. couples who cannot have children and who resort to this censorable technique. Whether you like it or not, that's the fact. So, there is this first level of hypocrisy to report: why are you waking up just now, tearing your clothes and thinking about the protection of these poor Indian, Thai, Russian or Ukrainian mothers who sell out their bodies for this horrible sale of children? Why are you only doing this now, when it comes to same-parent couples? Why, if not for the reason that there is a prejudice behind all this? Prejudices exist in companies, must be understood, conceived, fought or accepted, depending on the injury. This is a prejudice which, in my opinion, Italy must overcome, just as we have overcome other prejudices in the past, which were part of the historical and cultural heritage of society. Again, the thought runs to the few decades since women were granted the right to vote. It seems incredible to us that, less than a hundred years ago, women could not vote. A similar cultural leap was made by introducing divorce. Even then, apocalyptic scenarios resonated in the Assemblies, in the political debate and in the press, talking about anthropological mutations; it was said that the family would be killed and wondered what would become of the founding institution of society. It was also said that it was useless to look at other people's experiences, because we have nothing to copy and no one has to teach us anything, that we are the home of right. We have seen that divorce, for example, defended in that referendum by the majority of Italians, has involved some necessary changes that the social body has experienced over time and will continue to live. Therefore, there is no anthropological mutation but the need for legislation, and therefore the political class, to address pragmatically and serenely the problems that emerge gradually in a social body, inevitably evolving, that must be addressed in the best way, trying not to be an instrument or victim of ideological speculation. In fact, that's what ruins everything. Ideology becomes the goal to which we must strive, no matter what it costs, even at the cost of denying the evidence and evidence that experience teaches. It is worth remembering that this risk does not exist. Not only are we not authorising anything more than what already happens, but I remember that homosexual couples, couples made up of men, obviously cannot access these techniques in countries like India, Thailand or even Russia and Ukraine, where homosexuality is still a crime. So what are we talking about? We know from experience that today the GPA for homosexual couples is practiced in some states of the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, very often for solidarity purposes: there is no compensation, there is no purchase of the woman or her body. I repeat, without prejudice to what everyone can think of this practice (and I personally am not excited about it) we must take note of it all the times when there is no constraint on a will or objective damage done to someone. It is time to overcome the hypocrisies and also to reject those attacks and forced exploitations of part of the most conservative world, which very often identifies with sectors of Catholicism. We have another opportunity to say that this is a secular state. There are legitimate personal convictions, perhaps derived from religious principles, and here in the Chamber the book of Leviticus, in the Old Testament, has been quoted. But do we really have to regulate our choices according to what they believed, legitimately at the time, Middle Eastern populations of 3,000 years ago? Let's get rid of these weights, these conditionings. Let's face reality for what it is. Speaking of misinformation or misunderstandings, Senator Giovanardi, now absent, once again, in my view, tries to poison the wells of the debate, because he still speaks today of Article 29 of the Constitution that, we remember, is not called into question in this bill, talking about marriage that the Constitution would foresee between man and woman. Courteously, go and see what Article 29 of the Constitution says and you will find that Senator Giovanardi continues to poison the wells by saying and writing things that are not true. However, even if we do not reach this conclusion, aimed at protecting the good of children, we are already getting the case law, as has been said, both the Italian and the European ones. It is a few months ago, for example, a judgment of the Milan Court of Appeal that in the case of two Italian women married in Spain and who then divorced, wanting to protect the common son, has not already endorsed the non-legitimate adoption of stepchild adoption but the legitimate adoption, that is, the actual adoption, because to this we are obliged also the international treaties that we have signed. Therefore, it is an opportunity that the Italian Parliament cannot miss, after more than 30 years that this country expects a law of civilization, to protect especially children and new lives. Those who wave the protection of life should make a really calm reflection on this and arrive at positions that are not a little more modern but more reasonable. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Cirinna and Lumia. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u19	Senator Fattorini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I want this law to be a celebration for everyone. Yes, festive, because finally extending all rights, I say all, to couples who, regardless of their sexual orientation, choose to live with responsibility and love a stable and supportive relationship is a conquest of civilization for all. I repeat: for everyone. We've all heard that the family has changed. But everyone wants to be a family and there could be no clearer evidence of its persistence and resistance. Yet, instead of being celebrated this law has once again become the occasion of furious confrontation, of that ethical bipolarism that we hoped was part of a season now past. On the contrary, it is a paralyzing polarization that does not express, ladies and gentlemen, does not translate the feeling of the majority of people, who in everyday emotional experiences have less Adamentine certainties, less ideological blocs. The same homosexual communities are articulated, not monolithic, not caricatural, as they represent certain privileged and interested lobbies; just as Catholics are not all conservatives, they no longer find themselves in an idealized model of the White Mill family. It would have been nice (and I hope it is still) for politics to voice and perceive these sensibilities of real Italy, instead of being a megaphone of ideological contrasts. In fact, it has not been said, but it is good to remember it before we enter into the heart of the votes, that the delay on bioethics issues in this country is not due to the clash between laity and Catholics but much more by the instrumental use that politics has made of it, for calculation and cynicism, for opportunistic interest and not out of conviction. And I want to hope that the secret vow doesn't hide these miseries. Do not exploit it, because we in the Democratic Party who disagree on certain points of this law, which I will now illustrate, do not play games, we are transparent and we have always conducted this battle with transparency. So do not exploit such sensitive issues for political calculations. And let's get to the point of merit. Many of us, laity and Catholics, had already presented at the beginning of the legislature a bill that provided all rights to homosexual couples (i.e. the first part of the bill now presented) leaving out the theme of adoptions, to be dealt with in another forum. In all the countries of the world that alas preceded us, in fact, these laws have seen two stages, as well as the German one to which ours should be inspired. The famous law lebenspartnerschaft involves two phases: the first, that of all rights and the second, coming many years later, that of adoptions or, however, of the registration of children. But it wasn't. We asked for this, but that was not the case. Many of us in this House and a lot of people in the country believe that stepchild adoption, which is the result of our dissent, in its current version is not limited to recognizing all the rights to children who already live within the couple (as it is sacrosanct) and to giving all the duties to the partner of the natural parent (because it is children to have rights and it is parents to have duties). We all agree on that. And let me say that it is more than disrespectful to attribute to those who criticize Article 5, as we do, little consideration for the protection of children already born. This is a full falsehood. Look, any controversy is acceptable, but do not exploit children. I don't accept that at all. Those of us who support the reinforced foster care (and there are many of us) think that it is a mediation that guarantees more the rights of children, because it guarantees to both partners all the parental functions, even in case of death and separation, bearing in mind, for the future, not for those already existing, the fundamental difference that exists between raising children and procreating them, for me a fundamental distinction. On the stepchild adoption converge various criticisms and perplexities, some strong and some less, and of various nature. I take the two most consistent ones, which certainly do not concern only Catholics. There are those who think that the adoption of the pre-existing child legitimates homogenitality, the fact so much debated that the child would have the right to have a father and a mother. On this are different positions, all legitimate. Just as the scientific community is divided. Here, too, I would avoid wielding one against the teacher on duty, who takes sides on one side or the other. The truth is that there is little evidence on this, because children are few and because experiments are recent and those who are more serious in the scientific community suspend them. But they are both sacrosing positions. Then there is a second critical consideration of stepchild adoption, not at all presumptuous, which for me is essential and concerns the future, that is, the one linked to procreation. The argument that stepchild adoption would introduce the use of surrogate motherhood has been exploited for the purpose of boycotting the law and this is unacceptable, but that it does not have to do with it, as has also been said authoritatively in the interventions that preceded me, is not true and would be more credible if, criticizing this hypothetical instrumentalization, which on our part is not there, we did not respond glissando, saying that there is no relationship between stepchild adoption as it is and surrogate motherhood. It is obvious that heterosexuals make more use of it, it is obvious that in Italy it is denied, but it is equally obvious that with the current formulation of stepchild adoption a gay couple is legitimized as a condition, not as an option or exception, to use the uterus of a foreign woman (fruit of exploitation or gift, this arises at another point of the discussion), return to Italy, make civil union and start adoption practices. That is a fact. If for the children already born you will never have to control the origin (you would miss it!), for future children legislators must make a fantasy effort to find the form and the way to intervene, as well as, of course, for heterosexual couples who resort to it. We must be clear and frank about this, and few have been. I think, among the very few, of my colleague Sergio Lo Giudice, Ivan Scalfarotto and Emma Bonino, who, with honesty and clarity, have claimed that the practice of surrogacy, if it is a free choice, is not only acceptable but to be valued. A clear position, which refers to a legitimate humanism, but which is not mine, which is not ours, which is not part of the tradition of the Italian left, the humanist one and not the positivist one. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We must say this: I know very well that the majority thinks of it in another way and that the lallar of time is another, but - and I address myself above all to Senator Finocchiaro - we cannot say that these choices are part of the tradition of the left. And then, of the two at one: or it is admitted that it is right to procreate - I say not to raise and grow, that can be discussed - using the body of women, position that I respect but that I do not share, or is found, all together, a form that stigmatizes these practices signed by all. We have an amendment which reiterates what is already provided for in Law No 40, a law which, as it is now completely discredited, needs to be finalized. Let's do it all together, of course also for heterosexual couples, who resort to it most. It would already be useful to distinguish between inhumane exploitation and female consensus. We know that prohibition and punishment will never be a definitive embankment when desire becomes so powerful that it does not stop at any limit, but we find - and I very much thank Senator Finocchiaro for having understood and accepted this instance and its strong motivation - a solution that stigmatizes this practice, as they are doing, internationally, the movements that fight for the rights of those who really have no voice and protection. Because this is the bet of rights, today: the new battles of rights are there, not in proclaiming them in a pletoric way but taking charge of those who have no voice. It is clear that the condemnation of procreation on the exploitation of women-mothers must follow an organic reform of adoptions that facilitates and to do in certain times. The moral and material condition of hundreds of thousands of children in the world, of children and not of longing adults in our rich world, requires a different relationship with childhood, which can no longer be that of the last century. Let's make adoptions another way, making them more open. Let us open them, dear colleagues, let us open them with the law and with the heart. I shall conclude, Madam President. I don't know how our votes are going to go. Anyway, they'll go, I'll vote on this law. For more than two years I have tried to improve it, to convince my fellow Members to have more caution and less confusion about adoptions, I have done so together with others, whom I thank here. We have done so with conviction, in good faith and in a constructive spirit. We have not been heard, sometimes even mocked as a residual minority, but I am very happy to have done the same with them, for having extended the reflection to some indispensable principles, such as those of the defence of the female body, and for the concrete rights of children, for having signalled the political risk that on such important issues we must keep united and not divided the country. So not to pontificate, to remove rights, to suppress and to be prescriptive, as we have been rebuked. Beyond any result, if we were able to add even a minimum or just a little bit of awareness to our debate, well, colleagues, I am happy and very proud to have done so. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to put the ball back in the middle. A discussion about itself, in fact, had both the effect of maiming the scope of the bill, deleting from the debate the title relating to cohabitations, and that of making the theme of adoptions appear as a constituent of the discipline of civil unions, thus inducing the idea that those who oppose or have doubts about Article 5 do not want to recognize the unions themselves. I'll proceed with order. It is thanks to the PD, to the whole PD, to have brought this measure to the vote in the Chamber, which, in line with Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution, regulates cohabitations, completing the legal framework of what I love to call the right of affection. And going against the current, I stress that the regulation of civil coexistence is no less important, not only for the extension of the phenomenon, than that of civil unions. The discipline of cohabitations, in fact, offers protection not only to the more uxorio cohabitations, but also to the cohabitations of solidarity, which are often the consequence of the abandonment of people by family members and the flight of them from their ethical and legal duties. And more: the discipline of living together recognizes, just the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution, the right of people to choose the degree of legal binding to give to their affective relationships. I do not believe that all this incentive to de-responsibility, but on the contrary I believe that it helps to increase awareness, in addition to protecting the weak part. It is also due to the PD, the whole PD, to have brought the discipline of civil unions to the vote in this House; a discipline that offers homosexual couples the opportunity to formalize their bond and to give recognition and legal protection to the same. In this context (and not in other artificially constructed) the subject of adoption of the partner's son is included, as regards civil unions. It is quite clear - I repeat - that discussing this profile does not mean calling into question the recognition of the unions themselves, that adoption, on the contrary, is the inevitable prerequisite. Moreover, it is also clear that to pose the problem of a discipline of adoption which, in line with the provisions of Law No 40, is concerned with making the prohibition of surrogacy more effective, is an initiative which, far from being opposed, raises the problem of making the legal regulation of adoptions more appropriate. Moving on this horizon means not denying the problem of the need for legislation not only and not so much consistent with the legal framework, which provides for the crime of surrogate motherhood, but above all attentive to the balance between the right to be parents and that of being children, both attributable to the inviolable rights of man, which the Republic must recognize and protect, in accordance with Article 2 of the Constitution. This legislation must be declined in the light of the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution, known as the founding norm of our Charter, the result of overcoming the Enlightenment vision (limited to the legal declaration of rights) and which is based on the recognition of the absolute centrality of the human person, each and all, thus placing the question of the limit of the right of each in relation to the law of the other. This makes every absolute vision of a right unconstitutional, which would inevitably be irreconcilable with the fundamental principle of balancing and between rights, which prevents someone, in the name of his right, from prevaricating that of others. It is the city of all for all: that of the indispensable duties of political, economic and social solidarity and the full development of the human personality. In this context, I put my reflection on Article 5, i.e. on stepchild adoption. The horns of the problem can be summarized at the following moment. On the one hand, I rely on the words of those who have argued that: It is necessary to ensure that those who take care of the adopted child have the right motivation and also have the means and the ability to ensure a serene growth. Who is in such a condition? Certainly first of all a family composed of a man and a woman who have wisdom and maturity and who can ensure a series of interfamily relations (...). In the absence of this, it is clear that other people, even single people, could in fact give some essential guarantees. I would not therefore close myself to a single possibility, but I would leave it to those responsible to see what is the best solution in fact, here and now, for this child or child. The aim is to ensure the maximum possible favourable conditions. Therefore, when the choice is given, it is necessary to choose the best of the choices. On the other hand, I refer you to the following reflection: It is an era in which we feel subjected to various threats, the discrimination between the natural and the artificial mixes, there are not only "magnificent fates and progressives." It is a drift for which society does not exist but only individuals exist. How do you say, for example, that having a child is a right? How can one think of declining everything into the key of individual freedom, as if what happens was apart from the way in which the wills and consciences of human groups are composed? These are the reflections of Carlo Maria Martini and Giuseppe Vacca: the reflections of two personalities with deeply different stories and cultures, but moved with evidence by that intellectual honesty that does not prevent a prince of the Church (already in 2008) from recognizing that adoption cannot be precluded even to other people, even to the limit of singles, provided that everything moves with attention to the interest of the child to ensure him the maximum of favorable conditions, and to a Marxist philosopher to say that having a child is not a right and that not everything can be declined in individual freedom and in individual rights atomistically considered. The terms of a truly secular and constitutionally oriented debate are, in my opinion, exactly these. On this basis, as my first signature also shows, I recognise that the partner of the civil union can adopt the child of the other partner, not for his or her right to parenthood (which does not even have the spouse), but if and insofar as this is in the sole interest of the child. And I would add that, in the context of a reform of the adoption law, I am convinced that it must be regulated, taking away from the possible fluctuations in jurisprudence, also the legitimacy of the members of civil unions to the adoption tout court, provided that it is in the child's exclusive interest. As Cardinal Martini warned, in fact, the orphanage or the family home are not, always and in any case, the best solution in the absence of a heterosexual couple of adoptive parents. On the contrary, concrete experience objectively leads to ascertaining the superior quality of personalized and close relationships and the decisiveness of the latter for the growth of children where the natural condition is lacking. I would also add that, without prejudice to all the checks provided for in the Adoption Act, I have tabled several amendments which recognise the adoption by the partner for the children already born. For the future, however, one cannot ignore the effectiveness of the prohibition on surrogacy. Many say so, with different sensibilities, with different stories, having as much attention to the condition of the woman, who rents the uterus, as to the child so conceived. And we know that, unfortunately, the problem is universal, that is straight and homo, with the deviations that come up to the claim to be mother and parents without even the burden of pregnancy, up to the possibility of choosing at the table of the mother and the biological father by the legal parents. Summa lex, summa iniuria. Do we really not want to open ourselves secularly to the evidence of the matter? Do we really want to deny the objectivity of the theme? Do we really not want to open ourselves to doubt and admit that the problem of surrogacy should be addressed in connection with stepchild adoptions (clear, even for heterosexual couples)? Do we really want to insist on believing that a more analytical discipline, which, recognized the adoption of children already born, guarantees, for the future, a greater effectiveness of the prohibition of surrogacy is a cancellation or, worse, of Article 5? We accept the challenge of confrontation, and not of prejudice, and we build the solution in this House: it is already written in many of the reflections that have emerged in this general debate and in so many amendments to this bill. I hope, indeed, that the Senate can be the protagonist and can achieve a high mediation, ennobling its last mile of journey. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Razzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the subject under consideration, we must undoubtedly recognise two truths that have been established: the first is that the state of affairs of two homosexual cohabitants close by the bond of love must be governed from the point of view of rights; the second is that, in any case, the issue is thorny even for the most progressive when it comes to minors and adoptions by homosexual parents. Therefore, to these two truths must be added another which, in the opinion of the speaker, is already governed by law and law and is protected with respect to any other interest: I refer to the rights of the child, their legal protection and their psychophysical well-being. Therefore, even before the rights of adults, whether straight or homo, we must consider those of children, natural children or adopted children. Ladies and gentlemen, do we feel competent enough to ensure that children adopted by two fathers without a mother, or two mothers without a father, do not suffer from a psychophysical disorder such as to cripple their personalities in their normal process of growth? I say no. At least personally I feel fasted as regards any psychophysical implication that might adversely affect the personality of the child adopted by a homosexual couple. Who is competent to establish all this? Who should advise or strongly advise against the policy of law-making or not in this area? What studies does science offer us in order to be able to comfort in the choice of a law, serious but just measures, without further damage to the normal development of children? Personally, I know that the courts for minors are very attentive to the protection of minors, which prevaricates and surpasses for importance and attention that of adults; I also know that the decisions of the guardian judges are imposed by the indispensable certainty of child protection. However, I apologise, of course, for my ignorance in this case supported by a practice of millennial life (that is, that in which there are men and women, you will grant me this), if science, the operators of child psychology, psychiatry and behavioural disorders have not been questioned, if from these have never received an accurate and meticulous study on the behavioral and character consequences of children adopted by two parents of the same sex, do you not believe that we risk a breach of irresponsible competence? Our task, ladies and gentlemen, is to legislate, to adapt the regulations to the needs of the new millenniums, to the evolution of man in all his manifestations and therefore also in civil unions, once the problem that undoubtedly has a foundation is posed; however, at the same time it is not useful and not even sensible to legislate at any cost to do so, ignoring all the consequences faultily. I am trying to say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not important and neither modern nor progressive to adopt a law; the important thing is to approve it according to the rules of reasonableness and certainty so that it is useful, decisive and does not cause worse damage in the future. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u25	Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u26	Madam President, I would like to ask you now to be allowed to submit the written text, because of the need to be concise and to respect the deadlines.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u27	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u28	LO MORO (PD). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the general debate on the draft law No 2081 on civil unions has already recorded a number of speeches, in many of which I find myself fully, starting with Mr Cirinna's report. Various articles of the Constitution have been recalled: Article 2 on the inviolable rights of man, indicated by the Constitutional Court as the basis of the desired legal recognition of homosexual union, Article 3 and Article 29. It has been said that it would be discriminatory to reserve the legal institution of civil unions for same-sex couples and not extend it to heterosexual couples. It's not like that. We start from a situation, the current one, which excludes homosexual couples from marriage. An ad hoc legal institution is used for the latter because, in the Italian legal order, marriage as governed by the civil code is expressly reserved for persons of different sex. The institution of civil union fills a deficit of protection for homosexual couples, however in fulfillment of a positive obligation of the legislator, repeatedly reported by the Consulta. Extending the new institution to different sex couples would have meant putting the new institution in competition with marriage, questioning the centrality of the marriage institution that our legal system guarantees. In my speech on the preliminary rulings, to which I refer on the point, I focused on the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and, in particular, on the definition of the homosexual union contained in judgment No 138 of 2010. Today I would like to focus in particular on the international case law of the European Court of Human Rights, with a reference also to the case law of the Court of Justice of Luxembourg. This aspect is not properly valued and deserves further consideration, also in view of the value attributed to the ECHR (European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms), which binds as many as 47 States, including Italy, especially following the so-called twin judgments of the Italian Constitutional Court. First of all, to make everything more understandable, I would like to recall the rules of the Convention on which the debate has developed. This concerns Article 8 (Right to respect for private and family life), Article 12 (Right to marriage), Article 14 (Risk of discrimination). Article 9 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union should be added to these rules, according to which the right to marry and the right to establish a family is guaranteed in accordance with national laws governing the exercise of such rights. Turning to the case-law of the Court, with regard to homosexual couples and their rights, particularly important are the judgments which, together with some significant excerpts, translated from French or English, refer to judgments which are nevertheless part of the review filed in the acts of the Commission Justice. I begin by quoting Schalk and Kopf's case against Austria on 24 June 2010. The Court, having recalled the traditional interpretation of Article 12 of the Convention on the Right to Marriage, based on the literal fact (the rule refers to "man and woman"), compares Article 12 above with Article 9 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. He observed the Court (I read it because it is important to use precisely the terms derived from the judgments): The commentary on the Charter, which became legally binding in December 2009, confirms that Article 9 wants to have a wider scope than the corresponding articles contained in other human rights instruments. At the same time, the reference to national legislation reflects the diversity of national regulations ranging from the recognition of homosexual marriages to their explicit prohibition. With reference to national legislation, Article 9 of the Charter allows States to decide whether or not to allow homosexual marriages. In the words of the commentary - the Court continues - we read: "It can be said that there is no obstacle to the recognition of homosexual relations in the context of marriage. However, there is no explicit provision that national legislation should be required to encourage such marriages." And on this basis, it states: "With regard to Article 9 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the Court no longer considers that the right to marriage referred to in Article 12 (of the ECHR) should be restricted in all cases to marriage between persons of the opposite sex. Consequently, it cannot be claimed that Article 12 is inapplicable to the applicants' requests. However, at present, the question of whether or not to allow homosexual marriage is left to the national legislation of the Contracting State. Another point in the same judgment states that the Court considers it artificial to maintain the view that, unlike heterosexual couples, a homosexual couple cannot enjoy family life within the meaning of Article 8. Consequently, the union of the applicants - a same-sex couple living in a stable union of fact - falls within the notion of family life, as well as the union of two persons of different sex who are in the same situation. The Court therefore concludes that the circumstances of the present case fall both within the concept of private life and family life within the meaning of Article 8. Consequently, Articles 8 and 14 of the Convention are applied in conjunction with this provision. The Court comes to this conclusion on the premise that same-sex couples have the same capacity as those of different sex to enter a stable and serious relationship. Therefore, they are in a very similar situation - says the Court - to that of heterosexual couples as regards the need for legal recognition and protection of their relationship. I could cite another case, against Greece on 7 November 2013, in which the Court essentially reiterates what has been said. On the other hand, I would like to focus on the case of Oliari and others against Italy (of 21 July 2015). The judgment states that the Court considers that the need to resort repeatedly to internal courts in order to seek equal treatment in respect of each of the many aspects relating to the rights and duties of a couple, especially in an overwhelmed judicial system such as the Italian one, already constitutes a significant obstacle to the efforts of the applicants to obtain respect for their private and family life. Moreover, the Court considers that, in the absence of marriage, homosexual couples such as the applicants have particular interest in obtaining the possibility of contracting a form of civil union or registered union, since this would be the most appropriate way to have their relationship legally recognised and would guarantee their protection without unnecessary obstacles. In summary, the judgments of the Court cited show that: homosexual unions are protected by Articles 8 and 14 of the Convention; homosexual couples can also be referred in the abstract to Article 12 of the Convention on Marriage, without prejudice to the competence of individual States to legislate in this matter; there is no obligation to extend marriage to homosexual couples, but there is a positive obligation for the legislator to intervene to regulate homosexual unions, with non-discriminatory regulation. The case law cited by the European Court converges with the wishes and warnings of the Italian Constitutional Court (in particular, I refer to judgments no. 138 of 2010 and 170 of 2014). With regard to the case-law of the Court of Justice of Luxembourg - to which I refer only - it must be recalled that in all cases where the Court of Justice has dealt with questions of unequal treatment between marriage and civil unions, it has always considered that there are no reasonable grounds to justify such unequal treatment. In particular, to date, the difference in treatment with regard to taxation, inheritance taxes on the treatment of workers (sickness benefit), pension treatment, with particular regard to access to the survivor's pension, has been considered illegal. I shall now turn to the other subject. It is very important not to be emotional when talking about these issues, and, indeed, I am pleased to have entrusted to written reflections this my thought. With regard to the adoption of the partner's child and the adoption in general, it should be noted that in the case law of the European Court there is no obligation to guarantee the adoption of homosexuals (individuals or couples) but, if adoption is envisaged for singles, this must be guaranteed regardless of sexual orientation. This is stated in particular in a judgment against France of 22 January 2008 (recurrent E.B.). The Court writes that the internal authorities, in order to reject the applicant's application for adoption, made a distinction based on considerations relating to sexual orientation, a distinction which cannot be tolerated under the Convention. There is therefore a violation of the combined provisions of Articles 8 and 14 of the ECHR. Again, if action is allowed for cohabiting couples of different sex, it must also be for same-sex couples. I quote another judgment against Austria (Cases X and Others) of 19 February 2013. The judgment reads as follows: In conclusion, the Court considers that there has been an infringement of Articles 8 and 14 of the Convention, since the applicant's situation is comparable to that of an unmarried heterosexual couple in which one of the partners wishes to adopt the other's child. Moreover, there is always attention to the interest of the child, who must prevail over every other consideration. In the same sense, the Constitutional Court was also directed to the recognition of the filiationis status of incestuous children by judgment No 494 of 2002. In short, the principles that are derived from this are that of non-discrimination of homosexuals and that of the best interest of the child. There have been controversy in recent days, following a message published on Twitter by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and an interview with the ANSA of the Council of Europe's Human Rights Commissioner. Some people have experienced these surgeries as interference. In fact, the Commissioner for Human Rights and the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe have done nothing but recall the case-law of the European Court. I start with the conclusions - moreover, there is the written text - recalling the judgment of Cassazione n. 4184 of 2012. This judgment bears witness to two important things: that the interpretation of the rules can evolve over time and that the innovations introduced by the international jurisprudence of the European Court, if they represent a response to individual cases, cannot fail to affect the legal system of individual States. We are very late on the issues dealt with by the bill n° 2081. We must proceed without prejudice, remembering that, as we read in the judgment of the Constitutional Court that I recalled earlier, the Constitution does not justify a conception of the enemy family of people and their rights. The legal recognition of homosexual couples, with related rights and duties, should therefore be welcomed. Welcome to legislation that keeps separate civil unions and marriages, even if I personally find it out of time. However, we avoid downward mediation that leads to unreasonable and discriminatory solutions. Do not recognize the adoption of the son of the partner of the civil union while judicially it is being recognized for homosexual couples, even before the adoption of the legislation on civil unions, would be discriminatory and above all detrimental to the best interest of the child to the formal recognition of a family bond that already exists in reality. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u29	Senator Fasano is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u30	Madam President, my testimony will be on an issue which, as we all know, is dividing not only Parliament but the whole country. I will make a few very simple and direct points in order to declare my vote against this measure. Personally, without claiming to repeat the constitutional dictation, I would like to reiterate that during the preparatory work of the Constitutional Charter the issue of homosexual unions remained not completely foreign, but very marginal to the debate although it was certainly not unknown to the Constituents, who, drawing up Article 29, took into account an institution that had a precise conformation and an articulated discipline in the civil order. They had in mind the notion of marriage defined by the Civil Code and entered into force in 1942 which established and still establishes that the spouses must be of different sex. This has been confirmed by some judgments of the Supreme Court, but also recently in 2015 by a decision of the Council of State, in which it is stated that marriage between persons of the same sex must be considered incapable, in the current system of rules, of constituting between the parties the legal status proper of the persons married with the rights and obligations connected, precisely because it lacks the inescapable condition of the diversity of sex of the nubendi, which constitutes the essential ontological connotation of the act of marriage. In this sense, Article 29 of the Constitution is clear and refers to marriage in the traditional meaning of that institution. In another judgment of 2010 the Constitutional Court stated that the couple must be of different sex and that the union between persons of the same sex is also a social formation that is not suitable to constitute a family founded on marriage for the indispensable procreative purpose of marriage. And objectively, I believe that, in the debate on the adoption of a new rule, one cannot ignore these important paradigms recalled by the Constitutional Court. More generally, I have to say that I have listened to many speeches in this debate and I would like to recall the valuable one of a colleague, whose name I do not remember, in which everyone's attention was drawn to the fact that the world changes. We realize that none of us live on the moon. The world changes and, luckily, it will change, but I do not think it can change the fact that the family is founded on father and mother. If this were to change too, it would be a world where I would have trouble living. I declare it personally and without emphasis: this is my personal and conscientious conviction, which I represent in this House. There is a bit of confusion and a bit of propaganda about the call to Europe and the fact that Europe is asking us to do so. In fact, I do not understand that there are provisions that transfer the competences of national family law to the European Union. Fundamental family law is the exclusive competence of the Member States. The European Union has a shared competence with that of the Member States, but this does not in any way result in the imposition of measures similar to what we are considering. In my view, there are unacceptable similarities in this measure. This also concerns the symbolism: for the constitution of a civil union it will be necessary to celebrate a rite in front of a civil state officer, in the presence of witnesses and it will become a promise of commitment, as happens in marriage. It will be given, therefore, reading the articles of the civil code, from which will derive the mutual obligation to fidelity, moral and material assistance and cohabitation, as well as in marriage. The spouses may also decide to take on a common surname, will be entitled to a survivor's pension, will enjoy the same patrimonial and succession regime that the Civil Code recognizes to the spouses and, as if that were not enough, the provision provides that all the provisions relating to marriage will also apply lexically, including the words: "marriage-marriage." As far as I am concerned, this is a wrong, unjust and harmful equivalence, since it legally creates new family models. It has previously been said - and it is true - that there are more families and that these realities and new questions that the modern world entrusts to us must also be protected. This does not mean that this must be at the expense of the majority of families, which are recognized in certain values. So, I'm against it, because this will pave the way for a redefinition of the concept of family, which will certainly eventually weaken the real family. To be clear, it will be said that there are many families and it will end up having none. Subsequently, the civil union defined as "specific social formation" will, in my opinion, become a pretext - as has been widely debated - for the adoption of the natural or adoptive son of one of the two partners. This is absolutely unacceptable, both because - as many colleagues have mentioned - it would strengthen the practice of heterologous fertilization and pave the way for the immoral and unacceptable practice of the uterus for rent, as many have said. The promoters, at least some, of this measure claim that they want to have the rights enjoyed by heterosexual couples married to remove unacceptable disparities. This claim, which seems harmless and even fair, in some cases becomes a profoundly unfair claim because it hides an end not only symbolic, but even ideological. In my opinion, it protects only and exclusively the desires of some adults and does not take into account the rights of the little ones, to whom it denies the most natural of this world: that of having for parents a father and a mother. Personally, I do not deny any individual right, which has already been widely recognised in the current legal system, but here we are faced with a real injustice, however unconstitutional because two structurally different cases such as civil unions and marriage are forcibly regulated in the same way. The adoption, even if it were not included or, as we think in these hours, deleted, would not be late to be recognized as legitimate, as unfortunately happened in other States, by the Courts of Justice. Finally, I remind myself that in Italy the practice of the rent of the uterus is forbidden but it is not in other countries and it has already happened that those who have returned from abroad have not been punished by the judges with children in the arms of the uterus for rent. It has already happened and has only been punished the false parental declaration of the little ones so that even on this very delicate aspect indulge in unclear texts is very serious. I therefore confirm my vote against the arguments I have just outlined. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u31	Senator De Poli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in my brief contribution to this debate on the draft law on civil unions which is before Parliament, I would like to draw your attention today to the importance of giving a valuable perspective to the measure we are discussing. Around the debate on this bill many words have been spent. The most recurrent one is: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - But whose rights? Adults. Like adults having a baby. But nobody talks about the rights of the youngest, the children. Perhaps the most debated point of these days, in the context of the discussion of this bill, is precisely what concerns adoptions by same-sex couples. This bill, which was created for the recognition of the rights of individuals and unions between persons of the same sex on the one hand and of de facto cohabitations on the other, has lost its original nature by introducing another right to parenthood, which is absolutely inappropriate and outside the legislative framework we are debating today. With the introduction of adoptions by people of the same sex, or stepchild adoption, this bill has distorted the role of recognition of civil rights of coexistence. Today, therefore, Parliament is called upon to review and decide on the unjustified changes which, by means of this bill, are in danger of undermining the rights of individuals and persons. We must do this even more after the great participation in the event held at the Circus Maximus last Saturday. The square of the Family Day asks us to defend the uniqueness of the family, asks us, and on this point I will return shortly, to respect the dictates provided by our Constitution. The family is an institution that today absolutely cannot be confused with that of civil unions. And I come now briefly to the three nos on the bill Cyrinna: the first no is at the equalization of civil union with marriage. No nominal confusion can be created. To do so would be to degrade the value of the traditional family and marriage that is defended, as we know, by our Constitutional Charter. I believe that it is significant to have defined civil unions as specific social training within the meaning of Article 2 of the Constitution, which reads as follows: The Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man, both as a single person and in the social formations where his personality takes place, and requires the fulfilment of the indispensable duties of political, economic and social solidarity. However, I believe it is essential to strengthen and keep the two institutions apart in order to avoid confusion. The institution of marriage, as Pope Francis recently stated, cannot be confused with other situations, which must also be regulated. It is an orientation in tune with the feeling of the country, which looks to the family as a value to be protected and not to be upset. In this debate, overcoming ideological divisions, I believe it is essential for everyone to have the Constitution as a reference point. The Constitutional Charter must be Parliament's lighthouse in the delicate task of legislative activity. It is undeniable that a great cultural change is taking place in the country. I believe, personally, that in the wake of the great openness on some issues, including on the part of the church, it is good that Italy gives itself a law that must have only and exclusively the objective of removing the discrimination currently existing and not of introducing the right to parenthood. And here I go back to the second no, which is the one to gay adoptions. The contested article is Article 5 which allows to adopt a partner's biological child even to couples formed by persons of the same sex. I quote this legislative reference not by chance, because this makes us understand that this measure has turned into something else. We have moved from the recognition of civil unions to the legislative recognition of the parenthood of persons of the same sex, which is contrary to the principles dictated by the Constitution and by a judgment of the Council, No 138 of April 2010, according to which marriage and family can be attributed exclusively to the union of two persons of the opposite sex. That's why we say no to adoptions. The desires of adults cannot be transformed into rights. The right to parenthood cannot override the right of the child to have a mother and a father. Article 5 opens a dangerous passage, also for the consequent practice of the uterus for rent. Never, in republican history, has a rule been introduced that establishes the right to parenthood without even taking into account the interest of the child. Last week's news is an authoritative opinion expressed by the president of the Italian Society of Pediatricians, Giovanni Corsello (for charity, in a personal capacity): It cannot be excluded that living with two parents of the same sex does not have a negative effect on the processes of psychic and relational development in the evolutionary age. None of us wants to stop this bill which, originally, had an objective (the recognition of the rights of individuals) and, instead, now seems to pursue another one: the recognition, precisely, of the right to parenthood. We do not share this objective. There is a need for profound corrections which, among other things, as I pointed out above, are hoped for by authoritative constitutionalists. I appeal: let us take the opportunity of this debate on such a delicate and divisive subject to modify the bill in these points: by removing the part relating to stepchild adoption and, consequently, to the practice of the uterus for rent; by guaranteeing the rights provided by the Constitution for marriage, strengthening and keeping the two institutions separate (marriage, on the one hand, and civil unions on the other). The rights of children, of the youngest, cannot be subordinated and crushed by the rights of the couple, whatever it may be: heterosexual or homosexual. This House has a duty, in my humble opinion, not to send a homophobic message to the country! Our message is very simple: we put the interests of the child back at the centre. (14.29) (Followed by Mr De Poli). Let's start from here to correct and amend the Civil Unions Bill. Let's put the dignity of the woman back at the center. And here I come to the third point. The third no is to the uterus for rent. As we read in the newspapers, in Paris, not in the other part of the world, but in neighbouring France, in the seat of the National Assembly, the Charter for the universal abolition of surrogacy was launched. It is a document calling for a global ban on the practice of the uterus for rent. Procreation, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be transformed into a market. Beyond the religious and personal convictions of each, I am convinced that behind this sacred battle there is the right of women not to become a market object. Just as a child cannot be surrendered as if it were a thing, the same way a woman's body cannot be bartered, as if it were a commodity. We defend the dignity of women! I am convinced that behind this bill - and I am beginning to conclude - there is a strongly individualistic, extremely selfish and non-Catholic culture. Perhaps it is no coincidence that those who defend this measure often say: let us adapt ourselves to the other countries of the world and Europe! It happens, referring to cultures where the most unbridled individualism brings us back a thousand years. Children cannot be ignored, we do not wreck the family and say the three no to defend their primacy and uniqueness and to guarantee the rights of all children. [[Applause from Senators Romano Lucio and Di Biagio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u33	Senator Manconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u34	Mr President, Senators and Senators, the earlier speech by Senator Lo Moro exempts me from using certain legal arguments and constitutional references that the Senator has been able to use with great punctuality and competence. So I can try a very different line of reasoning. I returned to Parliament, after a long interval of time, in 2013. Already senator in the period between 1994 and 2001, I happened then the lucky opportunity to present one of the very first drafts of law, perhaps the second after that of Senator Alma Cappiello, in the matter of civil unions. I say this because this circumstance allows me to observe with some attention the transformations that have taken place in national society between the mid-nineties and today, the great changes in public opinion and that awareness, today so mature, on the subject in question. However, I can see the reproduction of a recurring risk: the risk is still that of a sort of false representation of a simulated conflict between two fictitious groups, the one that would like exclusive owner - this is the point: exclusive owner - of strong values, of a moral conception and of principles that cannot be renounced or negotiable and, on the contrary, a deployment that would focus entirely on partial, circumscribed, minority interests and, at best, of a summation of minorities. On the one hand, therefore, ethics and, on the other, desire. For a verse, a conception inspired by moral values and, to the contrary, a whole conception of a hedonistic, consumeristic nature, to the rendering of selfish accounts, of life and of social relations. That is the heart of the false representation that risks dominating the public debate, because I think the exact opposite is true. I think that there is and can be a strong moral demand in the demand for civil union. What else is it, if not a moral instance, that motivates a union that relies on reciprocity, mutuality, mutual trust, assistance, projection over time, stability and, finally, conjugality and parenthood? And isn't that perhaps the moral basis for a relationship and a civil union? Is this not a factor that can help strengthen community cohesion and reduce social disorder? This is one of the many reasons why I consider the draft law in question to be essential and to criticize unconditionally the hypothesis that would like the deletion of the chapter on adoptions and amputation, from the bill Cirinna, of that very significant part of it. I believe that those who pursue this hypothesis reveal a sort of economic approach, an approach that proposes an exchange between the material and social guarantees on the one hand and the renunciation of the legal-moral recognition of civil union on the other; an exchange, that is, between property guarantees, social security, hereditary, fiscal, insurance and administrative and a partial and dimidated idea of the homosexual condition. A condition that, according to this approach, would inevitably present itself as a dungeon; a homosexual condition that does not provide for an entire citizen and an entire person, possessing a full dignity, without exceptions and without exceptions, but to the opposite presupposes a homosexual condition reduced to its social and material dimension and therefore deprived of those requirements and rights that constitute the proper trait of the uniqueness of the human personality and of its irreprehensibility. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That is the crucial point; I believe that this is the crux that we must consider and the point on which we must reflect and commit ourselves. If we do not consider this essential trait of human personality, which translates into a question and a right to affection and emotional fullness, sexuality and feeling, parenthood and conjugality and that piece of shared happiness that is allowed to us, that piece so limited and graceful that we are allowed in our world, we will still feed the idea of a dimidated homosexual. And that is precisely what we cannot allow with a legal provision; we must work exactly in the opposite direction. That is why the deletion would not only mean accepting this reduction of the homosexual to his social and material dimension (sacred, legitimate and to be protected through adequate, obviously essential rights); but equally inevitably such an approach would reduce the civil union to a mere private contract and therefore neutralize it of all its moral content, which is then what constitutes the heart of the demand for civil union as it has manifested itself in recent years. That is, if we consider all this, we will realize that the public debate in progress is, of course, a great cultural and political debate that recalls moral dilemmas and visions of the world, but it is in the first place, first and foremost, a great theme of equality and equal dignity. And what may appear to be a problem of a few, something that statistically affects some thousands of people, turns out to be a question of freedom for all. We are then faced with a classic controversy: that of the right to have rights, that is, the very foundation of the idea of democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]] Mr President, I ask that I be able to attach my written speech to the Reports of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u35	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to begin by pointing out to the House a paradox: many times, almost always, during the parliamentary term, the Government and the parties have seized the will and the possibility of voting in this Parliament, in this House by imposing on them by various methods - I will not repeat them because you know them very well - their views. Not this time: this time Government and parties say to this Senate, that in a few months it will not be so, and to the senators: do it yourself, decide the fate of the law on civil unions, decide whether or not the partner should have the power to adopt the son of the partner or of the homosexual companion. It is a paradox, no doubt, but in the face of a question of conscience and ethics it is said that we must leave freedom of conscience. However, if we continue in the analysis, we must frankly tell ourselves that this is the consequence of a transformation of the debate on the Cirinna law into something else: not a debate about a measure that wants to extend to homosexual couples rights that are already married couples, heterosexual; that also wants to guarantee the son of a homosexual, who lives with a partner of the same sex, to be able to say at school I have two parents and to be able to explain that the person who is accompanying him is not a stranger, but is the other dad or the other mom, in a family that loves him like the dad or like the natural mom. This was the intent of the Cirinna law. But we are not talking about this, not about the enlargement of rights: we are talking about the substantive issue and, that is, about the family. The patriarchal family is in crisis and it could be demonstrated in a few words. I think even Senator Giovanardi knows that the patriarchal family is in crisis all over the world. On the other hand - you know - that kind of family that you find in the Bible works if there is an inheritance to be passed on, it was also a roof under which to shelter, or two sheep that pass from father to son. But when one goes to a mass proletarianization of the middle classes, as is happening in the West, that role of the family objectively changes. The emotional and cultural components, the commitment to the education of children become much more important than the transmission of the inheritance, which is passed on to someone who is your property, having the genes and the biological heritage of your father, your grandfather, your great-grandfather who in turn transferred their properties to you. This crisis is everywhere in the world, but it is not up to us, it is not up to this House to say what the family of the future will be. It is not up to this House to say whether we will evolve towards other forms of coexistence in the future. While that's what you're talking about in the papers. And if you ask the people who follow distractedly - as is natural - our debate, they will tell you that we are talking about this. I met a Sephardic Jewish friend who told me that she agreed very much on the rights of homosexuals, who must have the same rights as others, but added: Attention, the son manufactured is something I'm worried about. And it doesn't bother me, too? The manipulations of the human species don't bother me, too? I come from a liberal and Marxist tradition - it seems like an oxymoron to you, but it is not - in which I happened to discuss almost fifty years ago (nearly forty-five years ago) of a group of intellectuals who lived in Paris, who thought that the nature of man - who changes over time, but very slowly - could be changed by a voluntary action. Scary troubles have come out. Some of these intellectuals have tried their theories in Cambodia, where Pol Pot and others were, and you know what a disaster came out. I am immune to the idea that you can kick the story and change of human nature or man's relationship with nature and, therefore, I have my doubts about the type of family that will be in the future. I would ask - and ask, for example - a homosexual friend why he wants to pass on to his son the rights and merits of his family of origin, rather than living and caring as a son one who has the merits and the rights of an African tribe or of an unlucky Italian history for which he was abandoned in an institution. My homosexual friend (or friend) would tell me that they don't let him adopt him, and he would be quite right about that. However, I have a problem with the fact that the new family must necessarily be marked by a biological relationship with the children. I am the father of four youngsters who I love regardless of the biological heritage that I sometimes recognize or believe to recognize in their faces or behavior and, therefore, I have positions that could allow a frank, interesting, cultural, philosophical debate, with some objections that from the Catholic world (to speak of that world) come to our thesis or to those that are today in the cultural political debate of the country. But the point is another, and it is that here we are discussing not this, but - as Senator Lo Moro said very well - rights. And, therefore, I tell you that a sentence of the American Supreme Court, which certainly with a strongly right-wing majority does not give for death the patriarchal family, does not ignore that there are millions of fundamentalist Christians in the United States and does not close the door to their feeling, to their culture and, therefore, does not impose a model of family or parenthood on them, states that rights are something else and cannot be denied. In this regard, I would like to say to some of my colleagues on the right, even refined, who, however, betray their very origin - I am thinking of my colleague, Mr Malan, who is of Waldensian origin, and I am well aware of the positions of many Italian Waldensians in this regard - that rights evolve over time and are the result of contracts. The right that derives from God is something that ended with the great revolution of 1789. Right is the result of a free contract concluded by citizens, which takes into account the slow evolution of man's relationship with nature - man changes nature, profoundly changes it - of man's humanity, of his process of humanization, of the relationships that man builds with other individuals and - if you like, with a Marxist digression - of the process of identifying the individual who frees the human who is in man or the divine who is in man. That is the basic question. The point is if you can deny people rights. I don't think so. If two people love each other, they live under the same roof, they support each other, as we do to tell them: Do you not have the same rights as a married couple? How do we deny them these rights? If a child is a natural child of a homosexual living with his partner, how can we tell that child: No, we don't recognize your situation. You must be ashamed to live in this condition, are you a pariah? This is the question of the Cirinna law. We fell into this mess for our opportunism. If we had the courage to call this law not civil unions, but marriage, as the Americans and the French do, it would probably have been better understood that we were talking about a right and not about a social and cultural change that we cannot improvise. We were not even talking about values, as we pretend to believe in our political debate. If we had avoided those Byzantineisms - I followed the work in the Commission, where we talked about specific social training: but what does that mean? - we would probably have avoided the end of ethical substantiveism, which is not what we want and which prevents the debate between us. If we hadn't talked about stepchild adoption, but we simply said: gentlemen, there are children who already live this condition today, what do we want to do about them? Do we want to treat them as equals or do we want to give them the same rights as their schoolmates? Perhaps we would have avoided the expiry of such a dimension. I would like to say that Italian society is not divided on rights. It is clear that, if we give a false representation of the issues we are discussing, divisions and concerns emerge, but, as I said, they emerge in many of us, they are cross-cutting to all parties and all political forces and we should face them with a serene and serious ideal, cultural and political debate. As far as the proposed Cirinna law is concerned, I will of course vote in favour of it, also because of the possibility of adoption by the homosexual partner of his partner's natural son or partner. This, in fact, is the same issue - please read them, they are six lines - which was dealt with by the Supreme Court of the United States and was resolved exactly as it had to be resolved, as a pure question of law. If we, being implored in a substantive, hypocritical discussion, deny the rights of people, we will be condemned by public opinion, when, after the hangover, we realize what the game was at stake. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senator Lo Giudice]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u38	Senator Puglisi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall begin to vote on a measure which has been awaited for many years and which has opened a great debate in the country and which gives us a great responsibility. The law on civil unions between people of the same sex is a step that thousands of people have been waiting for for too many years. It is the law that is lacking in order to realize definitively Article 3 of the Constitution, the most beautiful: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions." And if there is no equality, as Senator Cirinna recalled at the beginning of this debate, there is discrimination. Our task as legislators is to ensure that all citizens of this country are fully recognised by the State, whatever their sexual orientation. If your love relationship is fully recognized in the rights and duties of your country, you are also stronger against the violence of those who would like to cancel or hurt you, homophobic bullying and homophobia. We, voting on this measure, two and a half years after Andrea Spezzacatena's suicide, the boy with pink pants, can bring him back to school, as Mom wrote in a heartbreaking letter. I reject the simplification that the division in this Chamber is between lay people and Catholics. I feel no less catholic than those who oppose article 5 of this bill. The country was split in two also on the occasion of the law on abortion and divorce. But even then Catholic legislators who would never have an abortion or divorced allowed them not to limit individual freedoms, making our country take a step forward. Even on those occasions the prophets of terrible misfortunes were not lacking. During the debate on the law on divorce, from the columns of the "Corriere della Sera" arrived the Geremiads of some moralist intransigents: The writers will be persecuted, the intellectuals dispersed in the prisons and in the manichomas (...) the borders will be open to Soviet tanks. None of this has happened, as we know. Let's avoid, as Emma Bonino said, that I wouldn't do it then you don't have to do it. We have remained the only country in Europe not to regulate unions between people of the same sex and not to protect their children by recognizing to both the members of the union the same parental responsibilities. From Ireland to Spain, deeply Catholic countries, the extension of rights to same-sex couples, even through equalitarian marriage, has brought no harm to traditional families. Giving rights to those who have not done so today does not remove any right to heterosexual families, to whom this Government is giving back resources that the right had cut: from the baby bonus to the 600 million of the law of stability for families with children in poverty, from the fund for non self-sufficiency to the 100 million for the educational poverty of children and girls. Much is being done for the families of this country. But I come to the subject on which our debate has focused: the adoption of the partner's son governed by Article 5. It's said to open up to surrogacy. It's not true. It's forbidden. But, in the absence of this measure, there are still those who resort to gestation for others abroad: 84 percent are heterosexual couples. By not approving Article 5 of this bill, nothing would change compared to the use of pregnancy abroad for others. We would simply leave children of same-sex couples unprotected. There are children who are children of lesbian couples born through assisted fertilization or children of previous heterosexual unions. In this House we have listened to everything, from horrendous comparisons with GMOs to phrases such as: "Children need a mom and a dad, because it's the mom who gives caress, but if there's a problem to solve... eh, we need a dad! This provision calls into question each one of us, our consciences and our responsibility. It is up to us to decide tomorrow whether children and children who grow up in our country with two parents of the same sex can have the same rights as others, seeing the same parental responsibilities recognized to both parents with a passage in front of the judge for special adoption; or if you think you want to discriminate against children on the basis of the sexual orientation of those who generated them or helped to do so; or again, if this Parliament does not feel like taking this responsibility and wants to delegate it to the Government - as you know, to our President-in-Office of the Council the courage is not lacking - but then no one crys anymore claiming that the Government decides on its own and humiliates Parliament. And again, if we don't decide, the courts will do it. Three judgments are ready for the Constitutional Court to safeguard the equality of minors in the face of Parliament's inertia. The court of minors of Bologna and the court of appeal of Milan ask the Court to verify the constitutional legitimacy of our law on adoptions - other than vices of constitutionality of the bill Cirinna! - which does not permit the recognition in Italy of the foreign judgment on the adoption of a child in favour of the spouse of the same-sex parent. The court is in fact prevented by Law No 184 to verify the true best interests of the child, in clear violation of any principle guaranteed by the European Court of Human Rights to respect family life and the rights of children and girls. I am against the deletion and allow me to explain why, Mr President. The recognition of children's rights cannot wait any longer and, as a matter of fact, the proposal that refers to a delegation to the Government on the reform of adoptions comes from those who, a short time ago, have been against even the possibility that single people who have had a child in foster care for years, if they become adopted, can resort to adoption. Senator Giovanardi clearly said the reason: he was afraid that a gay or a lesbian would hide behind that single woman. The uterus for rent here, then it has nothing to do with it. It has to do with prejudice, which must have also had the President of the Italian Society of Pediatricians and, immediately contradicted by colleagues of the Italian Federation of Pediatric Doctors. A pediatrician must explain to me whether the child in the flesh in front of him, who grows up with two people of the same sex, is no longer serene if he has two parents who share the same parental responsibilities or if, instead, it is better to tell him clearly and roundly that the other is a limited responsibility. If he goes to the hospital, he doesn't have to be able to assist him. It must be explained to me whether a teenager does not grow better if the State recognizes him as a citizen whatever his sexual orientation is. This is the responsibility that we take by voting on this measure: to make all citizens equal, equally recognized in their capacity to love, equally free and happy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cardiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u40	Mr President, Senators and Senators, Members of the Government present in this House, for a moment I would like to focus on the political role that each of us has in this House and on what we should say and do. I wanted to refrain from talking about some colleagues I heard this morning evoke even concentration camps or others that from a right-wing side have switched to a left-wing side, also changing the values of life and the family. For a moment I would like to evoke our values. Mr President, I am a right-wing man. I come from the old Italian Social Movement and from a not radical right, but from confrontation with the then Italian Communist Party. I remember that in the universities, when he was enrolled in jurisprudence in Salerno, there was an ongoing clash between the children of the right and those of the left on values. We, together with Catholics, said no to divorce, free drugs and abortion. On the other hand, in the classrooms of the universities a confrontation was harsh, tight and, at times, excessive aimed at promoting the primacy of some values over others. When Members in this House stand in favour of or against the rights of people, then they must also account for and make a self-analysis of what they have done in this House and what they will do for the future. And I'm talking about the chosen ones with the center-right and then the center-left. I would like to know whether they would have voted for this measure by staying in the centre-right. The real problem is a serious confrontation. I am firmly opposed to the approach of this bill because, as a father and Catholic believer, I think that the family is one, the one between man and woman. I am a lawyer and in courtrooms, when there is a separation or divorce, the president of the court or the investigating judge in the first phase assigns minors, especially small children, 90% to mothers. A few colleagues earlier said that children can also grow up without a mother. But if there is a primacy in the assignment by the magistrates of children to mothers, it means that there is something different between man and woman. Evidently the woman - and it is the truth - manages to grow, to give a sense of serenity, of education and even of cleanliness. We men are different from women, and we have to admit it. I remain convinced of what my parents have instilled in me in the past. The family is made by a man and a woman. It is true: Strasbourg, as well as the Constitutional Court, have asked the Italian Parliament to regulate homosexual unions. But let us stress this immediately: this Senate cannot at all be emptied of competence. We Members of Parliament must reaffirm our freedom to find the right regulation. The Italian legislator has a wide range of possibilities to regulate these unions, which rightly demand protection. From the judgment of July 2015 you can not deduce a compulsory mode and, therefore, it is not said that the bill Cirinna is the correct choice. On the contrary, MEPs must take into account the judgment No 138 of 2010, again of the Constitutional Court. Without this jurisprudential reference it is useless to climb the mirrors, as some colleagues of the majority have done. It is essential, in fact, to underline how the Court has established that homosexual unions cannot be considered homogeneous to marriage, referring to Article 29 of our Constitutional Charter, which recognizes the rights of the family as a natural society founded on marriage. As a result, this measure, as it is written, does not respect the stakes set by the Constitutional Court, which I have just mentioned. The law can only be read in one way: as it is written, it equates homosexual unions with the family. There is no other way of understanding it, unless you want to tell people something deceptive. Mrs Cirinna would not want to change anything about her text, because she is a person consistent with her idea and I respect her, but I absolutely do not agree with the intention to equate civil unions with the family. From what emerges, however, I have the impression that someone inside the PD is pushing to take a few steps back, at least from a nominal point of view, to avoid constitutional censorship. Perhaps you will understand that 70 percent of the population is composed of those who do not want this law and, therefore, it is better to be less brazen and try to put some pieces. So you're trying to hold meetings, so you don't look bad with the secret vote. During these years of parliamentary experience I have learned that criticism, however, must follow a proposal, to be at least credible. By guaranteeing - for example - individual rights, people who have a stable social relationship can be protected, but cannot be treated as a family. They are two completely different things, while the bill in question regulates these relationships as if they constituted a family, thus violating the Constitution. Therefore, this measure should be put back to the competent Commission and reworded, but you intend to go all the way, because your master, Renzi, said that it must be approved without amendment. It is said that we do not accept lessons from our European friends: well if the President-in-Office continues to say that not everything that is said in Strasbourg is binding, why does the bill take an example from our European friends? The unions in question are not a family, but unions that have different characteristics. In the draft law we talk about specific social training to hide the legal reality, but this attempt is not enough. You appeal by saying that times have changed, ignoring that on 30 January last in Rome two million people testified that the times, for them, have not changed; ordinary people, arrived in the square to defend the natural family, the one described in our Constitutional Charter. We must, therefore, show that times have changed and that is not enough to say. How can one read and interpret the Constitution according to the historical period? So let us put it this way: if Parliament has the strength to show that the times have changed, it has the courage to amend the Constitution, because it considers it inadequate to the social, historical and cultural context of today. I repeat, from a legal point of view, the Constitution says something specific about the family. Violating it would be like a coup d'état, not without political consequences, and then we'll talk about it. Then I come to Article 5 on adoptions, which is the most contested rule. I immediately say that there are so many good, competent and loving people who can take care of children. This is not the problem, but education is exercised in an ordinary way, through the presence of a dual figure: male and female. Children have always been raised and educated in a relationship between man and woman. Some aspects of the baby's formation need certain feminine characteristics and others of male characteristics. It was Sigmund Freud, author not properly Catholic, who highlighted the fundamental aspects of a man and a woman transferred to the child. The law, therefore, must regulate situations of a general nature, which apply to the entire company and not to some clubs. Put yourself in the shoes of an adopted child, and reflect on that feeling that then, over time, becomes an unanswered question, that is, to understand who was actually the mother or father at the time of birth. No one, and I say no one, can take that feeling off her. It stays, even if it seems over, and that question comes back when you least expect it to keep you company. Not even the love of a wonderful adoptive mom and dad can fill that small, fragile sense of abandonment you have inside, and I dare not imagine two men or two women. Adoption is not a game, dear colleague Cirinna. It's serious stuff. The foster son, knowing his story, as it went, knows he has a wound. But imagine for a moment those children who come from mothers who sold their uterus. What internal fragility could they have? Dear adoptive or almost adoptive parents, you may not tell the truth to an adopted child; if maybe, then, it is of your own skin color, you can manage it because it looks like you, but in that child there will always be, and I always say, something strange, a small tarlo, a piece that will never match and the wound will come back to the surface: the wound of not being able to have been even for five minutes in the arms of the woman who held you in the womb and could not feel near you that heartbeat that marked the time for nine months. They call it a rented uterus, perhaps because they want to create a certain surreal distance between mother and son and obviously in words, because in the reality of the facts this bond will determine forever the life and history of each. Do you understand how the matter is too delicate to dehub it as a measure intended by Strasbourg? It is a choice that could change, in negative, our history, our culture, our society; a choice that will inevitably and politically weigh on this Government, because the majority that will come out of it will not reflect in any way, despite the alchemies of the last few weeks, the vote of the people. Dear colleagues from the centre and Catholic forces present in this House, then I will not be the one to tell you what to do, but I very much hope that you will have a great deal of dignity and consistency. It will not be easy to come up with this, but, all together, we can give a signal of great political freedom against this bill. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to clear out a misunderstanding: we are not discussing civil unions as they are understood by common sense. We are not discussing the recognition of rights of mutual assistance and solidarity to cohabitants regardless of the sexual nature of their cohabitation. Above all, we are not discussing a measure aimed at establishing a condition of equality between Italian citizens regardless of their sexual choices. If that were the case, Mr President, in addition to equality, this law would have to do with freedom. With the freedom to choose without having for this reason less personal rights than those who have made different choices from mine. With the freedom to choose without the State entering my bedroom to determine what my rights are and which are not; whether I can contract a civil union or should I restrict myself to entering into a contract, or if I have no access to any of this. It would have to do with the secular freedom to choose without claiming that my choice involves the right to contradict nature, to compress the rights of the weakest, to commercialize the body and dignity of others. Let's get out of hypocrisy! We emerge from the hypocrisy of a law that hypocritically introduces a surrogate marriage for homosexual couples from which heterosexual cohabitants are excluded, and gives them the right to become parents that forces and contradicts the nature and, going beyond what is possible by nature, encourages in fact the surrogate gestation. "It's modernity, beauty!", we are told. And we are told that those who oppose this law, as Senator Cirinna said in the speech that opened this debate, are retrograde and obscurantist. A bit like when - I quote Pier Paolo Pasolini - being unconditionally abortionists guaranteed to those who were a license of rationality, enlightenment, modernity. I believe that things are less simple than what Mrs Cirinna would like to say. Not just because history doesn't always evolve in a straight line. Even more because the challenge that this parliamentary issue in some way embodies, actually represents the very heart of the great dichotomy of the 21st century, between the most authentic secularism embodied by popular sentiment and the false secularism of the enlightened elites. It is inscribed in a public space in which the void left by traditional ideologies risks being occupied by a unique, conformistic and dominant thought that anti-conformist intellectuals of whom we feel today a great nostalgia, such as Pier Paolo Pasolini and Augusto Del Noce, described as mass radicalism. This evolution, assuming that one can speak of evolution (which I personally do not believe), also makes us understand the new role played by religion in a country traditionally Catholic like ours. And it helps us to better understand what is at the bottom of that square called Family Day, made up of people all different, but all irregular, who found themselves on the same day and in the same place, mostly without the guidance of organized structures nor the call of pre-constituted words of order, and who thus gave rise to one of the most imposing manifestations that the history of Italy remembers. The dynamics that that square today proposes Pasolini had already understood almost half a century ago, as evidenced by his reflection of 1973: The previous ideology wanted and imposed by power was, as we know, religion: and Catholicism, in fact, was formally the only cultural phenomenon that approved Italians. Now it has become a competitor to that new cultural phenomenon homologating that is mass hedonism: and, as a competitor, the new power has already begun to liquidate it for a few years. Fifty years have passed and the liquidation has had the time and the way of completion. What was then hegemony today is minority and it is paradoxically found to interpret an opposition to hegemony thought, as such politically incorrect and, therefore, able to embody an irregular passion for freedom. That square, however, overturned the paradigm. And just as it happened on the occasion of the divorce law, even if inverted parts, it could find itself incarnating the majority wave of common sense, in the country, outside of these classrooms. To this homologating drift, for which every wish must correspond a right - Pasolini would have called it a context of false tolerance and false secularism: of false realization, that is, of civil rights - can it be limited to opposing the strength of a tradition? Can we just say that the different roles of the father and mother, or the obligation not to run the risk that the woman may degrade to merely a reproduction tool, are essential cornerstones for the mere fact that they have been sedimented and handed down over the years, centuries and sometimes millennia? I have much respect for what resists the passing of time, but I do not believe that tradition alone is enough to legitimize a value. Over time, infamous things have also been handed down that do not deserve to be preserved. It is the value that establishes a tradition, not vice versa. And today, in this House, we are obviously talking not about progress against conservation, but about opposing values. Because defending a child's right to have different sex parents is a value to us. Because for us to oppose the womb for rent, whether it is homosexual or heterosexual, it is a value. Because for us to insist on personal responsibility in place of codification of positive rights is a value. Some of these values, moreover, have been transposed and carved into our Constitution, and that is why, from any view, you look at it - as we have shown in the illustration of the prejudices - the bill Cirinna is in insane contrast to our fundamental Charter. It is therefore on the ground of values that opposition to this law is based. In spite of what one would like to make believe, the fact that a person must be free and made free in his sexual choices, the fact that from an affectivity that produces a prolonged coexistence must derive rights, is an indisputable fact and that no one has ever questioned. Dissension arises when from this ground one passes to the forcing of the natural element aimed at the creation of the new man, the ultimate end of all perfectionism, the root of all totalitarianism, consequence of the fatal presumption of having to realize a supremely rational order. If in the twentieth century this presumption was expressed essentially in the economic field, today its field of application is above all the anthropological one. And it is there that the dimension of modernity and that of backwardness are improperly opposed: everything that is opposed to the forced predetermination of life, its unpredictability and its wonder would be "modern" what instead leads to planning one's own existence claiming that in its course every desire can be realized. Translated into the terms of the issue we are discussing, there is no freedom and there is no secularism in claiming to force what is given by nature. Let us clear the field from the claim of a parenthood that cannot exist and that can not be the object of law, let us clear the field from a false and illiberal secularism that imposes the desires of one on the rights of the weaker, and we could discuss secularly how to fully assure every man the exercise of his freedom. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this false contrast between backwardness and modernity actually reflects two different visions of man, his essence and his freedom. And it is a challenge that must be met, because it dramatically embodies the conflict of this new century. He always wrote Pasolini [[Comments of the Undersecretary Scalfarotto]] that in Republican Italy, in reality, a great right never existed. For it to be born, one cannot avoid proposing an anthropological vision alternative to the dominant one, and doing so without hesitation and without inferiority complexes. This is the ground on which the new political and cultural conflict will be played. And it is on this ground that an alternative to mass radicalism can be born, able to respect the opinions of its opponents but also to contrast to them a different vision of the world. It was the great bet of this legislature: to find ourselves on common rules in order then to be able to contrast strong and strongly alternative values. Much more than the molasses imbued with small cunnings with which a government agreement that should have been of emergency and circumscribed is dragged beyond its perimeter and beyond its physiological time. Colleagues of the New Right Center, I say this without recriminations and without animosity: it is possible to make an agreement between different thoughts but equally strong and aware of one's mutual difference. But when one has to deal with a weak thought, and bullying because he is aware of his own weakness, as allies one becomes succubus. Our "no" to this law, therefore, is a "no" without compromises not for radicalism and even less for fanaticism, but because in our country there is a desperate need for those who give body and substance to a more liberal, more Christian and therefore more scandalously subversive vision than the unique dominant thought that this law embodies to "perfection." [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u43	She is registered to speak Senator Maturani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u44	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in favour of the text of the Cirinna bill, which is the result of a long and thorough work which, over the years, has been the subject of many modifications, aimed at gathering the widest participation and sharing. The debate that has taken place in this House over the past few days has clearly shown that this measure has the primary aim of providing rights for those who do not have rights in our country today. These rights include the fundamental rights of children and girls. It is a matter of recognizing children and children, who are not a desire, but who are among us, who attend kindergartens, schools, parks and who play with our children and grandchildren, the right to continuity and emotional stability and the priority interest of their lives. We must look with a soul free from prejudices to those countries where the one in our examination is an undisputed reality for a long time and where social upheavals of any kind have not been produced. Italy is a strange country, a country in which access to rights is guaranteed by jurisprudence rather than politics. The Court of Strasbourg told us this summer, when it condemned Italy for the inertia in relation to relations between persons of the same sex, for having deprived them of legal protection and forced to an endless pilgrimage between the various ordinary courts of our country, in a system in which - often we do not remember - the previous case law is not binding. Before Strasbourg, the Court of Cassation had already repeatedly ruled and, not least, the Constitutional Court, which had urged the Italian legislator to intervene since 2010. The issue of the recognition of the rights of same-sex couples is not new to the parliamentary classrooms, already in the 2006 legislature we tried to put our hands on the subject, with the results that we all see today. Italy is the country of law 40, a horrible law, of which Italian and European jurisprudence have shredded, once and for all sanctioning the inability of the political ruling class to take inclusive decisions out of an exasperated ethical bipolarism. Today we have a new opportunity. What Senator Cirinna has deposited is a bill that represents a compromise, of course; but we can say that it is a good compromise. These are undoubtedly issues of strong social impact, and we cannot remain indifferent to them. Those in question are certainly sensitive subjects, which involve not only law, but also morals, ethics and common thought. Precisely for this reason, I am of the idea that Italy should not miss the opportunity to adapt to the social demand, recognizing, as already widely done, other laws, rights and duties to couples in fact and especially homosexual ones. On the other hand, the approach of the legislation on the family, in its original drafting, did not include divorce: if it had been an untouchable paradigm, a totem, we would certainly not have had the reform of family law. Our Parliament is faced with an important test of civilisation and respect for the evolution of society and the principle of equality; a compromise as I said, but a good compromise. Of course, in order to do this the establishment of the law must hold and one cannot think of doing without the most significant points of this bill, that is, the power to adopt the partner's biological child and the recognition of the survivor, which, as finally clarified by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, enjoys an adequate financial coverage. Otherwise, not only would we approve a law with macroscopic defects of constitutionality, but we would end up replicating the disastrous experience of Law No. 40 of 2004; only that to be dismantled piece by piece would be a law that would bring our signature (and I do not want to put it, this signature). Our political class is now at a crossroads. The time of decisions can no longer be postponed and it is no longer acceptable for our vacuum to be filled by case law. We need our shot, we need the strength to ferry Italy in a new time, all the more so in a legislature that has called us to redefine the scaffolding of this State; to think of doing so without going through the path of the recognition of rights, from the construction of an inclusive public space, where they can find full citizenship the differences all, would sanction the umpteenth defeat of an entire ruling class: ours. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u45	Senator Formigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u46	Mr President, I would like to begin by saying clearly that if the content of this draft law were consistent with the title, which refers to civil unions between persons of the same sex and the discipline of cohabitation, I would be here today, and I believe with many others, to intervene in favour of such a bill. In fact, both myself and my Group are entirely in favour of the full recognition of the rights of each person, whatever sexual orientation or the type of coexistence that this person chooses to have or put in the field, without any discrimination and with the full respect that is owed to each person, each bearer of a great identity, which has the stigma of the divine - in our view - and which can never be limited, summed up in an aspect of his life choices. Full recognition of the rights discussed in the public debate during these weeks, because they are trampled on: recognition of mutual assistance, assistance in all situations of difficulty, the right to take over contracts of various kinds, property rights and hereditary rights. On these issues, my party and I have always been prepared to vote in favour. The People's Area has also presented an autonomous bill that goes in this direction and several amendments to this draft law that we will propose and explain during the debate. Unfortunately, my premise is denied by the reading of the article, which is in total discontinuity and contradiction with the title, and this makes the bill totally unacceptable to us. Mrs Cirinna's proposal speaks of unions, but in reality it introduces homosexual marriage into Italian law. There is no difference between the discipline of marriage of a man and a woman and the discipline of civil unions according to this bill. This is the reality that no hypothetical description can erase; only the name changes, but the substance is identical. All the norms of the Civil Code and the special laws that refer to marriage are transferred as such to civil unions. This is unacceptable to us, but also - and you know it - to the majority of the Italian people who, as all the polls report, say yes to the rights of homosexual cohabitants and not to gay marriages. Of course, people try to tell the public that the difference between the two institutions would be inherent in their different constitutional foundation, but it is a deception. The rules laid down in the draft law in question are exactly the same as those laid down in Article 29 and not in Article 2 of the Constitution. I recall briefly that, for both marriages and civil unions provided for by the bill in question, nullities and impediments are the same; identical are the forms of the celebration that takes place in the presence of the civil state officer and two witnesses; identical is the faculty to assume the same surname. The effects of marriage and civil union are identical, so much so that Article 3 of the bill expressly recalls all the norms relating to heterosexual spouses. The succession regime for the spouse is extended, without exception, to the partner of the civil union; the rules of divorce and separation are also fully extended to civil unions. On these points we have repeatedly invoked the path of reasonableness, starting with the analysis of the constitutional prejudices we have raised, not with obstructive intentions, but with the aim of preventing a future ruling by the Court which, if there are no significant amendments, seems to me completely obvious. I would like to point out, in this case too, that the whole measure is contrary to the Constitution, which is strongly opposed to Articles 29 and 31; there is a clear violation of Article 3, where different social training is assimilated to the family regime, whereas the legislator's task is to treat equal situations in a different way and in a different way. Another point of illegality is related to the double track built by the provision for homosexual and heterosexual couples. In this case we have come to a form of indirect discrimination of straight couples. If homosexual civil unions are a social formation, aren't heterosexual couples also? When the Constitution recalls the social formations and rights of homosexual or heterosexual members, it accuses itself of the discrimination that is proper to this bill, namely a treatment for homosexual civil unions and a completely different treatment for heterosexual couples. Finally, contrary to my previous colleague, I believe that Article 81 of the Constitution is manifestly infringed, because the budgetary coverage provided for is completely inadequate. It is clear that the burden of reversibility in the case of retirement cannot be estimated only in the presence of young homosexual couples, as has been done, but must be estimated over a long-term period (at least thirty years), when the question of a much higher number of reverssibility pensions to be provided will be raised. For all this I am convinced that the Court, as it has already done in the recent past, can only intervene to reaffirm the non-homologability of marriage with other social formations. I would like to point out, for accidents, that there is another subject on which the Court will be able to intervene, and that is what our and other Groups have pointed out in the suspensive matters that have been rejected by this House. It is clear to everyone that the procedure we are following is not that provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, nor in the Constitution. It is an incorrect procedure which cannot but be sanctioned by the Court, just as it happened for the declaration of inconstitutionality of the Fini-Giovanardi law. That is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on these points that I wanted to outline our Group's proposal, it is clear and clear and I come back to the point that it appeals to reason. The invitation is to purify the text of the bill from all those improper references that make it surreptitiously identical to heterosexual marriage; so we will have a good law, that does not break the country, that in many - perhaps all - we can vote and that recognizes more rights to people in social formations. Which, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly what Europe is asking of us: a law on homosexual cohabitations, not the recognition of marriages. I now consider another aspect which I consider to be critical of the measure, namely the adoptions and, in particular, the stepchild adoption dealt with in Article 5 but already provided for in the previous articles. First of all, I would like to stress a fact that has not been mentioned in the debate so far: the child of the biological father or the biological mother is not destined at all to remain alone and unprotected: as early as 1983, Article 44 (a) of Law 184 provides that in the event of the death of the biological parent, those who have had a lifelong habit with that child can proceed to adoption. We do not, therefore, attribute to the rule provided for in Article 5 alleged salvific aspects that are already present in our legal system. Let us also remember that we are talking about a number of children currently in charge of homosexual couples not equal to the 100,000 of which is fabulous, but, according to ISTAT data, 528. These are 528 people, 528 children to whom all rights must be clearly guaranteed. I believe that the examination of existing laws shows how these guarantees already exist, but I say with equal firmness that, if we want to foresee their rights in an even more compelling form, we are ready to do so: children who are already there must have equal rights, like everyone else. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us not hide in various forms of hypocrisy: stepchild adoption is a whole other thing, as is evident to those who look at reality. Who's the partner's stepson? For a male homosexual couple the cases are two and only two: either the stepson was born from a previous marriage or heterosexual relationship of one of the members of the homosexual couple (and then this child already has the two parents and it is not possible to invent a third of them) and is defended and protected by the laws that I have remembered, or there is only one other way in which two males can have a child, unable to conceive it, nor to give birth to it alone, and this way is to rent a woman's uterus by entrusting her with the seed of one of the two males so that she gives birth to a child who will be torn immediately. I am going back to saying: the intention of the bill, although denied in words, seems to be aimed at allowing this practice, which we want to call it, however, is and remains a barbaric, inhuman practice. We can call surrogate motherhood, which is managed by others: it is always and in any case a rented womb, a practice strongly condemned by all European states, against which the words of the European Parliament in the resolution of 2011 are without escape: Member States are asked to recognize the serious problem of maternity surrogacy, which constitutes an exploitation of the female body and reproductive organs; it is noted that women and children are subject to the same forms of exploitation and are considered goods on the international market. Very clear and very heavy words; other than to say "C" Europe demands it! Well, Minister Lorenzin called it "ultraprostitution." On the other hand, the uterus for rent is the indispensable premise, without which there would be no stepchild adoption and we must thank here the brutal clarity of Senator Lo Giudice, who made evident to everyone with his story what was already clear: two homosexual males can have a child only by buying it from a woman. On the other hand, this practice of which Italian laws also prevent all forms of advertising, is now easily accessible. There are websites and printed catalogues that explain to anyone the simple ways in which you can buy a child, with prices ranging from 50,000 euros up. Let us not forget that this practice also includes the cruel condition that the mother that generates the child should be torn immediately after the birth. I can object - as has been done - that the uterus for rent is excluded from the Italian law in force and the bill does not mention it: Senator Cirinna repeated it several times. I want to take this seriously, colleague Cirinna. Colleagues of the PD, if your opposition to the uterus for rent is true - and I would like to believe it - join us in voting on the amendment that provides that the uterus for rent (practice used both by homosexuals and heterosexuals) is declared universal crime, i.e. punishable for every Italian citizen even when committed abroad. Starting with the conclusion, I address my colleagues in the Democratic Party, because the bill is their initiative and because they are the majority group within this Senate. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that the subject we are talking about is clearly opposed to the vast majority of the country. All the polls say so, last that of the Ixè Institute for Agora, which has attested a 73 percent opposition to adoptions for gays and stepchild adoption and only a 20 percent favorable; and it is a gap that has increased by seven points in two weeks, which means that the more people are informed the more they say they are opposed, indeed disgusted (and we claim to our credit this result because in these months we have fought and we have spent to properly inform the maximum number of citizens, and this is certainly one of the most positive results of the mobilization of the Family Day). Colleagues, I think all this deserves some thought. I'm making a further solicitation. I believe it is profoundly wrong to treat this subject by distorting it in a traditional opposition between the right and the left, Catholics and lay people, progressives and retrogrades, obscurantists and light bearers: on ethical issues the divisions are transversal and the prudence that is required of all of us does not mean wanting to postpone the approval of a standard that is balanced, but it is a prudence made indispensable by the need to find, precisely, a balance and to prevent the launch of a measure that could lead to very heavy consequences for our country, for Italian society and for its future, undermining the foundation of the fundamental institution, which is the family. Once again, colleagues from the Left, colleagues from the Democratic Party, I address you because yours is also a story in which there is a humanitarian component, attentive - I believe - to these reflections. It is no coincidence that many members of the left-wing world in recent weeks have expressed deep concerns. The President of the Gramsci Institute, Giuseppe Vacca, has been mentioned, who has made clear his doubts and opposition. So they have done many exponents of historical, Italian and international feminism; some of them have been silenced others courageously continue to express their opposition. Doubts and perplexities have been exposed by a character like Juliet Church and in this Chamber by Senator Tronti and other Senators of the Democratic Party, who have regretted the fact that the proposal to amend Article 5 has not been accepted or the proposal to make two different laws, dealing with the issue of adoptions in an appropriate and autonomous forum. The same has happened at the international level. I quote the resounding event of fifteen days ago at the French National Assembly, wanted and directed by the Socialist Vice-President of that important assembly, along with numerous associations of the left; an event that had ample echo in France and in the European media, although we - not by chance - did not talk about it at all. In conclusion, I believe that, in the face of issues such as these, none of us can in conscience think of passing a law that sees the opposition as such a large percentage of citizens. My call for reflection obviously also applies to the President of the Council: it is not fair to split the country and I do not think it is even convenient for the Government to launch measures so opposed by the great majority of citizens: I do not believe that the majority of the Italian people, contrary to this measure, would increase their esteem and consideration, already at unexalted levels, towards the Government. I don't think we can think of replacing adoption with a kind of reinforced foster care or pre-affidavit that would have the same practical consequences and would also rub and twist an institution that is gift and generosity, in a selfish claim of parenthood. Let us all reflect well, therefore; it is an extraordinarily sensitive theme, which divides the country so resoundingly and so as to advise against confronting it with ideological forces compared to the average common feeling of our people and with an occasional, spurious or minimal majority. If it passes, we all know that in the crucial points the difference votes will be minimal. Colleagues, I believe that on these issues we need a dose of humility and realism. We should choose to proceed in small steps, perhaps in successive stages, starting with what is widely shared. We have said this and we all know what is widely shared: the recognition of the rights of cohabitants, even homosexuals. A law of this kind would already be a novelty in the Italian panorama. We have a chance to do that. Every other force would lead us on a wrong path. I don't think any of us should be able to go through it in conscience. [[Applause from Senator Serafini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u47	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u48	Mr President, Melita Cavallo, magistrate, former President of the Tribunal for the Minors of Rome, argues that the judgment No 138 of 2010 of the Constitutional Court is very clear. I'll read you a short step: "Social formation must mean any form of community, simple or complex, suitable to allow and promote the free development of the person in the relationship life, in the context of a valorization of the pluralistic model." In this right to live freely as a couple there is also the right to have a child and the consequent duties referring primarily to respect for the child by raising him responsibly, imprinting everything towards the best interest of the child. The family must be this: love and care for the child; empathy and fluid relationship. Then, the magistrate continues, the Constitutional Court clearly states: You legislators must give legal recognition of the same-sex union. We, therefore, have the responsibility and the serious awareness to face a legislative act that speaks to the fundamental values of our Constitution; I have heard a lot about it in these days in the general discussion and there have been many references to our wonderful Constitution. Since I didn't find myself in those quotes, I read some basic steps. Article 3: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, regardless of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions." Article 27: "Custom liability is personal" (you will ask me why I make this reference. Later I will try to explain it). Article 29: The Republic recognizes the rights of the family as a natural society founded on marriage. Marriage is ordained on the moral and legal equality of spouses, with the limits laid down by law as a guarantee of family unity. Article 30: It is the duty and right of parents to maintain, educate and educate their children, even if they are born out of marriage. Article 31: The Republic shall facilitate with economic measures and other provisions the training of the family and the performance of the related tasks, with particular regard to large families. I add Article 37: "Working women have the same rights and, for equal work, the same wages as the worker..." So we are talking about fundamental rights and there can be no downward mediation, nor are ambiguities more justifiable, which are only due to the thermometer of ideological or worse opportunistic positions of parties or movements, nor to the appearance of the same majority, which seems to change its skin continuously. It is paradoxical to discuss rights and duties in relation to the sexual orientation or identity of persons, entering and almost searching their private sphere, in an Assembly in which for a long time they have been no longer clear identities, political orientations and values. Colleagues, let us clarify the ideas on at least one point: the civil rights and equality of all people are issues that go beyond the parties and must be fully part of the sphere of citizenship rights, which Italy must guarantee universally and which are recognised throughout Europe. Our Constitution speaks clearly and does so with an incontrovertible language, in the merit and absolute clarity and in the absolute comprehension of words: not like the horrible, cryptic changes you have recently made, with a dark, exclusive language, which postpones, affirms and denies, postpones, hopes and alludes. But so much so: with the referendum the citizens will remedy that disaster. Our Constitution and the passages I read to you do not allow interpretation. These are clear choices, in the field. The country we feel part of is inclusive and in step with the most important European realities. We have reiterated this in recent weeks and in the squares, alongside thousands of people, between rainbow families and LGBT associations, who in Rome and in other 90 cities participated in the event entitled "Wake Italy," to shake the local Phariseeism. In Piazza del Pantheon and throughout Italy it has been reiterated that it is time to be civil. For this reason, always listening and in harmony with civil society, at the Senate we will commit ourselves to the approval of the bill Cirinna, while considering it the minimum union, in terms of civil unions, compared to the proposals that we of Italian Left and SEL had presented. From this point of view, it represents a step back from the full, clean and clear recognition of marriage, as it discriminates against even heterosexual couples. The Italian Left is in favour of egalitarian marriages, because we defend the rights, in their entirety, for all and for all. The same are people and equal are rights and duties. Equality between all and all, before the law, with the same duties and rights: simple and clear. The point is this and it concerns what is thought below, even among those who do not use medieval terms, insults and machist provocations that - alas - have found reception not only on social networks, but also in this House. Sometimes, in order to repair claims of enormous gravity and squalid insults, you try to put pieces that are worse than garro. In this sense Senator Formigoni has produced himself, in these days, in such activity: a pity that everyone hears with annoyance the shrill noise, which is produced by sliding along a mirror. He claims that he was referring to specific people, known to him. I suggest a remedy, I think the only one possible: tell who he referred to, with name and surname, otherwise there is only so much punishment for those who, in the compulsion of tweeting, lose all reasonableness and civil behavior. [[Applause from Senators Cirinna and Lumia]] We are starting from the assumption that we are not talking about equal citizens, women and men with equal rights and duties; the reasoning is: we grant the minimum necessary to stop the indignation of a people that is far ahead (perhaps because they know life and people every day, in places of work and study, in families: mothers, children, fathers, brothers and sisters in the flesh, with their dreams, their hopes and their daily mortifications). It remains a retro-thought: that homosexuality is a crime and therefore, as such, we reduce the damage. Otherwise we do not understand why crimes are evoked that see straight people as absolute protagonists, and in particular straight men. Perhaps it will be for the law of the great numbers but I do not believe, unfortunately I believe that it is for a matter of subjective responsibility induced by a culture of oppression: it is in fact the heterosexual men who commit the most vile crimes, often precisely against minors and women, and who make themselves responsible within the family for serious actions and behaviors, horrible crimes. For this reason, we consider the bill to be a necessary compromise but not sufficient to put Italy in a state of maturity in the direction of social and civil justice. However, it remains ideological and contradictory, because it has in fact reduced the direct reference to articles of the civil code that concern marriage and the choice has fallen precisely on those that contain the reference to the family, proceeding in the operation, even lexical, to hinder the possibility that couples formed by persons of the same sex are treated as families. Those homosexuals are specific social formations that are not better defined. And it is paradoxical that this distinction comes precisely from the PD, which has always insisted on declaring itself inspired by the German model: perhaps it is not remembered that German civil unions are included in the civil code and use the instrument of the reference to articles related to marriage. Therefore, in the establishment of the Cirinna bill, we see a violation of the principle of formal equality, evident also with respect to the protections provided for homosexual couples who in fact remain inferior to those established by the institution of marriage. We then find some specific parts discriminatory, such as the need for a new marriage in case of an adjustment of the sex of one of the two partners, or also the lack of consideration for homosexuals who come from countries insensitive to their protection. Yet the debate is misled by the issues of merit and moved on to themes that warm public opinion, producing the effect of a dramatic mass distraction. The debate on stepchild adoption, for example, is distracting attention from the bill as a whole. We are certainly in favour of the adoption institute, and for this reason we have tabled amendments to the unified text proposed by the Senate Justice Commission, which follow two of our previously filed draft laws, on the recognition of civil unions for all adult, heterosexual and homosexual couples, on marriage and adoption for homosexual couples, which we have deposited ex-novo. But the bill Cirinna has many contradictions, such as being out of order in some respects with respect to the existing laws. Precisely the part that provides for adoption is in conflict with a law that prohibits surrogacy. It is also true, however, that the bill Cirinna is the product of a very complex mediation, after two years of debate and still constitutes a base, absolutely perfectible, for a platform of rights that puts the themes of affectivity at the centre of the political debate. Nor can the legislator avoid setting up the regulatory framework necessary to meet the new requirements that a constantly changing society puts on the state. A reality and a civil society that is now mature for change are being discussed, if the ISTAT 2011 report, the homosexual population in Italy, shows that 62.8% of respondents agree with the statement: It is right that a couple of homosexuals who live together should have the same rights as a married couple by law. A few days ago, an article in a well-known newspaper reported data from some ISTAT surveys to try to quantify homosexual couples with their children. I believe that reducing everything to a merely numerical question is reductive: here we are talking about the full equality of all citizens, an issue that has been urged by too many territorial realities, through the establishment of the register of civil unions in many cities of Italy - over 150 - including Rome, which has achieved this result also thanks to the contribution and commitment of the Italian Left SEL in the City Council and in the city. It was 1993 when the mayor of Empoli, first, managed to establish the register of civil unions. In the middle there were Milan, Florence, Naples and many small and large realities, which made their contribution to this revolution. But from all the territories a national law on civil unions and marriages has been demanded - a unanimity widespread in leopard stain. Nor is it possible to leave to the case law the responsibility for the development of law. Also because it was in vogue a chorus back then. When there is a law, I will be the first to apply it. This was said by the mayors who may have been against the merits and repaired themselves behind this chorus. And we've known many of them! And we fought them: many! In many cases, court rulings have led to debate, referring to national legislation. This is the case, just to give a recent example, of the first sentence that in Italy recognized the adoption of a child by her mother's partner and partner, confirmed on 23 December 2015 by the Court of Appeal of Rome. It was on August 29, 2014, when the Court of Minors issued a sentence called historical, the first Italian, that is, the recognition of the maternity project of two women who lived together permanently for ten years. The two companions had married in Spain and registered in the register of civil unions in Rome; in 2009 one of them had a daughter with assisted procreation abroad. Therefore, the Consulta said that de facto couples must have legal recognition. For Italy, we repeat, it is time to be civil. For many reasons and for one in particular, simple, perhaps trivial, that goes beyond the right to equality and overcomes the ideological opposition of the squares favorable and contrary to the bill Cirinna: civil unions are not in opposition to the family. The Law on Civil Unions is the legal framework for the recognition of the family in all the social forms in which it is structured. For this reason, every political exploitation is absolutely anachronistic and meaningless: no one can oppose the evolution of a society, nor can the life and rights of people become hostage to political balances within any majority. The recognition of equal rights for all has always been our battle, which in this House we will carry out to the full, with the appropriate assessments, also in collaboration with LGBT associations. Our goal is to give the country a law that effectively guarantees, and not only on paper, full equality and inclusion against all forms of discrimination. Move a first and important step in the direction of absolute equality of all women and men in our country. That is our task. Today, here and now! [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u49	Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I think that the rules on civil unions should be adopted, after many years of waiting, as explicitly requested by the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. In the many interventions in support of the approval were two main arguments: the indispensable need to recognize civil and social rights to same-sex couples, hitherto excluded. Principles and rules, therefore, of inclusion, non-discrimination, legislative legitimacy of one's choice of affective relationships and the consequent equality of a number of important civil rights, assets, welfare, social security. The absolute value of the protection of minors, in particular of children pre-existing to civil union, as highlighted with particular emphasis in some interventions. I express my conviction that both needs are shared and I think that the adoption of the law on civil unions can correspond to the expectations and needs imposed on the legislator by the two fronts of protection. However, in this area, while maintaining this consistency with the principles of inclusion and protection, some points that merit significant corrections to the draft law must be addressed. I leave out, for reasons of time, the relationship between civil unions and marriages, which you will eventually find in the text. On the other hand, I would like to explain the need to amend Article 5 on the adoption of the partner's child. My conviction is not discriminatory, but objective in its attention to the indirect effects that this rule can lead to far beyond the objective of giving better protection to existing children. This objective, which must be fully safeguarded and strengthened and on which purpose the introduction (in some amendments that I have also signed) of the reinforced trust would give broad guarantees, up to the age of 18. The affirmation, on the contrary, of an unconditional right of adoption like the spouses, instead, within this law drags a very important theme - such as surrogate motherhood - alien to the main subject of today's debate, which deserves a broad and autonomous forum of treatment and certainly not merely incidental as the current one. It is - it is true - a practice already prohibited and sanctioned criminally by our legal system, but which, as admitted in other countries, is feeding forms of procreative tourism by Italian couples, mainly heterosexual, in circumvention or violation of the laws in force in the matter of adoption or access to medically assisted procreation. There was much discussion about the link between stepchild adoption and surrogacy. Some interventions have definitely denied it, classifying it as invention, ghost or non-existent risk. I do not want to refute these beliefs, but I want to highlight the fact that no one can exclude that this rule can have an incentive effect on the two components of civil union which by their very nature are not able to procreate jointly. I wonder, then, whether, as legislators, we can lightly adopt a rule which, albeit indirectly, encourages an effective behaviour of illegality, which contradicts another rule of our own order. Colleagues, even if there was only one shadow, I think we should all agree to stop before we legislate on this, without violating the two principles of inclusion and protection of the children mentioned. To this end, the most coherent solution appears to be to consider the desirability of a general reform of the adoption discipline, but to be dealt with in a different forum from the current one, on the basis of two objective situations. First of all, the practice of surrogate motherhood radically changes the legislative framework on the issue of the recognition of children and therefore the relationship that can be determined with the reform of the adoption discipline must be carefully assessed. With what outcomes no one can say today, but I believe from now excluding simplistic and automatic extensions. Secondly, it also changes, precisely because of the law that we are approving, the audience of the reference subjects for adoptive policies. Finally, but no less important colleagues, it is the consideration that the Senate has in these days an extraordinary opportunity to interpret with balance, avoiding easy divisive temptations, what emerged in recent weeks in the country, with very participated demonstrations. I hope that the Senate will approve a law on civil unions, after years of waiting, entrusting the discipline of adoptions to another specific provision. If we don't trust ourselves, we approve a delegation that forces the government to do so in a short time. On this, I believe, the Senate can vote with a very broad consensus, giving a positive signal of civil advancement to the whole country. Then why not? [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u52	Mr President, I would like to take advantage of this speech to address some of the points raised about this bill both in this House, during a very interesting general debate, and outside, where communication - as we know - is at least opposed to citizens. Most Italian citizens, as all surveys say, are against the equalization of civil unions to marriage and, in particular, against adoptions by same-sex couples. According to the surveys carried out, this number is increasing, within a few weeks, despite the information being found a proportion roughly contrary: while the four fifths of the Italians are opposed, the four fifths of the information are favorable, indicating a separation between this sort of owners of the means of production of ideas (to use a vaguely Marxist term) and instead those who hold these ideas. In fact, as long as we are in democracy, the opinion of the majority of the Italian people should count more than that of the majority of some intellectual autonomy; then, of course, just stand with the left and become automatically intellectual, even if you have the third grade (with all respect for those who had the opportunity to do a few studies). Many questions are raised that are completely invented and far from reality, while others are completely ignored, even though they are closely related to this law. I'll deal with some of them. I heard a heartfelt speech earlier in this House, which I also appreciated in some ways, in which it was basically said that those who are against this law are against the rights of homosexuals, it is because they are discriminated against, it is to go back to the times of Nazism, when homosexuals were placed in the extermination camps; so the situation would be this. That is absolutely not the case. We all in the Forza Italia Group are certainly against discrimination against homosexuals and I must say that this is already the reality that we are living in society. Today there are homosexuals declared - it is not about entering their privacy, because they declare it - that they are in almost all sectors of society, very often in top position, without their sexual orientation having in any way hindered their career and their position. Perhaps, in some cases, he even favored it, in the sense that it is trendy and fashionable, so in some cases it is even an extra march, as well as, in others, it may have made them encounter difficulties. But this happens to all, to religious minorities or to those who have some physical defect, true or presumed. If we go to see all the reasons why, among the kids, someone gets teased, the list would be long: those who are too tall, those who are too thin, those who are too fat, those who are none of these things, but who are perhaps the victim of fucking on the part of someone, in schools or in stadiums (the reasons are not lacking). However, those who stand up today and say that those who are against the Cirinna law are for the discrimination of homosexuals I have not seen them react to the visit of Mr Rouhani, President of the Iranian Republic, where homosexuality is always and in any case punished, often with very heavy corporal punishments, often with death. There are studies, by international institutes that study the rights of minorities (especially the rights of homosexuals), which have stated, because it is not very easy to understand, that during the now more than thirty-six years (or even thirty-seven years) of theocratic regime in Iran, homosexuals killed for this reason, that is to say the fact that they are, are hundreds and perhaps even according to some thousands. Well, when the representative of this beautiful society came to Rome, the Government, the Government itself that in fact drives this law, thought well to make a picnic on a planetary level, boxing some works of art not to offend the illustrious visitor. No one is responsible for this incident, so the President of the Council is responsible, because if you do not know what happens in your Government, you are responsible. A certain official has been mentioned, but she is there very quietly in her place; therefore, it means that she is not responsible or that she has been considered good and has done well. While I, along with some others, have been at demonstrations against Rouhani. But the problem that gays in other countries are really hanged, marginalized, whipped or imprisoned does not arise; everything is fine. The important thing is to have adoptions for gay couples, because this is the measure of human rights; in Italy, of course, because of what happens elsewhere who cares (then we quote abroad when it doesn't have anything to do with it). Another lie - and I heard it a while ago - is that this law puts homosexual couples and heterosexual couples on the same level: it is simply not true. This law often puts homosexual couples who decide to enter civil unions with married couples, obviously heterosexual, because this is the law currently in force in Italy: this yes. It is a marriage in all safety in three respects. First, the name, but we know that the name is really an unimportant thing. For this reason, in other countries marriage is not called that, but it will be called by a foreign word. You, Undersecretary Scalfarotto, have also said so, and don't let me mention the interview on...The Republic of Ireland, in which you stated that it is not a B-series marriage, but the same thing, which is called by another name for reasons of realpolitik. But we didn't write self-delegation on the forehead! The first difference is therefore completely irrelevant. Second difference. The couples united by civil union can access the adoption of the so-called son of the partner, translated in Italian, but the word always used, stepchild adoption, means adoption of the stepson by the spouse, and therefore it is confirmed that it is a marriage. This they can do, but they can't do it for the adoption of children outside the couple. I apologize if I come back to quote you, Mr Scalfarotto, but these are your words and I imagine that, having said them, you can quote them. You have stated that homosexuals are interested in having their own children - and the stepchild adoption is precisely that - and do not have children who, we know from the beginning, are of others and are adopted. In any case, there is this difference, but it is quite marginal. Third difference. There are no publications for civil unions, but, as you know - that would be something to innovate - there are for marriages. In the age of the Internet when two are married the union is published in the town hall book, which no one looks anymore because we are not in the sixties or before, when we went to see the publications to know who was getting married; no one goes to see the pretorio book anymore. However, it is a way of advertising because, as is said in the classic formula, if someone has something against this wedding, talk now or keep silent forever. No, civil unions cannot be done because they are done confidentially. This is not a difference compared to marriage that downgrades it a little, but a privilege. In fact, just to say, it can happen that someone makes a civil union with another person of the same sex - because with those of the opposite sex you can not do it, there is a certain rigidity and you find very moralist; some things are not done with people of the opposite sex, but only with people of the same sex - without anyone knowing it; maybe neither do the children, who in the meantime are asked for special assistance, or maybe if they cooperate in a company you ask for some expensive participation in the activity of the family company, and they do not know (while instead they would know, if it were a marriage) that this father or this mother married a person of the same sex - pardon, made a civil union - and consequently they are deprived of a part of their inheritance. It's okay, but you should know that, so it's even an advantage over married couples. Instead, heterosexual couples who do not marry, who are not married (there are 1.5 million in Italy and are hugely more numerous than homosexual couples), enjoy the rights provided by the second part of this bill and these rights are almost impalpable. And above all it is very unclear who accesses it and who does not, because it is possible that these few rights are recognized not by the will of the owners; it is the judge who decides whether a couple living together does it by chance or to establish a lasting pact: a really curious thing. Well, these couples will not have - just to talk about something that interests them - the reversibility. Maybe a man and a woman have had several children and the woman has given up the job opportunities and therefore contributory to follow the children. And when, for example, man (or woman) dies, there will be no reversibility, which can also be a choice, and there will be his motivation. But two lords or two ladies who decide to make a civil union and therefore they will certainly have no children of their own, indeed they will have no children, but they have the reversibility. This is the beautiful equality that you want to establish. Another thing that is said is that the present bill has nothing to do with the uterus for rent. For God's sake, this has nothing to do with the uterus for rent. Where do the children of same-sex couples come from? Some say that maybe they come from heterosexual relationships that they had before and it's also possible. There is, however, a small fact to consider: if the other person, for example the woman with whom a man had children, is alive (and it usually happens this way: generally one dies as an elderly person, so the minors are all children of people living), it is only because a wife a woman can adopt her children, but they are of another living man. It can't be done, heterosexuals and non-heterosexuals. This stepchild adoption is to adopt children born of fecundation with the participation of an outside person, a man or a woman. In both cases this child is born pre-programmed to be an orphan of father or mother. To say that there is no relation between stepchild adoption (the adoption of the stepson) and the uterus for rent (the pregnancy for others) is to say that it is not true that every theft corresponds to a person robbed, that every sale corresponds to a purchase; it is like saying that abolishing the crime of requisition would not favor the theft, that is, madness. But logic is in danger when you want to force children to have two fathers or two mothers. If you do such a thing, everything is actually possible: it is possible that two plus two makes one and a half; it is possible that a triangle has seven sides and that the sum of its angles is 420 degrees. Anything is possible. If you can have two fathers and two mothers you can do this too. However, it is said that these children should not be discriminated against. I also heard Senator Mineo say that those who do not want stepchild adoption tell the child child that he grew up by a couple of women or men that you must be ashamed to live in this condition. Who ever said that? The child who is raised, educated, cared for by one of his parents and grandparents or only by his grandparents or by his aunt, without these being entitled to be their fathers, or the children whose mother's second husband (or the father's second wife) takes care of more than their true parent are perhaps discriminated against because this person maybe sometimes even takes them out of kindergarten? Besides, this exit from kindergarten is another gigantic lie. My children were taken out of school or kindergarten by a number of people; sometimes I too went with another man and no one asked me for the marriage certificate with this other man. You delegate to the school, state and public, and go get it whoever you decide. Then you don't need to specify if that's your husband, the one you're sleeping with, he's your domestic collaborator, or he's your brother. It's a huge lie. The ball is discrimination. Here we want to discriminate: we want to discriminate against these children and condemn them for life to never have a mother or father. But they say this has nothing to do with stepchild adoption. No, no, this has nothing to do with it. Another dance that gets turned is that this bill puts conservative Catholics on one side, who are opposed, and on the other all others who are in favour. First of all I did not know that in Italy there were 75 percent of conservative Catholics, but ultra-conservatives not little conservative: to say, Giovanardi would still be a moderate. Is 75% of Italians like that? No, 75% of Italians think - logic is logical - that a child has the right to have a father and a mother. They can be Catholics, conservatives and progressives; they can be Protestants and most Protestants in Italy (not the most visible ones, but the most numerous ones) are sided on this position, i.e. they are opposed to adoption by couples of the same sex. There are Orthodox, there are atheists, there are homosexuals, even famous, who, for having declared these things, were attacked in a particularly violent way by militant homosexualists. This is the reality and I feel obliged to respond to Senator Mineo who told me: how can you who are Waldensian have these positions? There's nothing weird about these positions. My people-church has always been in my positions, until, in August of last year, they modified an ecclesiastical document concerning marriage, which until then was the only existing and in force (let's forget that it was then widely violated) and that it was on positions a little more conservative than those of Pope Ratzinger: divorce is not even talked about because it should not exist. That's how the marriage was dealt with in this document, so let's forget it. I am on the positions that my people and my church have had for at least eight hundred years (and more, I believe), so if anything they are others who should give explanations. Another mystification: with stepchild adoption children are removed from orphanages. First of all, it is not true: since it is only the adoption of the son of the partner, of the stepson, none of these children is in an orphanage, because the father and the mother have them and therefore has nothing to do with it. But what potentially happens if the natural father of a child who was raised by his natural father and his father's partner dies? This child does not go to the orphanage because, since 1983, there is a law that says that, in case of lack of both parents, a child can be adopted with special adoption, that is, directly, as well as by other relatives, as a person with whom this child has a stable and lasting relationship. I want to see what the magistrate is today that would not give preference even to this relationship even if maybe the person is not so recommendable - not because homosexual, for charity, but because there are people not recommendable of any sexual orientation - compared to grandparents, uncles and so on. With the temperie there now, let alone. However, this is already foreseen: no child goes to an orphanage. In fact, if there is no one else by chance, at that point it is absolutely certain that the child can be adopted - unless the court judges him completely unsuitable for other reasons - directly by the companion of the father or mother, depending on the situation. One thing must also be said about the logic of having to predict each case. First of all, even in the event of death, the situation is resolved in the way I said. But then, with this logic, everyone should be allowed to have different wives and husbands. In fact, what happens if someone dies in a couple? If the father dies, the child remains without a father: let the lady marry two or three other husbands so there is no problem and, even if one dies, there is always another, as the spare wheels (at least one needs it). They're totally crazy logics. To think that, since if a parent dies then the child remains alone, it is necessary to apposite two fathers, so we are sure: total madness. In reality, it is all a pretext and a construction to disrupt the concept of paternity and motherhood (now we use this horrible word, "parentiality" that I refuse), to completely release it from procreation, to muddle the noble institute of adoption, which consists in giving a father and a mother to a child who does not have them, and to replace it with the opposite thing: to program a child to be born orphaned in order to be able to adopt it by two men or two women. I close on the last tale: marriages and sexual adoptions are rampant in the world, they are everywhere in Europe and we are the last ones. Small list of countries, only in Europe (around the world there are 160), which do not have adoptions by same-sex couples: Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Northern Cyprus, Vatican City (would be strange), Croatia, Estonia, Faroe Islands, Georgia, Gibraltar, Greece, Kosovo, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Poland, Czech Republic, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Ukraine, Hungary. On February 28 of this year Switzerland will also hold a referendum to determine whether marriage is only between a man and a woman: polls say that yes is at the top of the electorate of all parties, including those on the left. Happy birthday, Democratic Party. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Milo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u53	She's registered to speak Senator Idem. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are now only walking on that wall which divides those who are in favour of adoption and those who are not. The curious fact is that one could rightly observe that the most heated factor of conflict is not even the subject of this law. I am overlooking the conspiracy theories expressed in this House that, starting from this text, we are afraid of an inevitable evolution towards the total acceptance of the so-called gender ideology, which would presumably lead us to accept paedophilia and polygamy. I guarantee it's a quote. I dare not imagine the ancestral fears that hold such positions, but I express my compassion; I might endeavor to understand them by mentally moving them, going back in time for a few centuries - I smell the Middle Ages - but, thank God, we live in the present, in a modern state. A European state that is moving towards the affirmation of rights and duties for people who, unfortunately, are still discriminated against by their sexual orientation (not shared by the majority of people, but sexual practices are aspects of exclusively personal domination) and therefore unable by the law in force to build recognized cohabitations based on love. A love that claims the right to be able to make a mutual commitment. I want to remind you that a valid right is being born for couples of the same sex as for all heterosexual couples, who want to choose the discipline of this law for their lebensgemeinschaft, their community of life. I come to the most discussed point, the stepchild adoption: in appearance, the greatest fear is that it is a disguised passage to legitimize the practice of the uterus for rent, moreover already prohibited by law and of which the bill Cirinna does not treat. These are the data found. Regarding the data not found, however, the president of the Italian society of pediatrics, Giovanni Corsello, has recently argued that it cannot be excluded that living with two parents of the same sex does not have negative repercussions on the processes of psychic and relational development in the evolutionary age. That is to say: living in the Land of Fires could have negative repercussions on health, meaning for Land of Fires not the family context of the homoffective couple, but our society, too toxic to be able to welcome modernity. Because, hypocrisy aside, it is clear that the real problem for adopted stepchildren is not the love they experience in a family composed of two parents of the same sex but the toxic cultural context, precisely, that does not admit this option, because it discriminates those who make up families in the sense understood by the bill that we are currently discussing. A measure which, for me, must pass as proposed by my colleague Mr Cirinna. On the contrary, I go further and I align myself with my fellow Members who, like me, regard the current version as a minimum trade union. I would like to extend the rights to the highest level, and I have therefore signed a number of amendments to allow the adoptions tout court, and not just those of the biological children of their partner. The reason is quite simple; if it is true that it is already an insult to the Constitution to deny a right, it is a monstrosity to deny rights to children. Therefore, although I am opposed to the gestation for others for payment, I say forcefully: no one has the right to deny the possibility of adoption for a child because of the choices of the parents. If this were to happen, we would be faced with a state that repudiates its children because it is incapable of enforcing standards and accepting the inevitability and joy of a life that comes to the world. I'm going to conclude. I find it unbearable that in an increasingly globalised world, on the one hand we are seeing - lazyly, and we do not find a remedy - scenes in which, literally, children are thrown away, while on the other hand, even in this House, we are discussing, with medieval action, whether someone has the title to love and adopt the partner's son or not. I find it unbearable the hypocrisy with which we express concern for the psychological safety of children living with two parents of the same sex and, at the same time, there is no remedy to the sick models of our society that perpetuate themselves, undisturbed, generating dangerous phenomena such as assisted violence, bullying, cyberbullying. Who cares about young anorexic or bulimic girls chasing models of unattainable thinness? Other than homosexual parents! I rarely refer to my experience with the Government, but it must be said that my repeated requests to sponsor the Pride of Palermo have all been sent back to the sender. And not only that. I was also invited to let go, not to fight for the rights of LGBT people, not to attend the conference that inaugurated the event. I still went there, with conviction, knowing that my presence would bother me. Today, three years after that Pride - and I ask you to grant me this grammatical transgression - I say: I am pride of having been there, I am proud to have been there. I shall conclude my speech. Mr Malan said earlier that civil unions are the same as marriage. I would have liked this right to have been called so immediately, but I agree with the compromise and I will vote for this text. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u55	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u56	Mr President, representatives of the government, fellow senators, the moment that our country is going through is very serious: think that we risk even extending civil rights to gay couples, exactly as happens in virtually all the rest of Europe. In Spain, for gay couples, it is possible to marry and adopt children. In France and Great Britain, adoption is legal by homosexual couples, as well as their marriage. Stepchild adoption and civil union are also permitted in Germany. You could continue with Holland, Belgium, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Ireland, Austria etc. But here we are in Italy, a country where also the recognition of fundamental rights, on which one should not transgress, becomes the object of a bitter political battle, moreover, fueled in part by parties reduced to the light in terms of electoral consensus; Actually, maybe that's what it is. I've often heard in this This House speaks of the need to protect the traditional family, but I have heard of it from Members who will be remembered more for their attempts to justify festivities, drugs and prostitutes than for their activities as parliamentarians. Others who are now tearing their clothes off for the protection of the traditional family have even come to humiliate the entire Parliament by tabling amendments for the protection of paedophilia. They were withdrawn, not without embarrassment. Members who are with me in the Committee on Justice are well aware of this. Of course, this is a fine way to protect the family; it is certainly original. Still others have not hesitated to release the sexual abuse of minors by defending the indefendable, as in Ruby's case. I believe, Mr President, that the need to give more protection to the family is sacrosanct. Maybe not like now, the family is under attack, but certainly not for the Cirinna bill, but for unholy policies of a government that does not start from the fundamental needs of the family. For example, to give a first real relief to families you could start from the introduction of citizenship income in our country too. This bill has found a firm opposition precisely in the President of the Commission's work, another political exponent who in words is spent on protecting the family, but who in fact is one of the main perpetrators of the crisis in which families are located today in our country. Just think of the precariousness introduced into the world of work. Let me give another example: how many abortions could be avoided if there were real family protection in our country? I am thinking of a serious system of assistance, as is already the case in most European countries. We're probably talking about tens of thousands a year. But this is not a social problem for Parliament to discuss. Returning to the measure under discussion, it has been mentioned several times - and I would like to repeat it myself - that Italy has already been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for not having yet introduced a discipline on homosexual unions in our country and I would like to reiterate that the Constitutional Court itself has repeatedly called us, as legislators, to provide. Of course, I am often told that this is true, but that there are other priorities in our country. It is true that there are many priorities, but civil unions in Italy have been discussed for thirty years. The first bill dates back to 1988, then there were the so-called rights and duties of permanently living persons (DICO) and the civil solidarity pacts (PACS), but not if he did anything. In short, it is ten legislative acts that are being told to Italian citizens, who are waiting for this reform, that this is not a priority. I therefore believe that now is the time to vote for this reform. We know that a majority, more sensitive to the stability of the government, than to the recognition of civil rights, will take advantage of the secret vote, to try to sabotage its path in the Assembly. Let us not forget that in the Committee on Justice the Government has returned to the Commission on all the amendments, both those in favour and those which are clearly contrary to the measure. Let us not also forget that, nine times in nine votes, the majority voted against - including the Democratic Party - the calendarization of the provision on civil unions, which could therefore have been discussed for some time in the Assembly, in the Senate. On one occasion in particular, his examination was made to slip even to give precedence to the so-called Boccadutri law. For the majority of the parties represented in this House, it was more important to secure substantial electoral funding than to start the debate on the draft law on civil unions. Starting with the conclusion, for these reasons I therefore appeal for a clear vote, so that each senator can assume his own responsibilities in the face of his own conscience and, above all, in the face of the country, in order to prevent that once again the need not to displease a partner of government, to the detriment of the recognition of fundamental civil rights, over which, moreover, they have committed themselves, repeatedly and formally, both the majority forces and those of opposition. The time has come to approve this reform and it is now. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cirinna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u57	Senator Orrù is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would have liked to begin my speech by reading in full Articles 2 and 29 of the Constitution and also Article 3, but for reasons of time I will not do so. It is precisely on these three articles of our Constitutional Charter that our discussion is based. Colleagues, it is the same Constitution that states in Article 21 the right to freely express one's thoughts and it is always the same Constitution that in Article 67 states that the Members of Parliament represent the nation, without a mandate. I say immediately to avoid further, presumptuous and unpleasant misunderstandings that, as I have always said, I will vote firmly in favour of the bill, also bearing in mind the vote expressed at the end of an assembly of my political group, the Democratic Party, concerning the final vote of the bill, including the regulations of civil unions between persons of the same sex and the discipline of cohabitations. Having said that, I would like to make a few comments and comments on the text we are debating. I repeat that I am absolutely in favour of the installation of the measure and the recognition of the rights to couples of the same sex, and not only, that too late arrives in our country and well did my colleague Lo Giudice to retrace and remember the last thirty years and the stages reached by the different countries that before us have addressed this issue. I agree with the choice made, even as a result of authoritative requests, to set up a new, separate and different legal institution from marriage in order to avoid misunderstandings and confusion with Article 29 of the Constitution. However, I do not believe that this text is a downside compromise; rather, I believe that we are fulfilling our duty as legislators well in line with the provisions of Constitutional Court ruling No 138 of 2010. On the other hand, I have a lot of concerns about Article 5, and that is what I shall focus on. Colleagues, the words that have most resonated in this House in recent days are: "equality" and "discrimination" but unfortunately the exasperation of the debate has in fact put in place and created, by those who in recent days have made equality their own flag, a real discrimination against those who legitimately think differently on certain points of the bill and in particular on Article 5. Colleagues, too often in my opinion we forget to represent the nation, as well as being an expression of the territories, and as you probably have noticed the citizens on the subject of stepchild adoption are divided and it is therefore natural that the same divisions should also be reported in Parliament. Some colleagues in this House asked a question: what would you do if it were your son or your grandson? I respond that it falls within my duties as a mother to teach my child that you cannot have everything you want, just as it is my duty as a mother to teach and make my child understand that in the face of a great desire to be a parent, the ability to procreate is indispensable, that children are not bought and that they do not resort to surrogacy; instead, as a woman I have the responsibility to teach him that a woman's body must never be used or abused! Colleagues, we must have the intellectual honesty to recognize to ourselves (as well as to Italian citizens) that even if the text of the bill on civil unions never mentions to any extent surrogate motherhood and/or law n. 40 authorizes it tacitally, or does not exclude its practice, otherwise what future children are we talking about? We all know - and I say all - that in Italy this practice is prohibited by Law No. 40 and we have all said with a loud voice that it is an aberrant practice, except then turn to the other side or remain silent or even justify the fact saying: It is forbidden in Italy when we listen to stories of homosexual and heterosexual couples (mostly), who candidly tell of having gone overseas to benefit, at a high cost, from a practice that in our country is forbidden and severely punished. Probably, indeed certainly, this is not the appropriate measure to fully address the issue, but this is certainly the text through which we can follow up on what has been said and extend the sentence in Italy if the crime is committed abroad. Far be it from me that I want to discriminate against children from one another and I do not think it is necessary to launch slogans to demonstrate this because the protection of children is at the heart of everyone, and for this very reason a sort of sanatoria must be made and several amendments have been tabled to this effect even if, for the children already born, Law No 184 on adoptions in Article 44 (d) covers the special adoptions that fall within the scope of the present case. On this article, in fact, the possibility for same-sex couples to adopt the partner's biological child was extended in an interpretative way (and it is just a few days ago the last sentence). We certainly cannot pass on the message that being a parent is a right and we cannot even pretend that we do not know that what is forbidden in Italy can be done abroad peacefully. I do not want to stop to imagine what questions the child will ask parents when they explain to him that his natural mother carried him in her womb to fulfill their great desire, but above all I do not imagine what concept the child will have of that woman who will certainly not be able to call Mom or feel her as such. All the studies mentioned in this House have not been carried out in our country and - in my opinion - we are not yet sufficiently informed to give a real answer in this regard. That is my great perplexity. Right? Wrong? I don't know. Colleagues, I, unlike you, do not have all these certainties, but I do not want to convey the message that a great desire for parenthood, that is, an individual desire, can become the only legal element in order to acquire the status of parents. I am sure of one thing: that mediation is still possible. If there is will, it is never too late to mediate. It is enough to demonstrate with the facts what has been repeated several times in this House. Among the amendments tabled, in fact, there is one that provides for the practice of surrogacy to be condemned in Italy even when carried out abroad. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I remain of the idea that the optimal solution would be not to address in this measure the issue of adoptions or, in any case, to modify the text by inserting as a crime surrogate motherhood even if it is carried out abroad, while at the same time committing the Government to want to address as soon as possible the delicate issue of the reform of adoptions and the amendment of law n. 40. Only in this way, in my opinion, will we fully fulfil our role as legislators without fear, as has been said in this House, that someone in thirty years' time reading the session reports may be ashamed of us! [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u59	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u60	Madam President, the debate that is taking place in this House can be summed up in a number of subjects: the first refers to those who are specious and who denounce something that there is not in the Cyrinna bill, through some illogical paradigms. I am referring to certain environments, which I do not allow to define clerics, but which, in principle, look more confidently than rationally at the issue of homosexuality as an event contrary to nature, which see in the bill Cirinna the seal of a homologation between homosexual couples and heterosexual couples. (16.56) (Follow D'ANNA). All this belongs to a debate that is legitimate, but that does not emanate from the letter of articles of the bill Cirinna. It is an alarmistic consideration, albeit legitimate, but it finds no foundation in the equalization between homosexual and heterosexual couples, that is, in the equalization between civil unions and marriage, which is not in the text at our examination. As in the law there is no question of the uterus for rent, because the bill Cirinna (I will repeat it perhaps for the hundredth time in this House) does not change anything other than a small part of Law No 184 of 1983 which regulates adoptions providing, as well as for spouses, as it is written in letter b) of Article 44, the possibility of making the request for adoption even for one of the two parts of the civil union, when the biological father fails. We should then ask ourselves whether these are exactly the terms of the question, given that point (a) of the same article of the aforementioned law governing adoptions provides that minors may be adopted by persons joined to the child by bond of kinship up to the sixth degree. If this is not the case, those who are critical of Article 5 (I am critical, but for another aspect) should explain to us whether this child, affectionately linked to one of the two components of the civil union, should be rooted affectively by the other person, having lost his biological father, and entrusted to the Brefotrophic. These are the things that are paraded in front of us. If it is true, as it is true, that the protection of the child is paramount, the prediction that the child can be adopted by the other component of civil union seems to me to be a principle of common sense. And I face the situation as a layman. However, I must say - thanking Senator Cirinna for taking all the invectives and for having suffered all the exploitations that the eternal Father could invent to say bad things that are not contained in the text, because to me those who pay the price and put their face - that we must make a reflection, that perhaps does not have to do with the bill. Those who think that the desire for motherhood or paternity cannot be elevated to the right by a fair observation: if it were not so, I would feel authorized to petition Senator Cirinna to prepare another bill in which all former senators are guaranteed to live at least 150 years of age and I raise this wish of mine to a right. I have made this example to show pedissequa and clear that not all desires can become rights, also because in this case there is an element that many neglect, that is called nature, evolution, and that is not in the willingness of politics or legislators. I wonder, then, what we want to do with the 30,000 fertilized embryos lying in cryogenic steel tubes, filled with nitrogen, and that sooner or later they should find a legislative solution. As a Catholic, I think they are children: it is only necessary to give them the opportunity to develop themselves, but biologically they have nothing different from all human beings. They are microscopic, they are not 150 cm tall, they have not yet characterized the eyes, but they have them in power, because everything is already coded within that fertilized oocyte. It would have been good to predict that those who have this desire for motherhood, being a homosexual couple of two women, could adopt one of these embryos, which will deteriorate and there will be a massacre of the innocent, because we will take 30,000 children and throw them into a sewer drain, since they cannot stand there indefinitely. And I wonder if it is possible, even if it is not in the intention of the rapporteur or of what is written in the draft law, as Mrs Orrù has just said, that this draft law, surreptitiously, allowing this type of adoption to homosexual couples, can stimulate the practice of the uterus for rent. I wonder whether we have raised our desire to the law and whether we agree with this, as it is right that it is from the point of view of the recognition of rights because sexual tastes are not discriminatory; men are men and women remain women, in their biological scope and legal scope, of the rights of which they are depositaries. We must realize that if we were to encourage the practice of the uterus for rent, we would be starting humanity - so it is not even a fact that can concern us as a Parliament or as a nation - to subvert what in chemistry and physics is equivalent to the conservation of the species. That is, it is as if we wanted to change the law of gravity, which is the universal equivalent of what is the principle of conservation of the species in living beings. Who, inside or outside this context, could predict what the end of the universe is if we changed the law of gravity? I challenge even the most intimate, the inflexible ones, to reflect, beyond the aberration of the predation of an organ, rather than the predation of a person, because the pregnancy completely changes the physiological condition of the woman, and it is not a matter of renting a uterus, but of renting a person. And because this is subject to contract, what is the control of the State, of the collective entity, of these contracts that take place outside the nation and for agreements that we cannot know? I'm going to conclude. What happens if the agreement between those who rent the uterus and those who make it available provides that, after ten years, this woman claims it again or who has taken it does not want it anymore, having satisfied their desire? Then I would like to point out an amendment by Senator Giovanardi, who is not the panacea, but who nevertheless establishes, creating a restriction, that children conceived with illegal practices in the Italian territory cannot be enrolled in the office of civil status, because they are the result of a practice that is considered illegal in Italy. It's like we're carrying stolen stuff, stealing in a country where theft isn't a crime. I think that's the point of mediation. That is why I would like to ask all those who believe in repealing the Treaty and those who trust it to give this thought to this amendment. [[Applause from the AL-A Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u61	We welcome the students of the middle school "Rita Levi Montalcini" in Campodoro, in the province of Padua, who are today visiting the Senate and attending our works. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the Cirinna bill has been discussed in the Senate for months. Not only is it discussed here: in TV, in newspapers, in the Church, in pros and cons committees, on trains, in bars and on social media hell has unleashed. Some in this House have only been able to say lies, perhaps under pressure from religious lobbyists or moralists and perbenists who think they always have absolute truth on their side. It is false to say that the adoption of the partner's son is an opener to legalize the uterus for rent. It is false and it is also a terrorist message, which is not intended to protect anyone but those who want to guide consciences. Every time there is a reason to deny the openness of rights, especially to minorities, who are only asking for the possibility of forming a recognized family. In this uncivilized country, at least thirty years ago, it would have been necessary to legislate on civil unions. The other countries, which as usual have already adopted laws similar to the Cirinna bill, laugh at us and feel authorized to tell us what we must or should not do. The exploitation of concepts such as the uterus for rent or the equalization of marriage is shameful. Why is the intelligence of Italians insulted? There are no such arguments in the Cirinna bill. There are only civil unions between people who love each other, heterosexuals or homosexuals; human beings, as well as Italian citizens, who have decided to share their lives, in complete freedom and conscience, and which you in this House are denigrating. Nor have there been any resounding backward marches by politicians of the last hour, who, having publicly condemned the bill in all channels of communication, now, with a beautiful turncoat position, promote freedom of conscience. But do they have a conscience? Or do they sell it for a handful of votes in the next election? I wonder: what upsets the stepchild adoption, what else is it that the adoption of the stepson, which for many years and in some cases the judges already grant? We are not talking about paedophilia or sexual abuse, however known practices, as the news shows, by many good people like some priests or some good husbands and fathers of family, who then go to do sex tourism in the countries of the Third World. I say that it is time to end this theater; it is time to vote, to do so clearly and to let the citizens have the opportunity to live their sentimental choices with dignity. Speaking of theater, I quote a sentence by Totò that comes to me spontaneously: In this madhouse things happen crazy. [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u63	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this House, in the debate these days, we are all aware that we are the protagonists of a very important transition, first of all because it puts people first: anxieties, expectations, hopes that policy demands answers. They have found a voice in this House, in the debate these days, the feelings of women and men who for too long have been denied basic prerogatives, such as those of seeing fully recognized long-lasting emotional ties, life plans between two people who love each other, and therefore have the right to unite in marriage, whatever their sexual orientation, by free people who aspire to well-being and happiness. It is on this basis that I am firmly convinced that gay and lesbian couples have, like the others, full right to marriage without any difference or loss, because there is no valid reason that can still discriminate thousands of people before the law feeding prejudices and forcing to a condition of minority, non-nationality, many couples in the name of an alleged normality. But what is normality? I ask myself this as a legislator and I ask all of you in this House that, like me, you are called to make choices that concern the way in which everyone sees life, its deepest values, everyday ethics. Then the beautiful words of Pope Francis come to mind: "Who am I to judge?" I think, as a legislator, that where there is love between two people and - if there are - their children, there is a family. And this trace was also found in the reading of the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, which last June declared unconstitutional state laws prohibiting gay marriages because they violate the principle of equality enshrined in the American Constitution. That sentence is a true hymn to marriage as the essential right of everyone to achieve something greater than themselves, an aspiration that no one can be denied. Reading that sentence, the union between freedom and equality is very strong, which is the most powerful spring for a political conscience of rights, to build a more advanced, more inclusive society. Even today, in the hours when the Senate can launch one of the reforms that will mark republican history, demonstrating, this Senate, this Parliament, its value, its maturity, making this a constituent legislature also on the ground of rights, the question lies in the terms used by John Kennedy many years ago, in 1963 in his speech on civil rights in the aftermath of the events in Alabama: The fundamental problem is whether we should all have the same rights and equal opportunities. If we want to treat our fellow citizens... as we ourselves would like to be treated. I shall then vote on the draft law on civil unions as a decisive step towards egalitarian marriage, as is already the case in most of Europe. I do not miss the enormous importance of this measure, and I would like to thank Senator Monica Cirinna, all the Senators of the PD and those of all the Groups who supported this text in the Commission, in its parliamentary process, reaching a high mediation. We now have a close debate in this House, and I think that, out of respect for all citizens, for all opinions, for the transparency that we owe to the public, it would be right that there should be no secret votes in this House, that everyone should speak openly. [[Applause from Senator Santangelo's PDe Group),]] Taking its responsibilities, as in the course of this debate: it would be a further way to bridge the delay in our rights legislation. It is an unsustainable anomaly that separates ours from other Western countries, but above all that separates our political class from Italian society. There are still those who persist in not seeing the social changes that in recent decades have transformed the family, making it plural, modifying customs, opinions, common sense. Many, too many, are still excluded from protection and protection. These are individual rights that are also social rights together and not selfish or narcissistic whims. They are social ties that make a society that is made fragile by the crisis stronger and more supportive. For this reason this legislative vacuum must be filled and above all a hypocritical and cowardly attitude of a certain policy, the one that "the judges then decide" must be repaired. Walls and discrimination must be destroyed, for which Italy was condemned by the European Court of Human Rights in July for the lack of legal protection of same-sex couples. That is why I am convinced of the urgency of this bill, which for me is directly linked to the commitment that we have in this House to implement the first articles of the Constitution: in this case, certainly Article 2, but above all Article 3 of our Charter, which states that all citizens are equal without distinction before the law and that it is the task of the Republic - and therefore ours - to remove the obstacles that prevent its full development. These are the fundamental rights of citizenship. To approve this bill means to return to giving content to a democracy, ours, which is shabby because it has been emptied; it means to regenerate trust between citizens and institutions; it means to hold together civil growth and economic growth, because societies with too many inequalities, with too many injustices, do not work (as we know), are not dynamic, do not produce well-being; instead, when they extend their rights, everyone is stronger and the birth of gay and lesbian families will not take away anything from those hetero. The change that we want to enshrine is already extensively metabolised in the material constitution of our society, in its behaviour, and it is good that this bill holds together civil unions and adoption of the partner's son: this is how it happens everywhere in Europe where there is a law similar to this one. It is an essential point that gives great value to the whole measure and is indispensable for a simple reason, which does not admit replicas: protecting the weakest subjects, children, making the pre-eminent interest and right of the child prevail to have a family and not vice versa. It is an instrument that protects children, all of them, without any difference, however they are born. These are girls and children who exist, so I ask myself and all of us in this House if these children and children who already exist can be ignored. The answer is no. They can't be ignored. They have the right to affective and family continuity that only adoption can guarantee; they have the right to see recognized the right of care, maintenance, hereditary right, and also to be sheltered in the unfortunate case of separation or death of the biological parent. So, the so-called stepchild adoption recognizes an existing family situation (a couple can adopt a child who has already grown up within the family), but puts the child (here is its fundamental importance), its bonds, its affections. In this sense, there is also the call of hundreds of lawyers for this rule, because without a law that deals only with adults and turns its back on the fate of children. There are those who question, Madam President, this parental adoption with the subject of surrogacy, but I think you know very well that it is completely unrelated to this measure. Surrogacy is strictly prohibited by Italian law and will continue to be so. It must be fought hard and the first way to do so is to reform the adoption institute; to make it accessible to so many who today cannot access it; to allow so many children, finally, to have a family. All statistics show that surrogate motherhood is a practice for almost all heterosexual couples. Therefore, this ban, which we must point out, concerns the whole of society, and not just the LGBT world. On the subject of women, in conclusion, Madam President, I would like to add a comment. The words that characterized the battle on the recognition of rights for same-sex couples are very similar to those that, for years, marked the feminine battles. They are the challenge of a patriarchal order; the claim to be able to plan and manage one's family life outside of models that others want to impose; the awareness that one's private must become public in order to disrupt old models of power. All this, Madam President, we have heard loud echoes in recent days. It is true: a great anthropological change is going through relations between the sexes, but I do not think that one should necessarily be afraid of this. It is an evolution of values that does not at all contradict Christian humanism, which is the essential root of our culture. This reform, Madam President, is driven by the thought of difference, of emancipation, today as it was forty years ago, as it was a century ago and, I think, today as in the future. If we are able to give political recognition and legal status to a new, more inclusive family space, we will have handed over to our children, to all our children, a country that is on their side. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u65	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we must make the last mile. We are just a few steps away from the work that the Senate is called to do on the merits of the amendments and we are in a position to write a beautiful page of history, aware that civil rights are also a valuable resource that contributes to making our country bigger, and finally to recover the historical delay that we have accumulated on this topic compared to other advanced countries in the European and international context; a delay that delegated the protection of the rights of couple of people of the same sex to judges, both in European and national; a delay that our young people, in the time of globalization, do not understand, because they would like to live in an open, welcoming country, that does not close and is not afraid of change. Parliament does not need a secret vote to make this last mile. The secret vote risks becoming a device to cover other maneuvers, other games, which have nothing to do with the merit of the issues we are discussing here and in the country, in the light of the sun, with the contribution of everyone, without fences, without prejudices and unnecessary conflicts, which often are unable to account for their own reasons. I think that the amendments we have offered and will offer to the House's assessment are capable of improving the text of Senator Cirinna's text; a text which is already the result of continuous dialogue, openness, listening in society, politics, parliamentary groups and individual senators. That is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, we propose that we make the last mile transparently, listening to each other again, using the dialogue until the last second and making sure that the House can improve the Cirinna text and write a beautiful page of history. Colleagues, I immediately say that as a Catholic I am not convinced by the repositioning of the old and outdated opposition between laity and Catholics. The civil unions, as it is in the Cirinna text, are placed beyond this sterile conflict. Of course, they present another more modern and understandable one, between those who have a somewhat more conservative approach and those who have a slightly more progressive one. I would like to stress, of course, that every Member of Parliament is the bearer of ideas and motivations that cannot be completely left out of the decisions, of the vote, especially when so particular and sensitive issues are at stake, such as civil unions and the adoption of the children of the same couple. But in a virtuous and productive confrontation responsibility must prevail for the common good of the country, in order to find normative solutions that define a field of rules for those who have decided to live a stable and demanding union. Using Max Weber's thought, we know that in each of us they live with the ethics of conviction and the ethics of responsibility. The ethics of conviction, made up of principles, ideologies, religious references, philosophical conceptions, resides in the heart and culture of the person, but in the parliamentarians at the end the ethics of responsibility must always prevail. I say, not always by paradox, that even if some Members, according to their own ethics of conviction, do not share the fact that they can be couples between people of the same sex, the ethic of responsibility also asks them to provide those couples with a legal framework of reference, that is, to draw a framework of rights and duties within which they can live their lives. According to the ethics of conviction one can also deny legal legitimacy to the couple between persons of the same sex. But, according to the ethic of responsibility, it is right and proper to regulate the phenomenon and not leave it in a context of marginality, disorder or even - as we are accused of all Community law - discrimination according to sexual orientation. In short, the ethic of responsibility helps to give an orientation on one's own tasks to those who want to be a ruling class and accompanies democracies to make a big leap in quality, when in parliaments it is necessary to make complex decisions that divide for the moral and religious convictions, which rightly each of us possesses, defends and promotes. There is a part of Italian society that wants to live in the sunlight its status as a homosexual couple and assume all the responsibilities that this entails. The Treaties, the European Constitution, the Italian Constitution and the numerous judgments of the courts tell us that it is no longer possible to discriminate against people - as I said - according to their sexual orientation. In the face of this present, mature and shared instance in society, what must a Member do? In the face of the jurisprudence of the magistrates, which advances and imposes itself in the daily lives of the citizens, how should the legislator behave? Turn your back, close your eyes, unleash an old ideological conflict? No, that would be a tragic mistake. It is not possible to let the debate run out on this condition. In essence, it must be understood that providing rules is a task that Parliament cannot escape. But, be careful, I too try to reason around civil unions according to the ethics of conviction and must not appear to you in contradiction with what I have said. I know it's a risk. I know that the criticalities are increasing and you can easily get out of the way and trigger zero-sum conflicts, but I want to try the same. From this point of view too, although it includes remarks and concerns, I find no reason to say no to civil unions and the same stepchild adoption. In the 1960s and 1970s, homosexual couples were discriminated against more than today and reacted by questioning, frontally, the institution of the family. They believed that the affirmation of their legitimate rights was contrary to this important and irreplaceable cell of society. Today, grace to God - let me add - is no longer so. People of the same sex ask the State to be recognized as a family, without subverting rules and responsibilities. In short, there is a demand for non-discrimination, equality and full recognition of the role of the family. Isn't that a sign of the times? Isn't it a positive evolution to look at and welcome with interest? Is it not an openness on which to exercise - we would say in religious terms - sound discernment? Slamming the door in the face of this new reality is a tragic mistake. Today, the time is ripe for the progressive push to be sustained to enable, for example, homosexual citizens not to experience hostility or marginalisation when living in their marital status. Society, in the difficult change in the time of secularization, exudes of family demand. This beautiful expression is contained in the sentence of the American Supreme Court, where it emerges that it is not true that the advance of new forms of family is a stumbling block, an attack on the traditional family. Traditional families and new families can be together; they can hold hands and fight together the battles they have to face in order to be fully recognized in their often denied social rights, on which we have a difficulty giving choral and systemic answers [[Applause from the PD Group]] That is why contrasting traditional families with new forms of family and rainbow families is a tragic mistake. That is why in society we must propose a synthesis, a link and new forms of solidarity. And in the proposals that I have heard, even in those that have opposed, there is and can be unity to be gathered, drawn up and proposed together with Parliament, in the evaluation of the amendments, and in society to continue the debate that is good to be held and that will continue in the coming months. Ladies and gentlemen, in essence, civil union can be an extra opportunity for the same family. That's why I think even with this look we can give a reading to the same stepchild adoption. Those who face it from the point of view of the primary interest of the child and of the family's interest in having a more responsible parental role with more duties, which correspond to more rights for rights, in the end studying well, confronting themselves without prejudice and fenced, will discover that the same is the best solution; it is the one that most approaches the encounter between more rights of children and more duties of parents. It is a solution that can hold together the ethics of the responsibility of a Parliament, which must also give a signal in this regard, and the personal convictions of each of us who, around the prime interest of children, finds unity and acceptance throughout Parliament. These are, you know, important hours. I thank Senator Cirinna because, with her stubbornness and determination, she has allowed all of us, today, to be here and to confront ourselves fully and freely. I would also like to thank those who have opposed, those who have made doubts or other solutions, because they have forced me and others - in this case I thank the members of the Commission for the justice of the PD and of the other groups who, for hours and hours, in seventy sessions, have been constantly discussing the text, even in the form of obstructionism, not to lose sight of the substance. Our responsibility is the task we have. I would also like to thank those who, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have helped us to overcome all the obstacles and limitations, as our Parent Company has done. President, it's a good story page. We are ready to write it, and we will write it together, and civil unions will become, together with stepchild adoption, norms of our order and also resources of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u67	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u68	Madam President, I take the floor personally. I apologise to my colleagues but, in the face of such extraordinarily sensitive issues, words, commas, pauses and even breaths have a weight and, therefore, in order not to be betrayed by emotion, I will read. Forza Italia, in accordance with the liberal tradition that has always inspired its action, has decided to recognize freedom of conscience, precisely because of the sensitive aspects of the bill in question; aspects that must question consciences, even before political parties and their disciplines. You see, ladies and gentlemen, in the modern and advanced countries, the debate on the issues on which we are called to decide in this House is a very high point of public confrontation, because civil rights define a country as modern and advanced. In all the nations born and marked by the bourgeois revolutions of the nineteenth century, the genesis of the rule of law and the growth of freedoms have passed on a double track: that of political rights and that of civil and social rights. Through the word 'rights', ladies and gentlemen, we read the history of our geographical Europe, even before politics, and through the conflicts on rights we read the dramatic junctions of the last two centuries: the conquest of political rights, such as the vote, in the age of the irresistible protagonism of peoples on the ground of history; the struggle for social rights from which the compromise of welfare state originates; the battle for civil rights that, in Italy of the economic miracle, comes last, as fruit - finally! - the secularization of customs, true oxygen of the liberal spirit. These are very high issues, which should be a responsible legacy for us, to push the legislator - so all of us - to represent society and its changes with attention and sensitivity. The rights of freedom, like those with which we measure today, we legislators do not invent them, we do not discover them, but we must have the ability to recognize them, in their fullness and at the right time. On the rights of freedom we have the duty to open, as at the best moments of our history, a clear discussion in the intentions and content of the country. Gentlemen of the majority, gentlemen of the Government, I would not be honest if I did not tell you that your way of working makes it difficult for me, in this case, to remain faithful even at this moment to my deep liberal convictions. In fact, you have conducted this passage with a rare mix of intellectual sloppiness and political opportunism, and they do not deserve it, even before this Assembly, those homo-affective couples, those new families that have been waiting for years for our legislation to recognize their rightful rights, as well as the laws of the main European countries: civil unions, precisely. This is in fact a rule that, in its contents, distracts and deceives much more than it grants and recognizes rights of freedom, because it has a very confused genesis in the texts and opaque in the political motivations. The debate would have been much more balanced and focused - in my opinion - if we had started from the text of the bill presented by Senator Caliendo, who is casually sitting next to me, who has certainly made a major contribution on the issue of the recognition of rights. Unfortunately, it has been chosen a whole other way. The legitimate suspicion, which arises from the way the government operates, this rumour, here and now, about civil rights, on the eve of the local elections, which makes us run too much and all too often stumble on sensitive and extremely important aspects of this rule, is that the President of the Council, stung from the left by the debate on the party of the nation, is making an armament on rights - colleagues: precisely on rights! - hiding the contradictions of his policies of government under the carpet of the morettian approach: Let's do something left-handed. However, the rights, colleagues, are not a game that must be played tactically, they are neither right-wing nor left-wing, but deeply affect the living flesh of the country, they touch situations that already exist around us, very close to us, and must be treated with much more respect than the current one. We need less slogans and more respect. It would have been consistent and understandable if the President of the Council had said: I am the Premier of a government not elected by the people, but the result of a parliamentary compromise. Faced with important and divisive issues, we give the country a text with effective and clear contents on civil unions, followed by a complete and satisfactory reform of the discipline on adoptions, adoptions and not on non-legitimate adoptions, stepchild adoption and adoption of the stepson. It would have been clear and would have produced less exasperation and more rights. Those who, like me, are absolutely in favour of the recognition of civil unions and are equally in favour of regulating adoption discipline. No, he didn't: the President of the Council didn't want to stop and listen to the voice of the country. Who knows where the public consultations have ended, which have been and are so dear to him. Even the times, ladies and gentlemen, have a political meaning, the method is also indicative of a culture. I am sure that if the center-right had - forgive me the digression - between a parliamentary passage on constitutional reforms and a vote on civil rights, produced a reshuffle of government, someone would not have missed howling to the commodity and to the sale. And maybe some eyeful reflector of some eyeful attorney of the Republic would magically turn on us; other painful mysteries of recent political history. In this parliamentary term I have often heard Amintore Fanfani, almost as genius loci, who, precisely on divorce, in the name of consistency, resigned, thus ending his political career. Someone at random among whom, today, here supports the majority, but also among those who in these days are very legitimately manifesting vigorous dissent on civil unions and above all on adoptions, is willing to announce that, if his firm principles do not triumph, he will renounce the positions of government he currently holds? Frankly, this show is not up to the discussion that the country expects of us. The imperfections and criticalities, also from the constitutional point of view, to which this text exposes us are not negligible. Just as the political forces and superficiality that have partly accompanied the process are not negligible. And they have not benefited - I must say - in recent weeks the excesses of the Guatemalan President of the Council, so alien to the parliamentary prerogatives that they cannot grasp the difference between the measures for which the Government can and must put in place all its muscle strength and those which, on the contrary, would require many other qualities: comparison, listening, mediation. However, personally - I repeat - the need to affirm a liberal point of advance on rights prevails over dissent and opposition to these practices. We are called to express an orientation that invests together our convictions and our daily perception of our country. Ignoring the reality, the social dynamics that exist and that directly affect the lives of many, as far as I am concerned, is no longer possible. I don't like the ballet of numbers: 500, 1,000, 100,000 children. Homo-affective families exist, have rights that are not recognised - or that are partly recognised by the courts, but so far substantially ignored by the legislator - they have children who cannot be discriminated against. Such rights are not a threat to traditional families, nor will they ever be, but correspond to another equally legitimate and deserving choice of life. In these weeks many media have shown, with plenty of graphics and reproductions, what is the state of the art of the legislation of the various countries, European and not only, compared to civil unions, marriages between people of the same sex, adoptions tout court, that is what we call legitimate adoptions, and stepchild adoption, that is, the adoption of the stepson. Whatever the conviction of each of us, we cannot pretend that Italy does not lag unacceptablely on these issues, in a clear dichotomy with the role that history has assigned to our nation; a delay - we must also remember from the legal point of view, we who are legislators - that the signing of the European Treaties, the Treaty of Lisbon and the Charter of Rights of the European Union requires us to fill up, not to mention the growing legal process of the European Court of Human Rights. As a constitutionalist, even before I was a Member of Parliament, I confess that I would have preferred a different regulatory path, perhaps more advanced. Changing, updating, Article 29 of the Constitution would not only have meant recognizing civil unions as a family form "allowed", "accepted", "possible", but would also have made a real, and not only promised, leap forward to the entire Italian society, modernising a country that too often mirrors itself in the past, hiding not so much and not only the problems, but above all, unfortunately, the evolutionary processes. No overlap between institutions; only the extension of rights to those who, for too long, had too few. The theme is divisive, we cannot and must not Hiding it from us. To think that the reasons may be entirely in one position rather than in another means not wanting to understand the reasons of others. On this point, however, I cannot fail to mention two critical aspects of which I have also spoken with the rapporteur, and I will do so also in the course of the amending process, which the legislator, that is, we, will have to consider from tomorrow. The first aspect concerns marriages of convenience aimed at the fraudulent acquisition of citizenship, to which, if this bill becomes law, will be added civil unions of convenience. It is a phenomenon that, in times of unprecedented migratory flows, cannot be overlooked or even favoured - obviously not in an unwanted way - by the legislator, not even implicitly or subliminally, because of legislation that is not properly updated. The second most serious aspect, which perhaps the General Accounting Authority has a little disconfirmed, is the revision, based on new and realistic calculations of sustainability, of our social security system. A debate on the regulation of survivors' pensions has long been open - as we all know - also results from the substantial differences in the system that the entry into force of the contributory method contemperates. In order to prevent the issue from being addressed exclusively in terms of the material quantification of the audience of those entitled and the automatic addition to the audience of the current entitled of the new ones, I announce the next presentation of a bill to update and make sustainable this reversibility. In conclusion, with all the limitations indicated, with a particular attention subordinate to the openness that the Government will want to make on the amending path, with specific but not exclusive reference to the confused regulation of the adoption of the stepson, I anticipate my orientation of voting in favour of this bill, which I mean as a first draft of response, albeit not completely shared and very messy, to contain a European gap and a regulatory vacuum that can produce legal and social reflections on our national community without a network of protection. It's intolerable. All Italian citizens are part, in full and without distinction, of that perimeter within which our social contract acts, on the basis of which the rights of each of us must find as an insurmountable limit only and exclusively the rights of the other. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Falanga and Romans Paolo. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u69	There is a representation of students and teachers of the Scientific Sports High School in Saronno, in the province of Varese, to whom we address our greetings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally come to debate and - I hope - to vote on a measure that has been awaited for too long. The responsibility for the delay is certainly the centre-right, but even the centre-left could not make it. And it was a mistake, in this legislature, to have led a sterile obstruction in the Commission, in the face of a text that required improvements and, therefore, a real first debate. However, now we are, and we look at the content: the positive and already acquired ones, but also those to be improved or corrected, even radically. Then I will devote a few minutes, before concluding, to the method and the parliamentary path that awaits us in the next few days. As for the method, first of all I want to say that the whole Democratic Party shares the need to give public recognition to the couple of homosexuals. People's rights and duties are not enough. We intend to approve a new legal shop, grafted into the wake of Article 2 of the Constitution. The sense is clear: the State must recognize (as they exist) and must promote (as it is the interest of the community) the forms of affective relationship oriented towards continuity, stability, mutual moral and material aid. From this point of view, sexual orientation is not relevant: it is a good thing that two people are publicly committed to supporting each other, to cohabitation, to fidelity. This form of emotional stability is also worthy of public recognition, as it is capable of building links between the parties and relatives, of ensuring prompt help in the many cases of difficulty, of breaking loneliness. The other issue - and here is the difference with heterosexual marriage - is parenting. The homosexual couple is different because nature (not the laws) excludes that it can generate. The heterosexual couple united in marriage is also oriented to the reproduction and growth of children who are born in the family. The homosexual couple can only want to raise children. That desire to generate and raise children is truly human, but we need to ask ourselves whether this expectation can be transformed into law. In other words, that desire clashes with the expectations of future children who, with surrogate motherhood and, to a lesser extent, heterologous fertilization, see the reduction or cancellation of the primary, essential and indisputable rights. A child who grows up in a homosexual couple, and with stepchild adoption, can be filled with affection and politeness at best, but will not have the certainty of his biological identity; he will not have both biological parents as legitimate parents; he will not have a father and a mother who raise him, but two fathers or two mothers; he will not have, if he lives with two fathers, the comfort of the mother who created him. We cannot then, however, want to deal with how to ensure the best protection for those children, forget the wrongs that they suffer in the ways in which they are conceived, come to the world and have grown up. In short, the claim not to discriminate against adults with respect to the desire for parenthood leads to discrimination against children. It will be objected that heterologous fertilization and surrogacy are also practiced by heterosexuals and it is true, but it is an exception, not a condition. And then we get to the reinforced foster care. To the objections of those who say that the protections are insufficient, we respond that the proposal, signed by about thirty colleagues but which finds a much wider consensus, ensures the full parental function of the tenant and provides for the continuity of affection. Adoption or reinforced leave are not, therefore, two proposals to the antipodes. The advantages of foster care are different. The forces used to procreate are not legitimate; the minor continues to have, from a national point of view, a father and a mother. It is possible to intervene more easily in possible cases of parental inadequacy. Finally, but no less important, the possibility of adopting a third-party child is also excluded with the reinforced care. Today this faculty is not included in the draft law under discussion, but Austrian experience leads us to believe that stepchild adoption can only be the first step towards achieving that outcome. The debate these days, in the media and in the Chamber, have not been lacking contradictions and hypocrisies. I remember some of them, which I think the debate is now revealing, with good peace of those who insist on repeating them. First of all, it has been said: The theme of surrogate motherhood does not arise, since it is already forbidden in Italy, but so we continue to close our eyes on the fact that we are going to do it abroad. Of the two: if you are against, we must vote on the amendments that propose to apply the penalty already provided for those who violate this ban in Italy even to those who receive or organize surrogacy abroad; if you are in favour, we must come to the conclusion: it is proposed to decriminalize the practice. It was then said: I am against surrogate motherhood and together for stepchild adoption, which I think is a great contradiction. The reasoning does not hold, simply because surrogacy, in the case of the couple composed of two males, is the necessary condition to have a child, and having the child in that way is the necessary condition to adopt the partner's son. And then it was repeated again: If children of third parties were allowed to be adopted, the problem would not arise, but it is easy to say that today, in Italy, for every child in a state of adoption there are at least eight married couples who have been applying to adopt him for at least three years. I inform the tears - you will allow me the little irony - that orphanages are no longer there for a long time and that, even in the particular cases provided for by Law No 184 of 1993, singles and unmarried couples can already adopt today. Finally, it has been said, and this was perhaps the greatest of the contradictions: We cannot discriminate against heterosexuals. This has been said to the point of saying that the proposed reinforced foster care would be unconstitutional. I say: I agree not to discriminate, but the risk is on the contrary. Let's take the case of two 60-year-old men entering into civil union. Just after, with surrogate motherhood, they get the child and the partner adopts it, with different differences, in fact, compared to heterosexuals. In fact, they can adopt the child even if born during the civil union, while for straight people, in the adoption for special cases, the child must be the result of a previous relationship; there is not a maximum distance of years between the parents and the child and not even a minimum length of cohabitation, both required instead for the adoption of the child of third parties; there is not a year of preadoptive foster care, i.e. of trial. So much for discrimination. And we come to the third big question: the discipline of living together. I agree that rights such as, for example, the right to visit in the event of illness or otherwise should be recognised. I am less in agreement with the overall system: to regulate cohabitations means to recognize a new legal shop to reality which, because of their own will - they say practically all - do not require to be publicly recognized, as demonstrated by the very limited membership of the municipal halls. Consider that heterosexuals already have marriage and that short divorce facilitates its dissolution. There are also clear contradictions in the text under discussion. For example, the envisaged mutual moral and material aid can - I stress, it must not - be defined through a contract of coexistence, while a real obligation to maintain and feed is only provided for in the event of cessation of living together in fact. It is a bit like saying that the weak cohabitant, who has no income, can be left to hunger, except when the coexistence ends. These and many other contradictions, if confirmed, will make the joy of lawyers, with a dispute that will inevitably lead to cavilling on the contradictions of a part of the ill-written and never-detailed law text. If we recognize coexistence as a true legal shop, we risk making marriage less attractive than choices, at that point legitimized, oriented to affective precariousness and we risk, therefore, not protecting sufficiently the eventual weak contracting party, which instead finds safe protection in marriage. Much better would be to speak in the text of rights and duties of permanently living persons, alongside the possibility of concluding standard contracts on material and property aspects. In conclusion, I cannot forget, coming to the method that has brought us so far, some repeated statements for which only a few PD Catholics with a stomachache were continuing to maintain doubts regarding the magnificent and progressive fate of the bill. Those statements commented on themselves and, however, encouraged us to fight to show that it was not yet another confrontation between the laity and Catholics, that ethical bipolarism should not be reopened and that good arguments can prevail or, at least, find listening. I'll write down one last question. We have noted, by studying the text, that the stepchild adoption would already be approved with the approval of Article 3. An amendment has therefore been tabled in this regard. I note that none of the extensors and signatories of the draft law have so far denied what they have said. I believe in the goodness of the interlocutor, so I expect, before the vote, that good faith in the matter will be publicly assured. To conclude, these beliefs, shared by many colleagues, are not attributable to a obscurantist or fundamentalist design. We know human misery, because we are not exempt. We know that tolerance and respect for the opinions of others are worth at least as much as the defence of one's own. We do not like politically corrects, nor do we like those who interpret trash on the subject; we have not used tactics to treat. Rather, they are balanced beliefs that, in short, intend to give full citizenship to homosexual civil unions; that they want to recognize a parental function to the non-parent partner without legitimizing forcing; that they consider it appropriate to give rights and duties to permanently living persons, but without forcing them into legal forms not required by the most and insidious with respect to matrimonial protection. This, yes, would really be a reformist design. I hope and will work so that this high and just synthesis can still be achieved. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u71	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has made it clear - and the speeches have shown this - that it is contrary to the Cirinna text. The possible differentiations of some do not remove anything from our substantive objection and from our opposition to a text that we consider wrong for the equivalences, of which other colleagues have already spoken, between civil unions and marriage and for the whole issue of adoptions that is becoming the central part of this debate in Parliament and in the country (because it is). We therefore believe that Parliament should give serious thought, even in the light of the debate outside the Palace. In fact, we record a dichotomy between the media representation and also the parliamentary debate and the sensitivity of the country. On adoptions (about 68, 70, 80 percent) surveys are variable but unique in indicating a clear prevalence of Italians opposed to adoptions, either in the form of the adoption of the stepchild adoption or even in the even wider possibility of other types of practices. On the contrary, if one looks at the media representation and also the discussion in the political world, this idea of the country is treated in an absolutely distorted and distorted way. We also want to contest the mistake that President Grasso made when he called the Members (I am among them) who raised a conflict of attribution, noting that Article 72 of the Constitution was violated in connection with the examination in the Commission that there was not. President Grasso should have noticed, before making jokes that made him look like an aspiring Don Rodrigo who, however, turned out to be a Don Abbondio, that the text that we are now amending is not what he had been in the Commission for a long time, but it is another text that in fact there has never been in the Commission. Therefore, when some remarks are made as President of the Senate, care must be taken not to say wrong and false things. There are many issues that emerge; I will mention some of them in this debate, then in the amendments we will enter into the substance. How many children are affected by this adoption of the stepson? I heard scary numbers: that would be 100,000. Then, if you see the ISTAT data, the families are over 14 million, while those who in the last census have declared to be gay cohabitations are about 7,000 and these minors have been quantified by ISTAT in 500. It is not that legislation is being done for extreme cases, but that even with the adoptions law (which we could also deepen and resume) they can be examined to find solutions. Nobody wants existing people to suffer and be marginalised, but legislation on the extreme case is not being done: it has to deal with the fundamental issues and then for extreme cases there must be safeguards, as it can happen, entrusted to the judiciary. I've heard of colleagues talking about the Middle Ages. Will you stop speaking in this language? There is an intolerance of those who are posing as exclusive supporters of unions, which we, too, believe should be regulated. In fact, for many years our groups and the center-right have said that cohabitations between homosexuals must find their definitions of rights, many of which are already guaranteed. As for the inheritance, but do you know that the legitimate part, which should be reserved for the spouse if you are married and have children, is only a third? Today anyone can give much of his fortune to anyone and not just to a homosexual cohabitant. The same applies to other matters that have been recited by feeding lies and lies. We are not the advocates of the Middle Ages and it is not that modernity is an anthropological misrepresentation of life and of the family. I would also like to say to those in this House: I would like to inform you that we have all been born from the meeting of a man and a woman, so we have not been born differently. If anyone has been brought by the stork tell us and we, who as children hoped that that was the truth, will take note of it, but so it is. Natural law is not the Middle Ages: it is called natural law that part where law takes from nature a reality that the norm cannot modify. We can change a criminal penalty, we can enact a urban law, we can do many things; natural law is that part of the law that takes back what is unchangeable from the norm, so the law absorbs it. Even the birth of life is not a religious fact. I am a believer and claim the right to be a believer. I thank Antonio Polito that the other day, distinguishing himself from the choir, on the insert "Seventh" of January 29th of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) said that a point of view also of Catholics, of another part, of squares that have manifested peacefully, is an important point of view, because - as Polito says - society discusses, Parliament listens, but then decides freely. This is how we proceed in a mature democracy, we don't put a gag on anyone. It is not permissible to do all that can be done. Today science allows us to clone: what do we do, clone the beautiful, intelligent, strong and robust ones and the others that are not, we throw them out of the Tarpea cliff? It is obvious that it opens up to eugenics, with some forms of aberration. That is also what we are denouncing in this debate. There are a series of lies. It is said that this law does not imply the uterus for rent; actually, starting from stepchild adoption and encouraging couples who are not in a position to generate life, this practice will feed on. The fact that heterosexuals do so does not make this less serious: it must be punished. On the contrary, I wonder: if there are sanctions in Law No 40 of 2004, quote me a case of people who have been sanctioned. It means that those rules are not enough; let us strengthen them then, if we believe that the uterus for rent is an aberration. Or does anyone think that's normal? There is, in fact, someone who believes that life can be manipulated, that an extreme form of prostitution can be achieved, as Minister Lorenzin said, with the purchase of lives. If you buy a child, then you can also sell it. I buy these glasses and I can sell them, I buy this pen and I can sell it; if I buy a child and get tired or the child behaves badly, what do I do, I sell it? We are touching truly aberrant aspects. We do not share, therefore, the encouragement of this assimilation to marriage. The legislation must be correct; members of the Democratic Party also say so. When we say that there is equalisation between marriage and civil union, it is not a view of the Middle Ages, as some people say, annoying and biased: colleagues in the Democratic Party have also tabled amendments to remove from the text so-called Cirinna the references to the civil code that create this overlap and confusion. It's not just us, then, to say that. Senator Caliendo presented another bill, much better and much more mature, but evidently another way has been chosen. It is therefore a lie to say that it does not involve the uterus for rent. Today Senator Finocchiaro proposed to make a motion to engage in the fight against the uterus for rent: so the problem is there. There has been an international meeting, there is a world charter against the uterus for rent, the association if not now when left feminists launched a very strong appeal a few months ago. A director, I think her name is Comencini, said: A mother is not an oven. If I had said so, they would have said: "Gasparri, how does she speak?" But a left-wing director said so, so you can say. It's not an oven where you program the birth of something you sell. So if Senator Finocchiaro also proposes a motion, then, excuse me, we make an amendment instead of the motion. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Giovanardi and Liuzzi]] We all agree, we strengthen the ban. They say it's already written, but I don't see the sanctions, I don't see how it's being prosecuted, then how many things are recalled in more laws in Italy? If this thing, so important (to prevent the sale of children), we write it also in another law - perhaps better - I don't see a legislative overeaction in a country that of laws and repetitions, less noble than this, has many. The other lie, which I hear so many times, is that of those who say: Do you want to leave an abandoned child in an orphanage? Isn't it better that I'm with a gay couple than an orphanage? The relationship between applications for adoption of heterosexual couples and children to be adopted is seven to one, according to some statistical surveys: there is a question from heterosexual couples of adoptions greater than the number of children living in a marginalization condition. Let's speed up the rules, let's see how it works, let's try to do what is called imitatio naturae, as the law says, that is, adoption by a heterosexual couple, because it reproduces the natural condition of birth. My colleagues have already mentioned opinions of pediatricians and psychologists who have had a lot of discussion in recent days, who have reiterated the need for growth with a father and a mother. I'm not here to repeat things that I think are obvious; if nature is done this way there will be a reason. There is a whole pedagogical aspect that many studies have dealt with and that in recent days the president of the Italian Society of Pediatricians has reiterated; they immediately attacked it and then it has been said that it has turned back: it has not turned back, but it has been submerged by the usual hostile media campaign, which prevents to defend principles of natural law with a minority intolerance that becomes prevarication. As regards adoptions, therefore, it is not true that there are children who would be abandoned: we facilitate adoption procedures. Mr Giovanardi has so often raised the problem of the current management of the relevant offices. It is said, then, that there are donations of one's own body that are made out of friendship, out of pure generosity: a person decides to bring a child into the world for a homosexual couple. Apart from the fact that it is unbelievable, but it is even worse, because if a poor or struggling woman did such a thing she should be rescued and helped, because she would be so desperate to do something against nature and herself. So his despair probably deserves not prison, but humanitarian aid; the buyer, if anything, deserves prison. Worse is when you do it because your son is one thing: you give birth and give. It is not an object, we have said it several times: there is no right to motherhood; it is the child who is entitled to a family, after which if a person cannot have children he will not have them. Or if you feel a need to assist and help (I think of so many great artists that have been talked about these days) you get charity, the world - especially entire villages of the Third World - is full of poor children: they spend a few million euros earning to make more smiling the lives of so many desperate children instead of buying one or two in California for a fee because the ways of generosity can be many for those who can. [[Ironic applause from Senator Saggese]] So, there are so many lies. Many Presidents of the Constitutional Court have expressed their views on this subject, which are of various orientations. Flick also reiterated the importance of the previous judgment of 2010; Ugo De Siervo said this sentence, which I quote: Let's be clear: with the "stepchild adoption" you grant the right to a natural father to extend parenthood to those who want him. I really do not see the protection of a child's right. Another President of the Court, Cesare Mirabelli, who made so many statements and observations on the relevance of the 2010 Constitutional Court ruling, says that an account is marriage, another account are other types of unions that can be regulated, but that are not marriage and cannot involve parenthood. This says the sentence; let's reread it, let's think about it when we go to legislate. Of Cesare Mirabelli I could make many extensive quotations regarding references to the Constitution. All this to say that there is cultural pluralism with calls from very important lawyers. Gaetano Silvestri, who does not belong to the cultural sphere to which Mirabelli belongs, clearly said that one account is civil unions, another is marriage, referring to Article 3 of the Constitution. But then he spoke of other issues, saying: I would avoid specific references to articles of the Civil Code concerning marriage in order to prevent the interpretation of this different legal institution from being completely equal to marriage. Civil unions must have their own discipline, and not merely refer to the rules governing marriage; and it goes on to say that the principles to which we must refer are first and foremost those of the Italian Constitution (Articles 29 and 2). Gaetano Silvestri and other leading figures in our culture of constitutional law say so. On the motherhood and nature of children there are international declarations: the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that in the field of motherhood and children there are special rights to be protected; the 1989 Convention of the Rights of the Child states that both parents have a common responsibility for the education of the child. Another international declaration of 1959 states that, except in exceptional circumstances, the young child should not be separated from the mother. The European Parliament on 17 December 2015 (so recently) intervened further to condemn the practice of surrogacy, which undermines the human dignity of women, given that their body and reproductive functions are used as commodities, and continues with a resolution that - I imagine - has been adopted with great importance. We are discussing - there was a conference in Paris a few days ago - these issues for the World Charter which wants to abolish the scourge of surrogacy. So it is not true that this has nothing to do with what we are doing, and if it really has nothing to do with it, then I repeat what I said before: what difficulty is there to reiterate clear and clear prohibitions and positions that are above all to protect women, who are the weak players in this market? If you don't want to do it, you're in a bit of a bad faith. Of course, motions aren't denied to anyone. Let's decide here and now; if not now when - I would like to say, by making my name the association - decide on these things? Colleagues, we have to clarify Article 3 for a series of references to family law, which must be corrected. There is not only Article 5 on adoptions, there are a number of references to Article 3; we will discuss this when we come to the amendments. So now I don't want to go into a precise and precise description, but there are a number of references in Article 3 that need to be clarified, and that I think other groups too - not just Forza Italia - intend to change to avoid this. We have at heart the interest of the minor who cannot be overlooked. Then it will be said that there are other rights: let us recognize them, let us regulate them, let us proceed in this direction, but the idea that the transformation of the origin of life is modern is something that we must reject in cultural terms. Modern what then? I said it before, then we get to eugenics: beautiful, healthy, strong and reproduces. Today science has created so many innovations, but it is not that all that can be done theoretically then can be done. I do not say the debate between science and faith, but between science and law - let us put it on a more secular level - is important. There are not those who want to condemn Galileo and the bearers of modernity. Attention! Days ago I saw that in England they authorized experiments on embryos. It is a question that is always discussed: how far science must go to fight evil, which is something indispensable, and where then we arrive at forms of aberration. We must accept life for what it is and we must not think of manipulation. In recent days, some have reiterated that modernity is not this form of anthropological revolution and upheaval. I hope that from this debate we can come out with amendments aimed at this text, with the total provision of the issue of adoptions, with the cancellation of the equalization between marriage and civil union which, as many distinguished lawyers and former presidents of the Constitutional Court have said, would create an injury to Article 29 of the Constitution. I do not recall - other Members have already done so before me - the debate of the Constitutional Times. Some say that we are now in another phase and that the family is where love is; then if they love each other in five, six or seven, what is it? Attention, my friends. No one goes around pursuing de facto unions, cohabitations and anything else, but I believe that from here we have to transform the right and the principles of fundamentals. That is what we absolutely must avoid. They reflect on the reaction of opinion in this House that there has been in the country. There have been initiatives that have led to many debates. I do not believe that some parties have said at random that they are leaving freedom of conscience. They may have seen that their voters have different ideas. We have made a clear choice: we are against this text; we want to change the equality between marriage and civil union; we want to eliminate all parties that concern adoptions; we are in favour of regulating the rights of homosexuals' cohabitation because we do not want discrimination, but we do not want discrimination on the contrary or forcing the debate for which those who support these aspects are a obscurantist and an ignorant from the Middle Ages. Modernity is not genetic and scientific manipulation, the alteration of the relationship between mother, father and son. Of course, there are exceptions like orphaned children. There are children who lose their parents, but they are traumas and exceptions. We must not turn parenthood into something that is traded and can be acquired anyway: it is not a car, a refrigerator or something that must be flaunted. I very much appreciate the positions of many people of homosexual orientation; they were the first to say that one account is the rights they claim and other are the claims of parenthood, which the wisest and most responsible people do not claim. We have not taken a obstructive attitude because we want everyone to assume their responsibilities. The Forza Italia Group had initially tabled 260 amendments. If we have to reduce the number we have no problem as long as the discussion is, as is being done so far, serious, thorough and done listening also to the country and its sensibilities. It is not only a problem of traditions: it is the interpretation of real law, of what a family is, the birth of a life. I believe that true modernity consists in defending this kind of values. There is also another modernity. I've seen a lot of positive modernity on Family Day. We have a problem of zero growth, of insufficient policies for the family, of difficulties for all governments in making adequate and sufficient fiscal policies for families with children. Marcello Veneziani said recently that we should encourage birth and make a cultural movement that favors the birth of people, of life and businesses and not be so gloomy in thinking about zero growth, the fact that there are no more children born, that close companies and that there is no work. The discussion of this law must also be a reason for reflection to ensure that the idea of birth, of a nation that does not disappear, is won, because, in the end, if certain models are adopted, there will be no zero growth, but the end of life: the world would not exist. The State introduced the protection of the family into the Constitution; without the family oriented to the birth of children, who may or may not come, without the future and the new generations there is no longer the State and even that Constitution would no longer concern anyone because there would no longer be the people to whom that Constitution speaks. So let us face this debate with seriousness and maturity, on the substance, because on it depends the future of our nation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u75	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I was registered to speak earlier, but unfortunately, on institutional matters, I had to abstain from this House. Therefore, by fully associating myself with what my colleague, Senator Lepri, said in his speech, I would ask you to allow me to submit the written text of my speech, so that it may be published in the Annex to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Orlando, I wish to express a feeling, which I have had since the beginning of the debate on civil unions, namely that, in my opinion, the link between the real country and the legal country is confirmed. What we are saying in this House appears to be far from the feeling of the social bodies, partly engaged in social networks, partly distracted by other concerns, partly afraid of expressing an opinion, being absorbed by the complexity of the matter. The political class therefore has the opportunity to redeem itself, being able to legislate well and better. The bill Cirinna represents for our country a real legal and social revolution. For the first time, not only is the idea of the marriage on which our civilization is based weakened - this weakening has already been in place for some decades - but a new legal form and a new essential criterion are introduced in the public definition of the relationship between two persons. Although the bill Cirinnà, in its new draft has deleted almost all explicit references to marriage, all references to articles of the civil code, which regulate marriage itself, including that concerning the same discipline of separation and divorce, are kept instead, designed to dissolve a marriage bond and not different social formations. The substantial equivalence of civil unions with the institution of marriage exposes the provision to censures of constitutional legitimacy, because, despite the formal proclamation of civil union, as a specific social formation, it is basically a similar marriage. In proceeding for superimposition with the institution of marriage, the bill goes further, sanctioning also the obligation of cohabitation between the parts of the civil union. Not only that: I would like to stress that in the last draft of the bill in question is unusually absent any reference to the presence of a specific and qualifying emotional bond, which should characterize the union between persons of the same sex. I mean that if two people who love each other want to be able to have protection and mutual assistance, it is absurd to prevent it: a secular state cannot and must not do so. If we then want to call "marriage" this civil union, however intuitively contrasts with the concept that we have historically and anthropologically and that the Constitution indicates, let's say that it could happen without any particular problems. Now, allow me to say that the paradox of current confrontation is to see two attitudes that are, in both cases, ideological and wrong: one is that of those who believes that they must defend, through a unique conception of traditional marriage, the natural idea of family; the other is that of those who, in the name of legitimate individual rights, want to expand the concept of family, making it surreptitiously part of the concept of marriage extended to civil unions. It is clear, therefore, that we climb two different paths to define marriage: on the one hand, we aim to separate the concept of marriage from that of a natural family, where with this expression we refer to a union that establishes on a social level the legal condition of parenthood (a father and a mother), but on the other hand we introduce the possibility that two persons who by objective biological and anthropological condition cannot generate children, are in condition, if they decide to engage publicly, to have the same reciprocal rights and the same reciprocal duties of two heterosexual spouses. In order to overcome the Italian bans, for some years now a real procreative tourism has developed towards those countries, in particular towards Spain, where access to these techniques is free and allowed. In such cases, the child will be registered by the biological mother or biological father, will have an unknown parent as a donor of seed or surrogate mother who has renounced the child and there will be a third person, spouse or cohabitant of the biological parent, who provides for registration, biologically foreign to the child and who, by virtue of the amendment introduced by Article 5 of the Cirinna bill, will be able to boast the formal recognition of his parent being. The problem, however, is that we talk about adoption as if it were an ideal condition while that of abandonment on the part of the parent is a situation of suffering for which men and women offer their lives trying to remedy it and giving it courageously and generously their maternal and paternal love. Don Antonio Iapicca, in a letter to the participants of the Family Day, wrote: "A son is not only the mysterious fruit of pleasure; he often appears when you least expect him, between the folds of a relationship that seems to waste in dryness. A son is the result of a journey of sacrifices, defeats and forgiveness, on which the spouses experience the beauty of love. Every mother, giving birth, cried out the pain of love; and even a woman who gives birth earns a living, or, if you prefer, who gives her uterus to those who do not have it, will carry forever the memory of that pain to which she will not know how to give meaning, and sooner or later she will overflow from her heart by flooding her life. Elisa Anna Gomez, for example, one of the many testimonies that I have had to listen to these days, in 2006, finding herself in a difficult economic situation, has agreed to become a surrogate mother for $8,000 for a gay couple eager to have a child; a difficult decision and of which she has terribly repented. She herself admitted to having made a wrong decision that will mark it forever. This is what we should not allow and to which the initial call for policy to legislate well refers. Pope Francis, a few days ago, explained that the family is a permanent and supreme metaphysical form of the realization of human life which requires a stable and indissoluble marriage; failing, however, a unique legal concept, it is useless to radicalize the clash in the political sphere, perhaps sacrificing us above the very value of the family and its needs. The Pope also stated that he firmly believes that if the family becomes strong again, natural and constitutional marriage will also be strong. This is what politics should address today, the family without sterile ideologies of conservation and without devastating in a revolutionary and contradictory way its meaning in the name of the rights of adults who end up becoming child abuse motivated only by pure and simple personal selfishness. It is a question of optics: firstly, the rights of children, secondly, the rights of adults. Having an ethical and social vision of the family today requires the guarantee of a statute that, beyond marriage, looks at the demographic and economic aspect. We must support births and to do so we must ensure that marriages are safeguarded and supported. In this respect, the Conservatives and Reformists Group has tabled amendments aimed at promoting and defending the family and motherhood, such as the VAT exemption and the total deductibility for IRPEF purposes of household expenditure. France has chosen to invest in birth, Germany has done the same and in the same way many other countries do it; why, when we resort to the so-called civil countries in the matter of civil union, do we not also refer to good practices in favour of the family that they practice abroad? Ladies and gentlemen, a great man once said: When the institution of marriage is abandoned to human selfishness and reduced to a contemporary and conditional agreement, which can easily be terminated, we will react by affirming the indissolubility of the marriage bond. When the value of the family is threatened by social and economic pressures, we will react by reaffirming that the family is necessary not only for the private good of every person, but also for the common good of every society, nation and state. This was how Pope John Paul II spoke. Allow me, Madam President, to make one final point. Returning to the issue of adoptions, i.e. stepchild adoption, I take cultural heritage for example. Ladies and gentlemen, you may wonder what they have to do with this. Progressive social blocs often hegemonically use environmental issues of landscape protection as discriminations of left and right policies. Frankly, I don't value this absurd division. Well, at the basis of the protection of tangible and intangible public and private goods, defined as cultural goods and human heritage, there is the recognition of roots as a fundamental element of identity. Now, it seems absurd that decades of battles in favour of the search for historical, ethnic, anthropological and artistic roots are a value to be safeguarded for the development of communities and individuals and the enormous questions, existential voids, the riddle of the origin of life and of those who gave us life are underestimated. This will happen when we favor, surreptitiously, the adoption of a being by parents classified A and B, with the greatest contempt of the biological parent, relegated to the mere function of surrogate and with good peace of those roots eradicated and the heavy questions that will accompany forever a child, that adult, that elder, who will live dramatically in search of the roots and of himself. [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi and Milo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u77	Senator Davico is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is even unnecessary to stress that all possible life options deserve equal respect and consideration. Having said that, political decisions must lay down, as we are going to do, the various sensibilities must be taken into account, but first of all they must establish the uniform general principles which arise from an open and respectful debate of the rights of all, independent of sex, census, sexual orientation, religious orientation, but also independent of lobbying demands of this or that pressure group. What we are looking at here today, however, is a measure that gives rise to confusion and evil for the future of our legislation. In essence, the issues dealt with by the Cirinnà bill appear too many and too different to be all included in a single text, which would risk to legislate only partially and thus leave still in the limbo of numerous uncertainty, too many families and affectiveness of every type and form. It is certainly beyond doubt that the matter of affective unions should be regulated. However, I will explain below the reasons why we Moderati for Renzi believe that we need to find a way to legislate on civil unions only, and to refer to a different legislative formulation both the standardization of organic and structured reforms that concern the adoptions of children and the recognition of couples in fact. I will explain why it would be a censorable aberration to pass this legislative formulation as it is currently written and on which, apparently, the majority of which the Government is an expression (Government to which we moderates did not fail to support other and disparate proposals) does not want to confront. But the talent, someone said, lies in the choices and we choose not to be seduced from the prevailing point of view of the media, precisely because the political correctness must not push us to create some sort of discrimination on the contrary. In a number of speeches in this House, I have heard Members say that we are legalizing to allow two individuals to form a family unit and regularise their affection. That's not it! Dear colleagues, this is not the case: in Article 1 of this draft law, in fact, it is precisely specified that the provisions of the first chapter constitute the civil union between persons of the same sex as specific social formation, therefore they are in no way civil unions between persons of different sex. It is only in Article 11 that we read about the actual coexistences which, as it appears crystal clear, would have a different force already in the law that we are forming in these hours. Is this not a reverse discrimination? Having said that, which already gives the sign of the dangerous flight forward generated by the present law for its evil and confused formulation, what really does not find place and in our way of view must not find place, under penalty of our convinced rejection of the entire law, is the forecast of article 5 of the bill. First of all, Law No 184 of 1983 had as its aim to allow those in a state of adoption to find a place in a family environment able to guarantee their protection, education, growth and care. In particular, article 44, paragraph 1, has been thought of as a real exception to the current regulation in the matter of adoption. Applying this exception to new homosexual civil unions today without organically reordering the entire discipline seems simply inappropriate, as well as leading to further discrimination and inequality. To this it is added that, not being physically able to exist a natural son within the homosexual couple, it is evident that the partner's son should come from a previous heterosexual relationship, or from the artificial insemination with implant in the uterus of one of the two partners, if not through the illicit practice of the uterus for rent with donation of a male gamete. We have collected the solicitations expressed this morning by Senator Finocchiaro and it is precisely because of the need to pay attention to the adoption of the child and to the absolute prohibition that must concern the practice of the uterus for rent that we consider inconceivable the approval of this bill, which would inevitably open the door to borderline situations, not to say dangerous, without there being adequate legislation in this regard, able to prevent abuses of all sorts. It is clear that allowing the adoption by a third party with respect to the partner's son could "give way" to a series of issues of legal and ethical nature, which would address entirely on the table of those who will be called in the future to apply daily the discipline of civil unions, placing several questions of legitimacy with decisions, among other things, and it is not a small detail, potentially different and discordant from one forum to another. What is more, ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of precise legislation on the regulation of artificial insemination and the practice of renting wombs, opening up to adoption by homosexual couples would mean ratifying and accepting these practices, without even providing guiding principles in such a sensitive matter. The question of the case of a homosexual couple seeking a third woman to obtain a child and to seek and obtain adoption in Italy is explanatory to this appalling practice; what right will apply to the protection of the natural mother if she claims her parenthood? The practice of the uterus for rent, being not regulated in a specific way by our order does not arise either as forbidden, or as admitted: in either case the consequences could be very different for both the parents and the children concerned. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me be comforted in this speech by the words of a friend, Monsignor Fisichella, who has followed us for many years and accompanied us with attention and respect in our role as parliamentarians. He objected - I quote pedissequamente - that: When the subject or individual finds himself living in a society, he must be able to renounce his rights and enter into a relationship in which his rights are legislated by the legislator, who is given the right to do so. Lawmakers enjoy legitimacy. We have given ourselves a democratic system that allows parliamentary representation to decide for everyone. If we had not given ourselves this system, we would be in a tyranny or a monarchy or even a totalitarianism and so on. (...) None of us decide for ourselves. That's the big problem. We would only decide for ourselves if we lived in the four walls of the house. But it's not like that. This is a utopian vision of civil life. We live within a continuous relationship with people, we live within a family, which is not only our own, small and personal - that is, what we have formed ourselves - but it is the largest one, that of a society within which each of us is located. Having concluded the quotation from a prelate who had a great deal to do with the century, ladies and gentlemen, should I remind you that it is this society that today asks us, on issues such as this, for a revolutionary caution and a secular, egalitarian, pluralistic and respectful clarity? [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u79	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scavone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a long general debate is continuing, which has been engaging us for a few days now. We've heard so many voices and so many good arguments. Of course, I would like to try to add to my thoughts this evening, by making clear the suffering of conscience, the conscience of a man who lives a real life in the 21st century, the conscience of those who have the responsibility, speaking in this House, to vote for an important law and, as far as possible, respectful of the desires of people who have a heart and soul and fundamentally respectful of the most important humanity we have to look at: children. Trying to find the right legislative path on social and ethical issues brings out contradictory feelings, doubts and difficulties in each of us, which increase listening to opposing arguments and reasons. We often hear in this House a list of references to concrete facts and real-life situations, which characterize most of the debates on ethical issues and which, however, lead us to approve and listen to a part of reason in each of them. Eventually, each of us in conscience will have to give a fair vow. To be more concrete, I realize that homosexual unions constitute a reality in the daily life of our society, with or without biological children of one or both partners. Some of them are also part of my relational world, which I live with absolute serenity, without prejudice or wonder. Taking into account what is happening in society, however, does not mean sic et simpliciter regulatory acquiescence, it does not mean finding a blanket that is tailored to the reality that has nevertheless been determined, but rather means understanding changes and customs, in an attempt to predict their effects in the long and medium term. Homosexual relations, however, are certainly not a novelty of our time, but they have always been there. In the ancient world and in classical antiquity they were often an initiation to adult life (we have many results), to the beginning and to the cultural and military training. Homosexual unions existed for educational purposes as well as for emotional purposes. Just remember Achilles and Patroclus, Alessandro Magno and Efestion, as well as the poetess Saffo, instructor who came to our Sicily, to Akragas, to form many girls with whom she had the habit of initiation of homosexual type. However, while this reminds us of history (we are in a pre-Christian phase), no one, even at that time, ever thought of changing the natural order present in the cosmos. In fact, the couple formed by a man and a woman, like it or not, is the only custodian of this procreative ability. The Greeks themselves considered marriage so important that at the time they had criminal laws that even struck those who had arrived at marriage too late or what we would call today a choice of many, celibacy. Marriage, ever since, was something else. In fact, I remind myself, compliance with the natural order is not what happens simply in nature, but basically what corresponds to the intrinsic aims of nature. The undeniable existence of homosexual attractions, as well as homosexual loves, with everything that involves as a project of life, stable coexistence, help, mutual assistance, desires and aspirations, and also the desire to have and care for children, does not only determine compliance with the natural order. Some authoritative voices in this Assembly have stated that, with the evolution of society and the changing of customs, civil marriage has lost the connotation of being functional to procreation, in fact becoming an association at the service of individual happiness, and for this reason in recent decades the stable heterosexual unions have multiplied, surpassing the million in 2014, according to ISTAT, while the marriages celebrated have been reduced (truly, a decrease of just over 4,300 marriages). If this is true, a society that wants to move forward with its own identity cannot give up firm and clear points in legal terminology. The question is always that: are all social phenomena in themselves worthy of legal protection? Which of these can be and in what ways? Are all the emotional aggregations found in society to be protected? Are the individuals who determine them always to be considered centers of attribution of rights? In our society there are affective aggregations formed not only by two people, but also by three or four people, heterosexuals and homosexuals, and all, also them, share projects of life, desires and aspirations, including that of having or caring for children. Obviously I do not judge, I cannot afford and I do not intend to do so, but I take note and I am aware of the existence of these other realities; I welcome them and respect them. I am also certain that the person, the individual with all his wealth and diversity, his problems, his anguish, his wounds, his joys and his desires must first of all be at the basis of our action. First of all the person, but it would be a trouble as legislators to think that, by virtue of this, everything deserves legal protection. Our society is in danger of becoming really excessively liquid, without stable anchors, a society where everything is possible even in the name of excellent values, such as love, love among individuals, love of parents for children. Perhaps in the name of love it is possible to understand everything, in its most dilated form however, that is the caritas. It is possible to understand everything, but certainly not everything can become the right of the individual to be regulated and protected. On the other hand, I believe that good, if done badly, is not good. Can the aspiration of a homosexual couple to have children, not foreseen in nature, go beyond the category of an aspiration that is certainly legitimate and invade the ground of the right to become parents, even in the form of adoption of the partner's child? As far as partnerships between individuals are concerned, we can only talk about marriage to the extent that there is a sexual difference between people. Any other hypothesis is another thing. However, this concept, as we have already heard in this House, because it was mentioned this morning by a very authoritative colleague (who, for the truth, unlike me, considered it ironed), has been reiterated by the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 138 of 2010, where he states that Article 3 of the Constitution (Equality of Citizens) is respected, since the entire discipline of marriage contained in the civil code and in special legislation postulates the diversity of sex of spouses in the framework of a well-established and ultra-millennial notion of marriage. It has also been said, by quoting some journalistic titles, that Europe has condemned Italy to recognize the matrimonial rights of homosexuals. That is not true. Europe has done something else. The news of the conviction is true, but it is compensation. The Court does not state, as some have reported (probably in good faith), that it is also necessary to recognize in Italy the marriage between persons of the same sex. The Court of Strasbourg has only found that a delay in the adoption of a law guaranteeing any form of protection causes damage to persons. The Court has said that and nothing else. I do not think anyone can escape the fact that the Cirinna bill has moved in the right and appropriate direction, precisely for the reasons mentioned by the Court of Strasbourg, namely the recognition of civil unions between persons of the same sex, but it has used an incorrect method. In fact, instead of drawing up a separate legislation, different from the matrimonial institution, he introduced a fictio iuris: on the one hand he identifies civil unions between persons of the same sex as a social formation, then by analogy, but contradictoryly, he explicitly recalls all the references of the civil code provided for the family, which has as its basis the mating of man and woman. Even with regard to stepchild adoption, as referred to in Article 5, of which we continue to speak so much, we must not give in to the temptation to consider individual cases that have already received appropriate attention from the courts. One thing is the concrete case, perhaps of our direct knowledge, another thing is to introduce into the order a rule that, by definition, must be general and abstract and that could open the way to the encouragement (beyond what we think and that we still have to do to complete the legal path of these aspects) of prohibited practices in Italy as often recalled surrogacy. If this rule were to remain free of filters and embankments, unfortunately there would be no guarantee that a provision of law, which was born with the best intention of providing another parent (and therefore the continuity of affection) to a minor who had been deprived of the natural parent, could be used for other purposes certainly less noble. I wonder: is there an absolute right to be parents? From my point of view, the answer is no. There is a child's right to have a family that warms him up, loves him and educates him. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have a duty to regulate and protect homosexual unions, but I also believe that the bill Cirinna, in its current wording, does not fulfil its purpose, because it uses interpretative criteria to equate institutions that cannot be homogeneous (marriage and homosexual unions), when instead we require separate legislation from marriage. Otherwise, this bill poses itself as an authentic ontological and legal force. I therefore believe that the debate should not, and cannot, end quickly, by quickly giving way to the iron and steel wing in the final votes. We need an effort of mutual understanding, in light of the fact that the wall against the wall is of no use to anyone. The solution to meet the expectations of homosexual couples is there, but it is a different solution, which does not look by analogy to the rules on marriage. And I want to be positive and optimistic. I believe that this bill can be an opportunity for all of us to take good action on this matter. Excellent amendments have been tabled by all the political parties which, appropriately introduced into the text, can remedy the original vice of the prediction of stretched automatisms. I therefore hope that the phase of examination of the amendments will be fruitful and induce us to remove such a delicate matter from the mere counting of numbers, without the complex of appearing obscure and backward in the eyes of Europe; a phase free from evidence of strength, to be reserved for other measures even refounding our democracy, but obliging us to a rigorous and responsible rereading to reaffirm the beauty and linearity of a text worthy of the great tradition of justice of our country. The battle on which we are confronting ourselves is that of true freedom and not that of a hasty illusion of freedom. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u81	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the regulation of civil unions between persons of the same sex and the discipline of cohabitations is broad and articulated, for the ethical-social-political dialectic, certainly complicated and conflictual, for the copiousness of legislative discipline, for the elaboration in doctrine and jurisprudence, for the various requests to the judicial authority by couples of persons of the same sex. For example, it is sufficient to recall the requests for the transcription of weddings celebrated outside Italy, transcriptions of birth certificates formed abroad of children born following artificial fertilization techniques, recognition of foreign adoption judgments pronounced in favour of the spouse of the child's parent and, not least, the admission of uniform legal situations between homosexual unions and heterosexual unions, up to the hypothesis of a marriage between persons of the same sex. Excluding the obvious progressive-conservative, lay-Catholic, enlightened-obscurantist contrasts, we use clear and respectful words of everyone and of everyone, according to a concrete humanism, without excluding humanity improperly considered peripheral, without intolerances or prejudices. Intolerances, such as rejection of dialogue with preconceived hostility. Prejudices, as opinions that reason does not want to examine. Then an open, supportive, co-responsible argument, recognizing itself in the common horizon of sense of the connatural complexity of human existence, because there is secularity if one knows how to recognize what is truly universal. Arguments, I must stress, suggested by a cure for the human in the integral vision that does not include at all the lexicon of discrimination. In every person, whatever sexual orientation, an ontological dignity is inscribed. No one gives himself the right to deny anything fundamental to anyone; and equally, no one upholds rights over others, much less over a minor. To us senators, the heavy task, the complicated task, perhaps the reckless burden of establishing rules that have balance and reasonableness as their guide; rules that correspond to the rights of every citizen and to his duties towards every other citizen. An additional commitment to dialogue and confrontation is absolutely necessary, but bringing only and only reasons, because using the theme of civil unions as a means of establishing itself on ideological positions or marking limits of belonging does not help to legislate, precisely, with balance, objectivity and equity. Recourse to freedom of conscience, as has already been pointed out for a few weeks, favours a parliamentary openness to confrontation and overcoming the binding disciplines of party, proving that there is no absolute bond of majority but is even more a manifest assumption of responsibility in organizing coexistence. Parliament, above all on this matter, is sovereign. I hope that freedom of conscience can manifest itself more with a clear vote, limiting the use of the secret vote that could lend itself to other conveniences, both instrumental and opportunistic. He was recalled in some interventions that preceded me a principle of responsibility (the principle of responsibility that was codified and defined in its characteristics by Hans Jonas), but let us not forget that that principle of responsibility, in the very etymology of the word, is called to take charge, precisely, of a taking charge of each and everyone, no one excluded. And yet, can a principle of responsibility be the only ethical principle that can standardize our legislation? It does not seem to me, because the principle of responsibility, in order to be such, must be united with the other, which is the principle of reasonableness. As it is legitimate to define forms of guarantee for persons living together of the same sex and of different sex, attributing legal consistency from the public point of view, it is equally legitimate and necessary to deepen the themes of parenthood, generation and adoption, as well as the proposed assimilation of civil unions to the institution of marriage. As is well known, and repeatedly referred to in this House, the constitutional foundation of the legitimate family is written in the first paragraph of Article 29. The family, the primary form of human coexistence, is a natural society that is formed as a spontaneous nucleus that arises from the bond of couples in order to achieve, in complementarity, the overcoming of their respective individual dimensions; it qualifies on natural principles even before legal: the definition of natural society does not indicate an indistinguishable reference to jusnaturalistic conceptions, but, as clearly emerges from the preparatory work of the constituent Assembly, it is directed to emphasize that the family institution is pre-juridical, i.e. it exists, before and independently of legislative interventions. The principle that the family is founded on marriage, which is constituted by the union between a man and a woman, is called into question for changes in customs and social relations, from which it would result in overcoming gender diversity as an essential element for the existence of the marriage bond. Given the full and logical regard for those who live in a condition of couple, often suffering and marginalized, of people with the same sexual orientation, it is up to the legislator the discretion to interpret the social transformations and introduce the system reforms that result from them, modulating the indispensable legislative disciplines of detail. It is clear that it is necessary to refer first of all to the Italian case law. The starting point is constitutional jurisprudence, in particular the two fundamental judgments on homosexual unions: No 138 of 2010 and No 170 of 2014. The judgment n. 138 of 2010 legitimises homosexual unions as such for the first time in social formations (Article 2 of the Constitution) and excludes their access to marriage (Article 29 of the Constitution). A judgment, this one, of which I quote from President Criscuolo who said that, considering that the entire discipline of the matrimonial institution postulates the diversity of sex of the spouses, for social formation, pursuant to Article 2 of the Constitution, is also to be counted the homosexual union, understood as a stable coexistence between two persons of the same sex. However, it ruled out that the aspiration to such recognition can only be achieved through equalization of homosexual unions to marriage. Criscuolo continues by saying that the concepts of family and marriage cannot be kept crystallized with reference to the time when the Constitution came into force, but must be interpreted taking into account not only the transformations of the order, but also the evolution of society and customs. This meaning of the constitutional precept cannot be exceeded by a hermeneutic way, because it would not be a mere re-reading of the system or abandoning a mere interpretive practice, but rather to proceed to a creative interpretation. The first civil section of the Court of Cassation, in its judgment No 2400 of 9 February 2015, recalls that the prohibition of marriage between persons of the same sex does not constitute discrimination. The same judgment also recalls the opportunity to create for homosexual couples, as for all de facto couples, a common core of rights and duties of assistance and solidarity proper to couple relations. A ruling by the European Court of Human Rights, in particular that of 24 June 2010, recalls that there is no right to marriage for same-sex couples. Moreover, the European Court of Human Rights itself, in a ruling of 7 November 2013, recalls that, in the event that States issue a law aimed at recognising civil unions for heterosexual couples, they cannot provide for exclusion for same-sex couples. Therefore, the legislator's discretion is repeatedly referred to as far as possible for the sharing and recognition of the social and patrimonial rights of cohabitations. The draft law in question aims to provide state legislation for both homosexual unions and de facto couples, seeking a balance between civil unions and equal marriage. However, different elements are placed on the same level: one thing is the stable unions between man and woman that, although not based on the bond of marriage, basically follow the model; another thing is the unions between people of the same sex. The discipline proposed in the draft law in Articles 2 and 3, while not referring in full to that on marriage, uses a legislative technique that, through partial ad hoc regulations, allows civil unions to reach the extent of the rights and duties that married couples acquire by law. In particular, Article 3 expressly recalls certain articles of the marriage discipline. In short, it is a general clause of equivalence between marriage and civil unions. This extension therefore also applies to Article 44 (b) Title IV of Law No 184 of 1983, anticipating what is expressly written in Article 5 below and thus introducing the adoption of the partner's son (so-called stepchild adoption). If so, would it not have been better to proceed with the technique of the so-called external referral to the existing legislation on marriage? It would have been avoided, by this way, to emphasize an alternative between civil unions and marriage which, in reality, in the intention of the legislator of the bill, is only apparent because, for rights and duties provided for in it, it is perfectly comparable. At this point, why not talk clearly about marriage, also resolving the problem of Article 29 of the Constitution? We come to Article 5, which, in amending Article 44 of Law No 184 of 1983, indirectly provides stepchild adoption, as well as non-legitifying one in some countries such as Germany, in order to guarantee the continuity of affection for minors who already live in homosexual couples. I ask myself one question: is there any other possibility of protecting minors? As a matter of fact, already in Title IV of Law No 184 of 1983 reference is made to forms of adoption in particular cases. This law could be amended to include these cases in certain contexts. It is easily intuitable how the forecast of the bill in question leads to resort, although already prohibited in Italy by law n. 40 of 2004, to surrogate motherhood, also defined, through the vocabulary of the anti-language, "management for others" or "management of support." With the right to parenthood on the part of same-sex couples, inevitably and logically it is necessary to resort to procedures that humiliate the dignity of the female body, with the so-called and commercialization of gestation, which instead, for intrinsic and natural qualities, is rooted in the human depth of the single, unique, unrepeatable mother-son relationship, which can never cancel, neither contractize, nor justify itself for a so-called altruistic or solidaristic purpose, wherever it happens, in any area of the world, whether it is the United States or Canada, Russia or Ukraine, India or other, even exploiting hardships and poverty. I hope that we do not want to aspire to it, nor do we want to achieve it, in establishing civil unions. Convincingly I support what, rightly, is mentioned a few days ago by some senator colleagues - and not only from them - that the uterus for rent is unacceptable practice, which certainly concerns heterosexual couples, but which has implications in the current version of stepchild adoption, contained in the bill under discussion. As my colleagues reminded us, we do not want any exploitation, nor any hypocrisy. The rights of same-sex couples should not conflict with those of women, nor with those of minors. For these reasons I have signed an amendment, which applies the same penalties as those already laid down in Italy to those who practise maternity surrogacy abroad, both for homosexual couples and heterosexual couples. In addition, the same amendment defines a procedure which seeks to discourage it. In part, Article 11 of the bill, which deserves further study, refers both to heterosexual couples and homosexual couples, rightly providing for the same rights as spouses in case of illness, imprisonment or death of one of the spouses, as well as the possibility of entering into a contract of cohabitation to regulate the patrimonial issues between them. Moreover, as early as February 2015, I had deposited as the first signatory a bill providing for the establishment of a register of stable cohabitations, which resulted from the widespread need to recognize the rights of those who find themselves in establishing a stable coexistence between persons of different sex or of the same sex, linked by bonds of affectivity, kinship or even simply by intent of mutual support for solidarity purposes. In conclusion, it is clear that a supplement of deepening and dialogue is required, in the necessary amending phase of the draft law which, on particular rights and duties to be regulated, ultimately meets the criteria of reasonableness. Therefore, improvements and adjustments are possible and necessary in this House. In order also to establish a clear regulation of civil unions between persons of the same sex and of the discipline of cohabitations, Parliament's competence, in exercising its full discretion, to identify forms of guarantee and recognition for persons of the same sexual orientation, I note that there is an opportunity to promote a law that allows relationships other than marriage to acquire legally protected rights, which is not detrimental to equal rights a different legal situation between couples with persons of the same sexual orientation and heterosexual couples, with no extension of the marriage model to homosexual couples and, finally (last, but not least in importance), that an account is the discipline of patrimonial and personal relationships, another is to surrogate the relationship of natural sonship. Briefly, in conclusion, I would like to call on my fellow senators to accept my speech as a contribution to overcoming two concepts, which have been in a certain way either explicit or indirectly referred to in the previous speeches. A sort of conflict, of diversity of position, what has been defined by some as strong thought and by others as weak thought. But when we give rise to this sort of differentiation between strong thought and weak thought, we do nothing but recall a third possibility that would be that of overcoming: a reasoning and rational thought, which recalling precisely that secularity and that argument according to truth, will give us the possibility to overcome both these positions that nullify, frustrate and cancel out the whole principle of reasonableness that, together with the principle of responsibility, gives us the possibility to motivate in a profound way what could be a definitely conflicting and dialectically strong law, but that could give us the possibility to recognize rights without going beyond and deleting others. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE ePD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u83	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u84	Madam President, the recent statement by the Commissioner for Human Rights in Strasbourg has, in my view, made a significant contribution to our debate, because he has brought us back to the precise aims of the Cirinna bill that we are currently examining. What are these purposes? Eliminate discrimination based on the sexual orientation of people and recognise the rights of homosexual couples, as well as heterosexual couples. I invite you to reflect on this passage, because in the debate that has developed these days, in this House but also outside, there has been a lot of confusion. Articulately, arguments have been put in the field which I consider instrumental or purely ethical-value. Instead, the purpose of our debate and the draft law is precisely to eliminate injustice and discrimination and to introduce equal rights. Now, in the area of civil rights, the necessary and indispensable point of reference for us is our Constitution, and it is precisely from the constitutional dictation that the need to recognise and ensure that new forms of union have equal rights and are not discriminated against strongly derives. And that is why while the legislator - let us remember, in fact, everything that has happened in recent years - has been fugitive, and all the attempts made to legislate have not been successful (I would like to remind the Dico, for example) there has been a strong evolution of the case law that originated precisely from the indications, clear in my opinion, of the Part before our Constitution and therefore firmly anchored to the Constitutional Charter. Many national and European courts have in fact given legal legitimacy to new family arrangements. Most of this evolution of the case law starts from Article 3 of our Constitution, which many have recalled but which I would like to recall because it is perhaps one of the most beautiful articles of our Constitution: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions and personal conditions" - I stress personal - "social." It is the task of the Republic - and it is here the other very strong key - to remove obstacles (...), which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, (...). It is from here that a serious reasoning of all of us should start to say strongly that the time has come for the legislator to finally take on this task. Let's not let the judges do that. Once again, in fact, we have made sure that there was an addition from the evolution of the case law, without assuming the responsibility, in the meantime, to implement the rules precisely from Article 3. It is therefore time for the legislator to give all the same rights and duties, regardless of their sexual orientation. It is no longer tolerable to persevere in discrimination by the State and to continue not to recognize the rights of same-sex couples, straight couples and cohabitants. This is also the premise behind the sentence that I have heard quoted from everyone (then, of course, everyone interprets it as they wish), No 138 of 2010 of the Constitutional Court. Many, even in this House, have intended to interpret it as a ban imposed by the constitutional judge on the introduction into our legal system of marriage between persons of the same sex. My modest opinion (but I am not alone in this and I would like to mention here my authoritative colleague Doris Lo Moro, who has made this argument even more so this morning) is that the judgment does not at all affirm the incompatibility of the egalitarian marriage with the Charter. In my opinion, it simply says that such an introduction cannot derive from a historical interpretation of the constitutional precept and that both the institution of unions and the institution of marriage require an intervention by the legislator, certainly indicating Article 2 as a prerequisite for homosexuals to live freely a condition of couple with the related rights and duties. It also says that the Court itself will ensure, through reasonable scrutiny, the need for a homogeneous treatment between homosexual and heterosexual couples. But the sentence, which was also cited in the last intervention by Senator Romano, perhaps with different purposes, also says that the definition of the marriage institution is not crystallized and that it can, in fact, change evidently over time. The same pronunciation of the 2012 Cassation always goes in this direction, clearly indicating the necessity of a timely legislative intervention in this matter. Always returning to that sentence, it is evident to all that in it there is no obstacle to the recognition of the egalitarian marriage. Article 29 confines itself to recognizing the rights of the family as a natural society based on marriage, without indicating what the gender of spouses should be for that purpose. Gender issues are rightly addressed in ordinary laws which, as such, are freely and expandable by ordinary legislators, without having to resort to a constitutional revision. I emphasized that we must assume our responsibility as legislators. How can we give rights to those who are discriminated against and who do not? But how, in giving these rights, can someone feel in danger? How can one think that, when discrimination is eliminated and rights are given, on the basis of the principle of equality before the law against discrimination, this can be experienced as an attack on the rights of others, as an attack on the traditional family? But then I'll come back to that. What is taken away from families? In what does this constitute a limitation for all others? Precisely because of the reasoning I have made, also on Article 29 and on the cited judgment n. 138, we have always thought - and not only us, because in addition to the many interventions of SEL senators, that of the rapporteur goes in this direction too - that, precisely by virtue of the principle of equality and equality, the main way would have been to recognize the rights and eliminate the inequalities of treatment, through the road followed by other 14 European countries, that is, through the so-called egalitarian marriage. We have tabled amendments to this effect, also to underline, to make clear and to dismantle some of the arguments I have heard in this House, according to which the text, particularly with regard to Article 3, is a disguised marriage. That is not the case, and we all know it perfectly well. If we are honest intellectually we know that this is not the case, so much so that there has been a discussion, animated by a very broad, clear and long debate on whether to choose the path of egalitarian marriage or that of the institution of civil unions. Now we have reached this point, a text that is the result of this debate and mediations that expresses a choice that is not that of the egalitarian marriage, but that of the institution of civil unions, which is legally other than marriage. This institution certainly recognises rights, but we also know that it retains some discrimination in access to the marriage institution. I still invite everyone, if we finally want to assume our responsibilities as legislators, to be honest intellectually: civil unions are not a disguised marriage. And I say clearly, precisely because it has been decided by means of a series of mediations, to go this way, that it is not possible to accept the introduction of further worsening changes in the text, that further weaken the part of the recognition of rights. We then come to the other point that has been the focus of our entire debate, namely Article 5. Again, let us try behind the thousand polemics and misrepresentations, to clarify the meaning of this norm. And here the aspect of overcoming and eliminating discrimination is even stronger, because it concerns children and girls. Out of all the hypocrisies of this we are talking about: the purpose of Article 5 is exactly to recognize rights and protection to children who often already exist, who live a situation within families in which there is affection, mutual collaboration and the hard work of those who are parents. And what exactly does this article 5 provide for? It provides for the possibility of extending to children of homosexual couples the rules which, since 1983, with the famous article 44, paragraph 1, title b), exist for heterosexual couples and which, moreover, many courts are already applying to same-sex couples. Again, the judges are replacing the inertia of the legislator and I am not quoting here the list of all the pronouncements to this effect. [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] This is because, when the aim of the protection and interest of the child is proposed, a principle which, as you know, fortunately, very often informs the decisions of the court of minors, one must look at the emotional situation and the possibility of continuing in their relations. This is therefore a rule that serves to protect children legally. They are biologically children of only one, but affectionately they are linked to both members of the couple. If something should happen to the father or the natural mother, they must have the right to continue living with the other; and so also in the event of separation. But that's what it's all about. And it is a limited adoption, a special adoption - we have said it 50,000 times - quite different from the legitimate adoption. You know perfectly well that the child acquires no kinship with the adopter's family members, including the issues of hereditary succession. On the other hand, the debate on the general subject of adoption has been created, which is a very serious issue. We should all commit ourselves to tackling immediately, immediately, the amendment of the law on adoption, because it is a Calvary for couples, it is a path of obstacles. But, again, I do not accept those who hypocritically say that they refer everything to the revision of the adoption law. I think it is right to intervene on it in order to allow the adoption of homosexual couples and singles, who can give affection, always in the interests of the child, of the child. I am not talking about orphanages here, but I am just saying that this should be the purpose with which we are dealing with the issue of adoption. So we are not talking, as far as Article 5 is concerned, about a device to give the green light to surrogacy, which is and remains prohibited. I see here some senators - I was there too - who participated in the very long discussion on Law 40; I remember that article and that passage very well. It is not a device to give the green light to surrogacy, which is and remains prohibited in our legislation. I would also add that we must not hide, because this is a very serious and delicate issue with implications, yes, very complex ethics, which calls for a debate and questions that are very dear to me, which relate to the relationship between freedom and the sense of the limit. It is a debate, which also concerns science, which we have held many times in this House and which we will have to face again, perhaps in the context of the necessary revision of Law No 40, since almost everything has been demolished, fortunately, by the Council. Article 5 is so clear precisely because it serves to eliminate discrimination and to ensure equal treatment, recognising by law what some courts are already doing. However, this discrimination is even more hateful, because children would want to pay for the way they were born - children of guilt. That is why it is intolerable for us to believe that this rule can be deleted or that changes can be made which would lead to further discrimination, such as some of which I have heard here. Among other things, the arguments put forward so far against the adoption of the son of his partner, for example that children are entitled to have a father and a mother, which have recently been subject to pseudo-scientific positions (without the support of real studies), are, in my opinion, the result of prejudices. We must speak out of all hypocrisy: I saw signs, even at the Family Day, that repeated these concepts and that they spoke of an attack put in place by the bill against the traditional family and its danger to children. Now, I frankly think that the first right of children and children is to be loved, cared for, respected, protected, sustained on the path of life. We must take care of this and worry, as legislators and institutions, in a world where childhood is all too often the object of violence, abuse, both physical and psychological abuse. I was talking about the prejudices underlying this statement. These are certainly prejudices towards homosexuality, but there is another even deeper one, which tends to reduce motherhood and paternity to biology and blood, as if the genetic link automatically translates into the ability to be parents. It is not enough to bring a child into the world to become automatically good parents, and it is the same social prejudice that caused the path of adoption to be so impervious. That is why, I repeat, action must be taken. Among other things, the amendment of the Act on Adoption would be the real instrument, in fact, not in words and chatter, to discourage the use of surrogacy or therapeutic fertilization, which is sometimes assisted fertilization. We have to tell each other how they are. So this is the reasoning that I would like to make to those who continue to brandish this idea of the traditional family endangered by the recognition of feelings, of the affections of civil unions, sacralized with ideological fury, in a world in which we witness an evolution of the family, in which so many solitudes often need mutual assistance. And this traditional family was brandished in the days when news of the events of Pozzuoli, of the man who set fire to his pregnant wife, and of Catania (also there a massacre). How can one fail to understand that the only real discrimination today is between families in which there is love, respect, mutual assistance, and those in which violence and oppression are exercised instead? We should take care of this and worry about it, not giving reports and building artificial models. That is why today we finally have the opportunity, after so many years, to heal an injustice, to recognize a minimum of rights, to eliminate discrimination, to increase the level of protection. These are standards of civilisation that a democratic state can no longer fail to recognise without any discrimination, especially against children. No one can doubt - I am talking about myself - that we are proud opponents of the Renzi Government: we have demonstrated this all these years. But we have not made any political calculations or tactics on this issue, because, as far as we are concerned, we cannot make calculations or political games on the issue of rights. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senator Castaldi]] And I call on everyone to be consistent because we are finally talking about giving rights to those who do not have rights. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups and the Senators Castaldi and Mussini]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Sacconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, several times, particularly during these days, the President-in-Office of the Council has appeared to invoke a law, any law, a law, as long as it is, in relation to the regulation of the rights of homosexual cohabitations. Yet in front of us two diametrically opposed choices are possible. On the one hand, the path that should take place through the search for a common denominator, for which the return to the Commission appears to be the most appropriate way, with the result of a further contribution to national cohesion and, with it, to a climate of absorption of residual homophobic behaviors that unfortunately still exist in our society. Therefore patient research of the common denominator, mutual listening, possibility to identify it, because it is enough to consider the drafts of law presented by the different Groups and, among them, the two presented by the Group of the New Right Center, today Popular Area. On the other hand, on the other hand, there is the other way, the other possible way, that of the nation's greatest tearing. In a time unfortunately already marked by many disrupting factors a deep laceration - I will come back to you in conclusion - would affect the same material Constitution on the basis of which the formal Constitution was then drawn up. I am referring to the maximum tearing of a nation that has expressed itself through extraordinary mobilizations, unprecedented above all because of their characteristics of events at zero cost, with multitudes of participants at their own expense, unlike usual demonstrations organized by political forces or trade unions for which (understandably) aid has been put in place so that the most could flow into the place indicated. Laceration of a nation which is expressed through the unique opinion of the polls, which, whatever the source, speak to us of a society open to the rights of homosexual cohabitations, but also in a very large majority closed to approve the institution of marriage and to recognize adoption, parentality, homosexual. There is, therefore, national cohesion on the one hand and laceration on the other, so I believe that the President-in-Office of the Council cannot be indifferent to either outcome and, while we are talking about it, both of these outcomes are possible. The choice therefore sees, on the one hand, a body of rules that give certainty to the rights of the living stables, as defined by the judgment of the Council of 2010 and of course among these rights we have never understood that to parenthood. Whoever speaks (but I believe each of us) can humanly understand the desire for parenthood of a homosexual couple and I first - I repeat - understand it, but not all desires are made rights: desires are infinite, rights are ended, especially when, compared to a desire such as that of a homosexual couple to exercise the function of parenthood, the right of a minor to be able to grow in that parental complementarity which is considered necessary for a balanced development of the person by the vast majority of pedagogy prevails inexorably. The choice, therefore, is between this possible codification of rights of stable living together and legislation that fits into that anthropological revolution that has manifested itself in the western dimension (not global, in the western dimension only) and that reproposes that search of the new man that we have already known with the great and sad political phenomena of the twentieth century. The new man is born, or rather is produced, separately, independently, from love, from a natural affective relationship between a man and a woman; the new man may not be born in a banal way on the basis of a pill taken by a minor in the bathroom of the house; the new man should be educated from the earliest age to gender indifference; the new man may grow up in a homogenital family not benefiting from the two different parental models, as it has happened so far; the new man establishes emotional relationships, which define themselves and dissolve easily; the new man should ask to be assisted when he declares to aspire to suicide. This new man, in all his expressions, is the evident birth of an elitist movement, not supported, like the great movements of the twentieth century, by wide popular consensus, at least in the first part of their history. We live a time in which the elitist networks, thanks also to the technological revolution that is underway, have the claim to impose themselves on the peoples and, in some circumstances, succeed also in their intent. These concerns - said Mr D'Ascola this morning - expressed to her what in my time would be called an organic intellectual of the Italian left, like the philosopher Giuseppe Vacca, who, moreover, together with his colleague Tronti and Pietro Barcelona, had to sign a manifesto in defence of natural anthropology. As non-believers, they signed a manifesto dedicated to the defense of natural anthropology and he, even in recent days, has been concerned to emphasize the boundary between natural and artificial and the dangers arising from the contamination between the natural and artificial dimensions. So, how can we not consider these concerns? How can we fail to consider the consequence that the anthropological revolution would have on our national cohesion? The choices between the two paths will be realized in the parliamentary examination in the first three articles: Article 1, Article 2 and Article 3; honestly what will come after will have little importance, especially if the choices made in the first three articles were to be in the sign of confirmation of the bill that is placed on the basis of our parliamentary examination. We, for our part, will propose a regulation of the rights of all cohabitants - homosexual and heterosexual - opposed to the voluntary promotion by persons of the same sex of a publicly relevant institute and, already for this reason, close to the marriage institution. (at 19.47) (Sacconi followed). This concern has been expressed in recent days by Catholics engaged in the Democratic Party (definition, that of a Catholic engaged in politics, which does not belong to me because, beyond my personal relationship with the faith, I have a secular approach to the public service). The concern these Members have expressed about Chapter II of this bill honestly convinces me relatively; but I was struck by the argument used. Colleagues who are concerned that the regulation of heterosexual cohabitations, in Chapter II, is so close to the marriage institution have asked that, where there is talk of cohabitation, we speak of cohabitation, of the rights of the people and not of the rights of the couple. It seems strange to me that they do not care about Chapter I, where the relationship between people of the same sex is regulated, and they accept, instead, an educationally relevant institution. Therefore, the choice that is made in Article 1 is between the rights of the cohabitants or, instead, the establishment of a publicly relevant union, which is determined by the will of two actors, with a rite that recalls that of marriage, starting from the presence of witnesses, with the assumption of a common surname, with an obligation of fidelity (which is indeed no longer considered in the natural family), with a common family address, with a quota of legitimate (i.e. proper, legitimate heirs) and, even if not enough, with a general clause of equivalence between spouses and parts of the union in every source of law, with the sole exclusion of Title II of Law No 184 of 1983, i.e. with the sole exclusion of national adoptions, not of international ones, and the special cases of adoption provided for by the aforementioned law of 1983. Well, in these first three articles, therefore, the bill that is the basis of our work draws of the same-marriage, with the inexorable consequence, in every national or European Court, of a reasonably probable extension of all that is attributed to marriage, starting from adoptions in general, therefore not only the adoption of the biological son of the cohabitant, but all adoptions. Article 3 in a particular way, as we have mentioned before, already resolves the adoption of the so-called stepson, the biological son of the cohabitant (stepchild adoption, as it has been meant to say) because the failure to refer to the III and the IV title of Law No 184 would implicitly lead to the application to this case also of that clause of equivalence of which I said before. So, everything is played in the first three articles. There is no point in discussing Article 5; it is useless to focus attention on Article 5, as has been wrongly done. We shall have to consider how this House will decide on Articles 1, 2 and 3 because the red thread - which Mr D'Ascola spoke of very appropriately this morning - which leads to the adoptions and the uterus for rent will be removed from the choices made here. Speaking of the rental uterus, I see we went to school. In the first few days we were very few to talk about it. For the long time of gestation of this measure we have been few to talk about it. Today, the President-in-Office of the Council is also concerned about the practice of the uterus for rent, and strongly stigmatizes it: welcome to the many who today recognize the perverse practice of the uterus for rent for homosexual or heterosexual couples - without distinction, of course - but the choice of universal crime is possible, dear colleagues and dear colleagues. Therefore, all those who at this moment legitimately care about this practice and want to create cleanliness that further spread, at least in our country, by people who easily practice it elsewhere today and then easily find the possibility to give a formal regulation to this relationship, may converge on the amendment at first signature of my colleague D'Ascola, in which is contained the indication of a universal crime. It is the case, for example, of sexual tourism, that is, of a crime that our legal system should pursue wherever it has been carried out, even if in countries that consider it lawful. This choice is at your fingertips. It is the only one that would still remain there after Article 3, where the first articles, as I said, were approved in the well-known terms. I conclude with a comment on the subject that I have put from the beginning: that of the laceration of the Nation. This measure is not part of the government program and this government was born from the abnormal meeting between very different political forces. We can say that it was born from the encounter between Guelphs and Ghibellines, given a prevailing Ghibelline figure in the Democratic Party and a prevalent Guelph figure in the political area to which I belong and, fortunately, more generally in the center-right, as I see now in the light of the positions that he most recently considered to take on this matter. Therefore, it was clear that there was no common commitment in this regard, even if an abnormal coalition would involve the search for that common denominator that I have repeatedly invoked. Will the effects be on government cohesion? I don't know if, but mostly I don't know when or how. I believe there will be inexorably a laceration of the nation. I prefer to call Italian society this because the nation was formed before the unitary state. The nation has forged itself on principles long shared. It is clear that such a tearing could only reverberate in the institutional dimension. I don't know when; I don't know how, but it is inexorable to affect the Palace. It is inevitable that, at some point, such disintegration in society will reverberate in the political and institutional dimension. I also wonder what will be the reverb on the same referendum dedicated to constitutional reform. At a time when we will be called to appreciate or not to appreciate a reform of the formal Constitution, without prejudice to the first part devoted to the general principles, we will see a laceration of the material Constitution and an act manifestly contrary to the formal Constitution that we have, that is to say an unconstitutional act for the obvious violation, if nothing else, of Article 29, but also of those subsequent to this related one. What will happen to that referendum? In the demonstration in the square of recent days, attended by a great people - which I believe to be not contained voted for the first Italian party, the PD - there was a manifesto that said to the President of the Council: if you do not listen to us, we will remember it. [[Comments of Senator Cardinals]] You can laugh at that multitude of people. It is not my threat, because I have certainly never voted for the Democratic Party or for the Communist Party before, but it is the threat of voters of the Democratic Party itself who read in the possible approval of the text based on our work that tearing of our society on which I have so wished to insist with sincere concern. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC and Senator Caliendo)]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to fight a battle of civilisation that has been going on for too long and has a far greater scope than you can imagine. The fact that we are still talking about themes that can be solved twenty years ago is not accidental. It is not by chance that there has been no proper debate; it is not by chance that governments have fallen on these rights. The most shameful fact is that there has not been a civil confrontation in a neutral secular space such as a modern democratic country should have guaranteed both in the institutions but also in TV. For the umpteenth time they have been told of the very serious lies to the Italians. Let us start with the fact that the rights we are talking about - and you know that, ladies and gentlemen - are those enshrined in Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution: that is, we are equal before the law and with equal social dignity, without distinctions between sex, race, religion, language, political opinion and personal and social conditions. Sex comes first and there's a very specific reason. Everything that had to be said in this House had to start from the very principles of equality and equal social dignity, but no: we went exactly the opposite way, building a B-series citizenship, because homosexuals cannot get married, they cannot be too close together, but they cannot be too disjoined. One can exist, but only in a reduced and hypocritical legislative space, a space in which one is forced to recognize the same rights, but to call them with a different name. It's okay, though, if you can't do anything else now to recognize the existence of homosexuals and transsexuals, in a country like Italy, our country, whose laws do not even include the definitions of sexual orientation and gender identity - think a bit - a country that is last among the last, without legislation on this matter and sanctioned by the European Court of Human Rights, as we have already said. If it is to achieve at least this, it is fine: we can also accept the humiliation of defining it as a specific social training, to call in a different way the same things that face two people who live a daily life identical to that of all other families, including mortgage, work, children, school and spending. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Cirinna and Simeoni]] An identical life and identical problems, for citizens equal before the law, but without the same rights. Maybe you can write a Constitution apart for them, with more content, shriveled rights, dropped from above. This too, however, is not enough: those who oppose it are never happy and, indeed, come to say that they reject this measure in full. In short, this is how we have sunk into this night of reason, without the possibility of debate and debate, and we have heard all sorts of beastly. You of the NCD and of Forza Italia, you detractors of rights - I am also talking about the cattodems - it is not true that you have not had the opportunity to speak: you have been in the Commission for seventy-three sessions to argue [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Cirinna, Mussini and Simeoni]] , delirious, that those who join must have their parents, or that they must present themselves with a driving licence, or that the union is precluded in the presence of children. You're the ones who made fun of everyone and blew up the debate. You have deployed an armamentary of fartish arguments, of painful conceptual packages, up to the iniuria, from the quotations on dog regulations, to the obligation to check that the union between gays was consumed - Giovanardi went there, in person - to claim that transsexuals would change sex every weekend. No, they don't change it the way you change your armchairs. It's serious stuff. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] The mystified stepchild adoption, a technical standard, which among other things asks us 600 judges, lawyers and lawyers, to protect minors already present in the couple, is transformed into an Armageddon of the human species. Instead of hearing the opinion of experts, such as Judge Melita Cavallo, now retired, who first took care of it, and defended the child violated and abused in the courts of Milan, Naples and Rome or other accredited experts, we took up hours of televised chicken coop, entrusted to charlatans of all sorts. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Simeoni and De Petris]] It is the judges who decide in the interests of the child, who comes before anyone else. You must tell the citizens clearly: it is the judges and courts that decide, in the supreme and unique interests of the child and no one else. Do you suffer both words: "Judges" and "homosexuals"? [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] We know! Or do you prefer not to protect a child, take it by the hand, tell him "Look, those are not really your dad and your mom" and take it to an institution or a family home and, if it really hurts, end up at the Forteto. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] How can you do this to children who already exist, who have the right to be protected today, now, and to whom we cannot turn our back? On the contrary, citizens have suffered massive disinformation. Who do you have to believe, Italian citizens? I address you directly. To whom did the Fornero law or the jobs act vote? Try to apply for a bank loan with jobs act. Who freezes and cuts pensions? To whom does it privatise health care and schools? Or to which of the families is it competent, to the appeal of lawyers of the calibre of Zagrebelsky or Livio Pepino? Will Senator Sacconi, who holds the law of citizenship income in the presiding commission, the champion of the family, really care about the family? Do you know that 9 million citizens would benefit from this? How would 3 million families in serious income difficulties be resurrected? Did you know that? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris]] Who in here has been part of governments that have cut 60% of the social resources from 2008 to today will have the family at heart? Do we have to believe who defends the family but gave us a country with 20 million people at risk of poverty, youth unemployment of over 40% and a South Italy where one in five women works? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do we have to believe in parties investigated for the exploitation of migrants, the last, the poorest? Making money with human beings, enriching the Coops of Catholics of CL or Legacoop and exploiting workers at 2.50 euros per hour? Nice respect for the family! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have to believe who, in NCD, wrote rules to spread gambling machines, and you did so undersecretary? Diabolic family destroyers. We have in this Chamber senators with three "natural" families - think: three - who legislate to prohibit someone from having one. Let me speak for millions of Italians who now look at us: all this is disgusting. But the worst still has to come. I said that this matter had a wider scope, and that is the case. I wondered why such stubborn stubbornness to deny these rights to citizens like others? Why so inhumane wickedness? Didn't you ask yourself that question? The question remains for me! The answer has already been given in many: sociologists, scholars, philosophers, historians, lawyers, all people we have not seen in national debates and on TV, occupied twenty-four hours a day by Gasparri - excuse me, President - and by the Adolfi on duty. The answer - I said - is fiercely banal: to accept a transformation of models of gender and family or rather to recognize the changes already taking place in the country affects the relations of power between men and women. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni]] And that's the central point. To put it more simply: recognizing homosexuals and transsexuals means putting into crisis the model not of family, but of man's superiority over woman; putting into crisis the prevailing masculinism that still deeply plagues our society, where a man can be all he wants and a woman only what men have decided for her. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Cirinna, Mussini and Simeoni]] The Ministry of Equal Opportunities is missing, will it be a case? I don't know. You tell me. The UNAR no longer exists. There is no national anti-discrimination policy. The few initiatives that have been implemented have been abandoned, covered up. Many of those who do moralists here have voted that a minor was Mubarak's granddaughter - let us remember - to exonerate their President [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] , involved in dinners and parties with lots of saffici kisses, which did not disturb, and this is good for you because perhaps, speaking of "naturality," respects the natural model of the pack: the alpha male mates and the others are watching. How can morale make us a "pious" Lorenzo Cesa of the UDC, who threatens to leave the government if they pass the unions, in strenuous defense of the family when, in order to defend the party colleague and deputy Cosimo Mele, caught with cocaine and two prostitutes (one of whom left in overdose), justified him stuttering that the life of the parliamentarians is hard if done seriously, rich in commitments outside the home, with so many days alone in Rome (two or three), and so what is wrong with it? A few vices, but only for the caste. For citizens, on the other hand, Gandolfini's gloomy admonition "Sex is not a pleasure." [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators De Petris, Mussini and Simeoni]] The rulers already enjoy rights extended even to the living more uxorio - we already enjoy this right - the same rights that they intend to deny to the rulers, to our citizens. We already have them here! And even for homosexual partners, caste power! But what do you do now, ladies and gentlemen, come here and tell us what is right and what is not? And why would what is right for Members of Parliament not be right for citizens? That's a basic question, which I don't know if you'll answer. We are 69th in 142 countries investigated for gender equality. Are we a country that still discriminates very much against women, in the family, at work, in everyday life and what does Adinolfi do, that you elected your spokesperson? He goes around on TV saying his wife must be submissive to her husband. But, I mean, can such a statement be accepted today? How can these same politicians, after these statements, seem credible when they come to talk about "invasions of uterines for rent"? You have never protested for 90% of heterosexual couples going to buy them in Russia. No one has ever said a word in this House. You've never been indignant. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni]] You are outraged, not because slaves exist, but because slaves sell their children. That's the problem. And if a "natural" family buys them, that's fine. Homosexual relations have existed since the world existed, but not so the ideas of equal rights, duties, opportunities, citizenship and social and legal regulation. And where are we? The question of equality shakes the foundations of a secular, democratic and free society. To lead a worthy existence, the minimum condition is to have freedom of choice. With this law we are deciding which country we are helping to build, what democracy and what freedom we want. Should the law reflect the values of some, or should it guarantee, in mutual respect, the plurality of the values of all? I have fought with all of myself, strong in the rights of our Constitutional Charter, strong in the support of the citizens and activists that I thank. And I have fought both for those who are discriminated against and for those who are not. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni]] , because I still believe that Italy before this test can prove that it is a democratic country, perhaps or all Italians will be equal and free or no one will be, neither today nor ever. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators De Petris, Lo Giudice, Mussini and Simeoni. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u87	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u88	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, although I have heard a number of statements in this debate which do not correspond to the principles of our democratic state, I will make an effort to try to bring the debate to a rational conclusion, with the incurable optimism that distinguishes me, and in the hope of creating equal treatment in our country, in order to achieve civil unions that guarantee equal rights. But I do not mean the civil unions of the Cirinna text, which creates discrimination and leads to a non-protection of homosexuals themselves, because it ghettoizes them and makes them a kind of closed circle, while the same rights are not recognized by heterosexual couples. I would like to remind you, Mr Undersecretary, that I have fought alongside some of the leftists the battle for divorce and I have worked in recent years for the affirmation of the principles of effectiveness of the law, removing those conditions of fact which, at times, do not guarantee the right. However, we must start with facts. I think very much of Senator De Petris, who has made a statement that is contradicted not by me, but by the Constitutional Court. The Senate of the Republic, when it makes a law, is not a judge, Senator De Petris. The judge can only make a different interpretation, because he is the judge of the laws. I address Minister Orlando, whom I greet, to reiterate that any judge can make a different interpretation and address the Constitutional Court for a correct interpretation, while Parliament is bound by the Constitution and the interpretation given by the Constitutional Court. He can only amend the Constitution, but, in making laws, he is obliged to observe the Constitution. Therefore, amendments such as those referred to by Senator De Petris, former Article 3, on egalitarian marriage are inadmissible. What Senator De Petris says is true, and the Constitutional Court has made this clear: the concepts of marriage and family are changing and they also need to take account of the changes in society. But, after reconstructing the picture, the Constitutional Court says that in it, precisely with reference to Article 3, the censored norm of the civil code, which exclusively contemplates marriage between man and woman, cannot be considered constitutionally illegitimate, either because it finds its foundation in Article 29 of the Constitution, or because the legislation itself does not give rise to unreasonable discrimination, as homosexual unions cannot be considered homogeneous to marriage. The Court, however, did not say so in 2010 obiter dictum, but repeated it in 2014 and more forcefully, when it was found to assess the position of a spouse who had changed sex and both spouses did not want the so-called divorce imposed or required. The Court then said that it was not possible to follow the argument of the two spouses, because they came to propose a divorce not automatic but on application, and that would be to make possible the continuation of the matrimonial bond between subjects of the same sex, in contrast to Article 29 of the Constitution. In the face of this situation, Minister, precisely because of the optimism I referred to, I still have confidence that you will make it clear to the President-in-Office of the Council that it is necessary to deepen the matter. We in the Forza Italia Group are not against civil unions, we are very much in favour. But we believe that we must build a law as the Constitutional Court has said: different rights, in some cases the same as the spouse, but different rights and duties, which, however, cannot apply only to homosexuals, because here there is discrimination. They have to be straight and homosexual. You who have always been linked to the principles of freedom of our Constitution cannot ignore a fundamental principle that is characteristic of the Constitution: the freedom not to marry. And if there is the freedom not to marry - I am sorry for all of you on the left, starting with Ersilia Salvato who, being together on a train trip, in 1986 illustrated me the first document he proposed in Parliament for couples in fact - normalizing couples in fact means guaranteeing heterosexuals and homosexuals the same rights, because one thing is marriage and another thing is the rights of those who live a couple's condition. And what happened on this point? In the Commission we discussed a rubber wall. Several texts have been drafted to the very last, which we have not discussed. But we spoke only of the opposition, who wanted to assert the same rights, under certain conditions, for heterosexuals and homosexuals. Go and read them, Minister, and you will see that they are correct, from a constitutional point of view, and they guarantee effectiveness. We wanted to choose a position that privileges, yes and no, 35,000 people (to want to exaggerate, I multiplied by five) compared to 2,442,000 Italian citizens who live in de facto couples and, of these, 1,142,000 are citizens who have never contracted, in their lives, a marriage, and therefore, do not come from a divorce. Well, with regard to this situation, do you want to tell me why - when you introduce the possibility of access to the survivor's pension - after thirty years of common life a family of unmarried heterosexuals, with children, will have to be treated differently from homosexuals? Do we want to assert rights or do we want to create discrimination? You see, Minister, my hope is that the logic of seeing what the rules are may still be. I do not think either as a Catholic or as a layman; I have heard people say that they are Catholic or that they are secular. I've been a magistrate for 40 years, and I don't think I understand the rules according to my beliefs, otherwise I would have lost the light of reason. I don't have to discriminate against sex. You are faced with citizens who, by law and by the Constitution, cannot marry and other citizens who, by the principle of freedom, decide not to marry. Any text or text of constitutional law would tell you that both positions, that of the people who cannot and that of those who do not want to get married, become part of the social formations. They will all remember that in the Commission I proposed the specific reference to social formations. Even Moro, in the constituent assembly, said that the family is not only the one that derives from marriage, because there are also formations based on common affection. And you want me to make distinctions between heterosexual love and homosexual love? I do not make these distinctions, because for me love is unique and distinguishes, depending on its forms, in filial love, fatherly love, love of lover, love of wife. It cannot be said, however, that these are different loves that need a different discipline. I might not even talk about adoptions. Perhaps the sensitivity that we have always had, in these forty years, President Finocchiaro and I towards minors would lead me to repeat what she said earlier about the possibility of recognizing the adoption of a child born thanks to the uterus for rent. We go to promote the exploitation of the body of the woman for compensation and, for compensation, we will allow the fruit to be taken, the product of that exploitation and removed from the mother or father. It is, as the Undersecretary Best knows better than I, what happened in the South, namely the purchase of the child in the mother's body. And when the judges arrived, late, to find out what had been the origin of that child, they had the alteration of state, the trial and only after the declaration of state of adoption. And this, as you know better than I do, Minister, is happening in the last few days with the issue of surrogates in Ukraine or in the countries of the East, where little is spent. Now with 5,000 euros you get the trip and all the package to get kids. This is not the Italy we want. It's values. Senator Finocchiaro invited the leftists to reflect, because such a fact cannot be accepted. And so I say to Senator Finocchiaro that, if you really want to insert this (even if it is not necessary), then we introduce the crime, but not the one provided for by Law No 40, but a stronger crime, which also applies abroad, if we want to bring into the world those values of law and dignity that we have as a country. The bill Cirinna makes an operation that, at the last period of Article 3, assigns homosexual couples all cases of adoption in particular cases. He then treats the children of unmarried heterosexuals as equals at that time, as well as the children of homosexual couples in civil unions. Then suddenly transforms and modifies Article 5. I don't have to remind her that letter b doesn't apply to heterosexuals, as Senator De Petris thinks. There have been nine cases of adoptions throughout Italy, with the application of letter d) or letter a), which also concern heterosexuals, and not only homosexuals. The provisions of point (b) have never been applied to heterosexuals either. The Court of Cassation in 2013, on the occasion of the death of a woman who had a child before marriage, rejected the application for adoption submitted by the widower. He said that the provisions of points (a) and (c) and (d) could be applied, which also provide for adoption by individuals, not necessarily by married persons. And as for point (b), he replied negatively, because he was a widower and not a spouse; the widower could not avail himself of that article. And you want to extend the hypothesis to civil unions? Why? You say that this is a protection of the child's interest. President Zanda knows better than I that it is not a protection of the interests of the child. If you were concerned about the child's interest, you would know that there are five hundred children of homosexual couples who want to exaggerate, while tens of thousands of children are children of heterosexuals. And why don't you worry about these? On this, if we guarantee equality, we could also review our position. But if we don't guarantee equality, we can't see her again. As far as the uterus for rent is concerned, I must recall what the European Parliament's Plenary Assembly said on 17 December 2015 in the annual report on human rights. The European Parliament condemns the practice of surrogate motherhood, which undermines the human dignity of women, since its body and reproductive functions are used as a luxury commodity; - and this is what the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, whom I was referring to, has also said - and believes that the practice of surrogate motherhood, which involves the exploitation of reproduction and the use of the human body for financial or other gain, particularly in the case of vulnerable women in developing countries, should be prohibited and considered as an urgent issue among human rights instruments. Mr Minister, let us look at the amendments these days. And to President Zanda, as the Parent Company of the Related Majority Group, I say we find a solution that guarantees equal rights. Find the solution that ensures that all minors are guaranteed and the interest of the homosexual's son and the heterosexual's son is protected. And I think we can review our position as well. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u89	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is right to approve the law on civil unions because it outlines the prospect of a general modernisation of the country, its culture and its legislation. This signal of ageing, of de-synchronization of old prejudices, of opening up new areas of debate and action is for me to say. I do not dream of dividing the supporters and detractors of the bill into modern and conservative. I respect the criticism that the opposites and the perplexed make to a certain vision of modernity, perhaps considered too risky or technological. Cardinal Ruini also said that there are more ways of being modern. It would be nice to move the confrontation on the cultural and anthropological change in progress, accepting the leap towards modernity and focusing on how it expresses itself best. However, the fact remains that the culture that permeates the bill and the commitment of those who support it are a manifesto and an indication of the path for the modernization of the country, which is not only to finally adapt the norms to a society that is later. True modernisation is in encouraging society to fully express its wealth, vitality and dynamism. This is how Italy will be more active and talented. Modernity is not imposing theses, conceptions, words and new gestures, but freeing the field for all expressions, promoting self-realization, growing all together. Here lies the heart of the law, the positive message that is also of calming, because, freed from the tension so far created by the culture of discrimination and exclusion, we could dedicate ourselves more quietly to the construction of positive things. The modernisation of the legislation on civil unions is part of the ongoing effort to grow old and dynamic Italy and expresses the idea of a country more free and equal, where the satisfaction of each and the recognition of the autonomy of his life project produce more participation, more adherence to the choral objectives, more willingness to social and national obligations. It is strange that some theorists of liberal political culture are fighting today, because there is a clear link between economic and social reforms and the cultural and moral modernization of the country. A great work of reform, covering school, university, work, tax and justice, is not achieved without a broad participation, without a conscious mobilization of all energies, without an innovation that also covers culture, customs, human and social relations. I would not understand a government program that wants to change the country deeply and do not call for an effective contribution all citizens, free and equal, active and involved, strong of their dignity and their recognition. This is also the safest antidote against populism. In recent months, many in this House have also taken the signal of ageing, liberation, content - for example - in jobs act or school reform. I wonder why now they do not see the same and deeper signal of openness, of overcoming so many sclerosis that comes on this issue or the innovative drive that lies in accepting all forms of contribution of society and contemporary culture. We must approve the draft law in question because in this way we help all the reforms (constitutional, economic and social) that need a cultural, ethical and moral engine: in this law there is, as there will be on the ius soli, when we face it. Ethical and cultural modernisation is to bring together innovative, social and institutional demands, to help each other, because no one can do it alone, neither politics nor the country. Politics therefore plays its role, it does not leave the judges the task of handling the problem, but it does not think that it can solve everything on its own. Today, politics says that, in order to reform Italy, it needs all its citizens equally recognized, valued, motivated and called to give the best of themselves. This is a new point. In the last two years I have not hidden any questions and reservations about the new course of the PD and the Government, about the quality of the proposed and realized renewal. Today I stress that, by this way, a less top-down view of the reform process can be affirmed, less low from above and that the exaltation of politics may not end in its intrinsic limit, that politicism which has caused so much damage to the institutions and to politics itself. The measure under consideration can shed new light on the whole phase of renewal. It can give more quality, more depth and more prestige in Europe. In this respect, I do not share the tone of several colleagues (of the League and of Forza Italia in particular) who are shouting at the intrusion of a stepmother Europe. I see, instead, the space for an autonomous contribution from Italy, which is not pure appendage or bureaucratic transposition of sanctions, however motivated. So let us bring to Europe our originality, our particular sensitivity. There's a story of ours, let's take it all, without complexes or reluctances. But our originality is proactive, dynamic, not based on immobilism or minimal movement. You can understand prudence, graduality, attention to the highest quality, to what I call the subtle links. On the other hand, one cannot understand the logic of continuous postponement, of eternal shyness, or the repositioning of apocalyptic fears. I sometimes hear, almost with the same arguments, the same evictions and disasters of 1974 and 1981. Even then he shouted: the country will break apart, the family will escape, we will have abandoned children and humiliated women. None of what I have suggested has happened. The country did not abyss, the family did not die, indeed. And the attacks did not come from the assault of modernising culture or from the recognition of diversity, but from civic and moral degradation, from the corruption of ethics produced by commodification and individualism, from the weariness of the idea of social state, universal and solidarity. These are issues that should be fully taken up, because they will be the useful ground for the post-draft law, because there will be a later one, and new areas of shared cultural and political work will have to be found. I don't live this as a divisive passage. It is not what highlights different opinions and proposals. This is simply democratic. It is divisive what deliberately digs grooves and creates conflicts where there can be a positive, dynamic solution. It is more divisive the status quo, maintaining discrimination, anachronism and legislation that is no longer up-to-date. It is not divisive to pass a law that will offer us a more advanced ground to compare the different and legitimate visions of the world. So let us face this passage without fear and with an open mind. There can be no harm to the country and politics. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal has been made by Senator Calderoli and other senators not to proceed to the examination of the articles, which is intended to be presented. The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u94	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today is the World Day of Network Security, an event promoted by the European Commission at its thirteenth edition, so much so that it now involves over a hundred countries around the world. The Safer Internet Centre, in Italy, is coordinated by the MIUR under the name of connected Generations. It is still fresh - it was January 18 - the memory of the tragedy, fortunately touched, in Pordenone, with a 12-year-old so discouraged that she prefers to throw herself into the void rather than go back to school. The memory of Carolina is still alive, the first victim of cyberbullying in January 2013. I dedicate this day to you and to all the kids involved in the events organized today between Rome and Milan, to those of Generation Z, born between 1996 and 2010, who communicate 90 percent via chat, so much to turn WhatsApp into a social network. 13 percent of them confess that they have posted their own private and intimate images, photos and videos that then go around the net and open the way to cyberbulls. They are increasingly connected: almost 50 percent are active over six hours a day on the Internet. For this reason they are increasingly aware, fortunately, of the risks associated with the misuse of the network. I've met them in these years of meetings throughout the territory; I met them on the multimedia truck of the postal police for "A life as a social ", the itinerant educational campaign that in these days makes a stop in Sanremo. I also found them this morning at the Palladium theater in Rome, to participate, with Minister Stefania Giannini, in the interactive theater show realized for the occasion and in the conference organized by Telephone Azzurro on the safety on the net. We have been confronted with the results of the latest investigations that, fortunately, photograph girls and boys always a little'more attentive to privacy and their digital identity, probably also as a result of the social alarm, training activities and a greater perception of the phenomenon in the family. They are crucial concepts to understand how much the web, which today we have at our disposal, conditions for good and evil the daily life of us adults, but above all of the youngest - sometimes very young - certainly not supported by the critical approach necessary, namely the ability to discern the consequences of their actions, especially in a virtual square. The future of our society also depends on how a new principle of digital citizenship can be built alongside Generation Z. Freedom does not exist without rights and without respect for the rules, so also democracy, and certainly this also happens on the web. Teenagers, today increasingly early, deserve to have more tools to make a conscious and expressive use, but also to defend themselves, prevent, remedy the effects, sometimes devastating, that can cause cyberbullying in all its meanings. And at the root of this phenomenon, of course, we find the need to build an identity, which needs to get out of stereotypes, which are the prejudices and discrimination that we are talking about here in the debate on civil unions and stepchild adoption. I think it is important that the bill passed unanimously here in the Senate, today incardinated in the House, is brought to the Chamber as soon as possible and, therefore, discussed in order to arrive here, not distorted, but built according to what were our guidelines that led, precisely, unanimously. I believe that in this way, as I have heard today from many experts and the institutions that form the network built in recent years, this wish, on the occasion of Safer Internet Day, can really be heard by everyone to get as soon as possible to give a law to our young people. [[Applause from Senator Santini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u95	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-574.ana.u96	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Wednesday 10 February, at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.43 p.m.
