ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would remind you that yesterday's afternoon sitting did not approve the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 15 September, which should therefore be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u4	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the minutes of the afternoon sitting on 15 September. I put to the vote the minutes of the afternoon sitting of 15 September. It's approved. Since there are no comments, the Minutes of yesterday's afternoon sitting are hereby approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2067, 1844 and 2032, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 176, 209, 286, 299, 381, 382, 384, 385, 386, 387, 389, 468, 581, 597, 609, 614, 700, 708, 709, 1008, 1113, 1456, 1587, 1681, 1682, 1683, 1684, 1693, 1713, 1824, 1905, 1921, 1922, 2103, 2295 and 2457.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u9	Mr President, Oscar Luigi Scalfaro said that Parliament is no longer such because we do not speak, we read, we each have our own text. I'd say that went on. Today we no longer listen, we vote and often the genesis of votes is obscure, it is not declared in this House, and it is the result of negotiations that take place elsewhere, in extraparliamentary seats, and that are covered by secrecy, an unmotivated and unmotivable reserve. For example, I would have expected someone in this House yesterday afternoon to explain what happened throughout the day: six times a political force that is part of the majority in government did not make its contribution when checking the quorum, blocking the work of this House. Then she showed up. What did you get in return, during this negotiation, by weighing your absence? According to the Newspaper Fact, Senator Lumia would have been given an undertaking to withdraw an amendment that the limitation period for certain environmental offences, such as asbestos, would no longer take place at the time of the crime but later, since the latency of asbestos disease is very long and the damage is known long after. Others argue that the subject of yesterday's dark negotiation was the imposition of trust. I do not yet see Mr Boschi, but he may come to the question of trust. Still others link what was happening with what was happening in the other branch of Parliament, to the House, where something highly innovative has happened: the majority of the Government has tabled a parliamentary motion that, unlike the other parliamentary motions, which have always committed the Government, this time commits Parliament to change a law that that majority of the Government has finally passed just a few months ago and on which the Government has asked for confidence. They are practical - both the absence of the Aventine only for a day not declared and not explained by a majority force yesterday in the Senate, and the upheaval of the sense of the parliamentary motion - that humiliate Parliament and when the humiliation comes from the government itself and the majority itself should ask questions. Let us come to the measure we are examining today. I say immediately that there are many aspects of this positive and improving measure of the penal code and of the criminal procedure code and I give to Minister Orlando that he has committed himself, that he has been present in the Commission, that he has removed from the table some of the rags and obstacles, but if you read on the front page the theme of the measure already understand that the real issue of the debate, that which is at heart to a substantial part of public opinion, is hidden, in a transformist style, because the majority is uneven and therefore every time we discuss serious things is divided and in order not to divide it, the nature of the struggle is hidden. I'll read you a passage, if you have the patience to listen to it: In Italy, in prison perhaps also the wealthy, the professionals, the more or less important people and those who belong to a certain social class sometimes make us a visit, but as far as we remain there only the poor (...) Ninety-nine times out of a hundred, in fact, with time, with appeals, counter-appeals and cassation, even the initial convictions are then erased. Who wrote this sentence? Senator Giarrusso of the 5 Star Movement that we heard in this House yesterday? Did a Libera activist write it? No, ladies and gentlemen, this sentence was written on Monday's "Corriere della Sera" by an intellectual with a moderate reputation, Professor Galli della Loggia. The question is: justice in this country is not fair if they, gentlemen, can say, in prison we never go, if we manage to avoid punishment, if any lawyer is in front of a moneyy client, before even seeing the merit of the accusation to verify that it is not an accusation against the public administration or a fake in the budget or even an accusation of corruption, he tells him not to worry, so we will not get to the conviction because he will try to get prescribed, thus defending the accused not in the trial, but from the trial. It was a matter that had to be settled loyally. It was to be placed loyally at the debate in this House. There are, in fact, two reasons: one is the one that says that we cannot continue like this, one must give just justice, at a certain point, one must restrain this tendency of the rich and powerful to defend themselves not in the trial, but from the trial; the other is the one that says that one cannot keep an accusation for life against a citizen, and the reasonable duration of the trial is a principle of guarantee absolutely not eliminateable. It would have been wonderful if there had been such a discussion. I was gonna be a part of it. Personally, with great respect for the right-wing colleagues who have supported the most guaranteed thesis, between the two requirements I maintain that in an exceptional situation, waiting for justice to be speeded up, it can be established that after a conviction of first degree (in fact, there are already two judgments of the third judge, because there is also the gip), the prescription terms stop, forcing the lawyer after the conviction and not first to defend the accused in the trial and not from the trial, with the quirk, with the letter that does not arrive, with the email that is lost somewhere. But that is my position, there are colleagues who come from the ranks of the judiciary or the lawyer who know much more about it than I do. I would have listened with interest and respect to their point of view. But this is not the debate that has taken place either in this House or in the Commission, unfortunately. The debate that has taken place is another one. For example, the two souls have found an understanding with a very popular, demagogic device, someone would say populist: increasing the penalties. In the measure there is an increase of the penalties for the crimes that are typical of white collars and there is an increase, for par condicio, also of the penalties for the theft and theft with tear. Among other things, the increase in penalties often means an increase in the minimum penalty, which is an operation - be aware of it, senators - that wants to tie hands to the judge. This denies a bit both guaranteeing and the rule of law because there are cases in which the judge, if not bound by a very high minimum of punishment, can recognize that that particular crime and that particular case did not have the same capacity to offend other crimes that have the same title but are committed in a different situation. This way of hiding the contradictions that exist in a majority - I repeat - transformist and of making the face fierce to the outside, so that everyone can say that they have increased the penalties for crimes against the public administration and that they have increased also for the gypsy who does the theft with tear, for the gypsy who pays attention to your property in the subway of Rome, this way of doing is a way that strongly delegitimizes Parliament. From this point of view, I believe that the measure we are debating, albeit with absolutely appreciable elements, is profoundly ambiguous, the son of a legislature in which instead of really discussing, splitting up and then finding a synthesis in Parliament, we are looking for other solutions, I repeat, essentially transforming. We will soon know whether or not the government will put its trust in it, whether the amendments will be maintained or not. I just say to you that if we continue to saw the branch, not on which we are seated (it is not important), but on which our democracy is seated we will bring a very serious damage to the country. The things that are happening these days, between yesterday and the day before yesterday, give the impression of a Parliament even more detached from Italian society. But the fault of this is precisely those who, in the name of governability, always proceed to new impositions or referrals when the impositions are not possible. I recommend to my fellow Members that they read the article by Michele Ainis on today's Republic, which explains how they have moved from muscle smashing, from grit to time loss and from speed as a system criterion to systematic postponement: referral back to Italicum, referral back to the issue of prescription, referral back to almost everything. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u10	Senator Albertini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u11	Mr President, we are facing a major reform. About forty articles of the penal code and the criminal procedure code are concerned, so this is a major change in existing legislation on extremely sensitive issues. In the time allocated to me, I will make a fairly detailed survey, even though for titles and not analytically for each article, with some comment on what has been mainly the work of the Commission Justice, of which I belong, and, in this context, of the Parliamentary Group I represent here. The arguments of the bill are varied and concern the reform of the prescription, the tightening of crimes against the heritage, the delegation for the reform of the interceptions and various measures on the simplification of the criminal process. In addition, the issue of the reform of the penitentiary system has been addressed, with particular attention to so-called repair justice. We come to the crucial point, which concerns articles 7 to 12 of the draft law, which concerns limitation. Following the examination of the Chamber of Deputies, two main changes have been made to the current rules on prescription: one scenario concerns all offences, the second scenario concerns three specific offences. For all offences, the suspension of the pending prescription is two years after the conviction of first degree and one year after the appeal. A further suspension of the limitation period is permitted for a request for a questioning abroad (for a maximum of six months), for expert opinions of particular complexity (for a maximum of three months) and for the submission of an application for a recusal of the court. This is all about the crimes. For three specific offences a special regime is introduced: for corruption for the exercise of office, (Article 318); for corruption by act contrary to office duties (Article 319); for corruption in judicial proceedings (Article 319-b). The time required to prescribe the crime, for these specific crimes, will no longer be equal only to the maximum of the edittal penalty, but will be equal to the maximum of the edittal penalty increased by half. On a more specific subject, I note that, following the work of the Senate Justice Commission and the approval of the amendments of the People's Area Group, there are some changes, which I shall list. For all crimes, the suspension of the limitation period is one year and six months after the conviction of first instance, instead of the two I mentioned before, and one year and six months after the appeal, instead of one. The reduction of the block after the first degree is important, because it is especially at that stage and not after the appeal (so, as we have seen, there is an increase of six months of the prescription), that the prescription has the highest chances of operating. The termination of the prescription will no longer be possible in case of particularly complex investigations (before the intervention of the Senate Justice Commission this argument had a period of three months) and neither will the court's request for recusal lead to the extinction of the prescription. The withdrawal and rejection of some of the amendments on the date of the limitation from the acquisition of news of crime and on the blocking of the prescription after the judgment at first instance were the cause of a reconditioning of the framework. For these corruption offences, the increase in the time required to prescribe the crime (the maximum sentence increased by half) is confirmed, but the possibility that cases of interruption of the prescription can be added to this calculation is excluded. In this way, the maximum time is reduced to prescribe: for example, for the crime of corruption by act contrary to the duties of office, regulated by article 319 of the penal code, it will take 18 years instead of 21 years and nine months, as would result from the text fired by the House. Such discipline is also provided for in erratic induction offences to give and promise usefulness (Article 319-c of the Criminal Code), corruption of persons in charge of a public service (Article 320 of the Criminal Code), punishment for the corruptor (Article 321 of the Criminal Code), undue induction and corruption of European and foreign officials (Article 322- bis of the Criminal Code) and aggravated fraud for the attainment of public disbursements (Article 640- bis of the Criminal Code). Let us now come to further notes on the time it takes for a crime to be prescribed. After the changes introduced by the Chamber, a further period is added to the sixth paragraph of Article 157 of the Criminal Code to provide for an increase of half the limitation periods for corruption offences for the exercise of the function (Article 318 of the Criminal Code), corruption for an act contrary to official duties (Article 319 of the Criminal Code) and corruption in judicial acts (Article 319-b of the Criminal Code). The lengthening of the prescription for such offences is even more pronounced considering that the penalties for the same offences have already recently been tightened by Law No 69 of 2015 (so-called Fat Law). In the Senate, the Commission amended the text proposed by the House and returned Article 157 unchanged from the current wording of the penal code. Let us now make a few comments on Article 158, which concerns the date on which the limitation is to take effect. The amendment made by the Chamber states that if the offences of ill-treatment in the family (Article 572 of the Criminal Code), trafficking in persons (Articles 600, 601 and 602 of the Criminal Code), sexual exploitation of minors (Articles 600-a, 600-b, 600-c, 600-c, 600-c, and 600- quinques of the Criminal Code), sexual violence (Articles 609-a, 609-c, 609-d, 609-g and 609-j) and stalking (Article 612-a of the Criminal Code) are committed to the detriment of minors, the limitation period shall start from the completion of the eighteenth year of the victim's age, unless the criminal proceedings have been carried out previously, when the prescription takes effect on the acquisition of the crime report. The examination of the Senate in the Commission confirms the amendment of the Chamber. Let us now turn to the points concerning Article 159, which concerns the suspension of the requirement. The text approved in the Chamber of Deputies specifies that the time limit from which the prescription is suspended is that of the date of the provision by which the prosecutor submits the request and until the day on which the request is accepted. The text also specifies that the time limit shall be suspended until the judgment to which the matter has been referred has been determined. In addition, three further cases of suspension of the course of the prescription are included: the interrogation abroad, the expertise of particular complexity and the submission of an application for a recusal of the judge. Further cases of suspension of the limitation are introduced: after the sentence of conviction of first instance the limitation period remains suspended until the filing of the judgment of appeal and in any case for a period not exceeding two years; after the sentence of conviction on appeal, even if pronounced in the matter of referral, the limitation period remains suspended until the final judgment is given and in any case for a period not exceeding one year; finally, in the case of acquittal of the accused in the subsequent degree of judgment, the said periods of suspension are recompensed for the purpose of calculating the limitation period. In addition, in the event of a contest between the case of suspension due to convictions in the degree of merit and the other suspensive cases provided for in the first paragraph (e.g. authorization to proceed, referral to other judgment, impediment of the parties or defenders, interrogation abroad, complex expert opinions, recusal of the judge and absence of the accused), the time limit is accordingly extended. The Senate Commission, acting on this body of legislation, specifies that, in the event of referral of the matter to another judgment, the deadline shall be suspended until the day on which the matter is decided. It is established that the suspension of the limitation is no longer provided for in the case of expert opinions of particular complexity and of a court's request for a recusal and changes the further cases of the suspension of the limitation as follows. After the judgment of conviction at first instance, the limitation period shall be suspended until the judgment of appeal is lodged and in any case for a period not exceeding one year and six months. After the judgment of conviction on appeal, even if pronounced in the matter of referral, the limitation period shall remain suspended until the final judgment is delivered and, in any case, for a period not exceeding one year and six months. Finally, the periods of suspension are recomputed in determining the limitation period, even if the judgment is declared void, pursuant to Article 604, paragraphs 4 and 5-a of the Code of Criminal Procedure. All these speeches have been voted on by a majority of the members of the Justice Commission and these are amendments proposed by members of the Group to which I belong. Let us now come to a few comments concerning the interruption of the prescription, as set out in Article 160 of the Criminal Code. The Senate Commission confirms the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, with which it is stated that the interrogation made to the judicial police by proxy of the prosecutor determines the interruption of the course of the prescription, overcoming a question of interpretative nature arising in cases particularly frequent in the jurisprudence. Let me now reflect on the effects of the suspension and interruption (see Article 161 of the Criminal Code). The text approved by the House of Deputies provides that the interruption will take effect on all those who committed the crime, while the suspension will take effect on those accused against whom it is proceeding. The current wording of the penal code requires that both suspension and interruption of the prescription take effect against all those who have committed a crime. The Senate Justice Commission confirms the provisions of the House's text regarding the differentiated effects of interruption and suspension: it confirms the increase of the time necessary to prescribe the crime (maximum of the sentence increased by half), but, changing the normative reference to the House's text, exactly from Article 157 to Article 161 of the penal code, it allows to include in the increase of the limitation times also the act switches. This reduces the maximum time to prescribe. For example, for the crime of corruption by act contrary to the duties of office, regulated by Article 319 of the Criminal Code, it will take eighteen years instead of twenty-one years and nine months, as would result from the text fired by the House. Such discipline is also provided for offences of undue induction, giving or promising usefulness (Article 319-c), corruption of person in charge of public exercise (Article 320), punishment for the corruptor (Article 321), undue induction and corruption of European officials and foreign states (Article 322-a) and aggravated fraud for the attainment of public disbursements (Article 640-a). These speeches, like the others I mentioned earlier, voted by a large majority by the Senate Justice Commission, are amendments proposed by the People's Area Group. We now come to the subject of the discipline of notifications, which may seem like an almost accounting argument of law, a technicality, but has considerable consequences on the right to defence and on the whole process, even in terms of substance. The withdrawal of the rapporteur's amendment, on 16.0.1000, which rewritten the whole matter of notifications with an accelerated purpose which did not adequately take into account the rights and safeguards to guarantee the defence, put at risk the defendant's knowledge of the accused and the correction of this approach was implemented. I said at the beginning that the corpus iuris we are dealing with is also concerned with the tightening up of crimes against property and is dealt with in Articles 4 to 6 of the draft law. For the thefts in the home and with tear is increased the penalty: the imprisonment goes from one to three years, while the financial penalty is elevated, bringing it to a minimum of 927 euros up to a maximum of 1,500 euros, instead of a minimum of 309 up to a maximum of 1,032 euros. For the aggravated theft the minimum of imprisonment is increased from one to two years and the financial penalty is elevated, bringing it to a minimum of 927 euros up to a maximum of 1,500 euros, instead of 103 to 1,032 euros. Finally, for the robbery the minimum of imprisonment is increased from three to four years and the financial penalty is raised, bringing it to a minimum of 927 euros up to a maximum of 2,500 euros, instead of 516 to 2,065 euros. Also for the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange, regulated by Article 3 of the bill, a tightening of the sanctioning framework is envisaged. In particular, the sentence of imprisonment has increased from six to twelve years, instead of the current sentence from four to ten years; it is always possible to apply the special charge with reference to the Let us now come to another sensitive issue dealt with by the draft law: the delegation for the reform of interceptions, which concerns Article 35. This article develops the guarantee of confidentiality of telephone and telematic communications and conversations intercepted, in accordance with Article 15 of the Constitution. It is specified the procedural scan at the selection hearing of the intercepted material, in compliance with the contradictory and the requirements of investigation. Special attention is devoted to the protection of the confidentiality of communications and conversations of persons occasionally involved in the proceedings, in particular defenders in talks with the Assistant, and communications which are not relevant for the purposes of criminal justice. A new criminal case, punished with imprisonment of no more than four years, is introduced to punish those who spread the content of audiovisual footage or recordings of fraudulent phone conversations, with the aim of causing damage to the reputation. The use of interceptions in proceedings for the most serious crimes of public officials against the public administration is simplified and, finally, the reduction of the use of remote pickers in portable devices (distance recordings with Trojan virus) is introduced compared to the text of the rapporteurs: always allowed, but with specific motivation of the judge, for serious crimes including mafia and terrorism, but not for the generic association with criminals (Article 416 of the Criminal Code). Outside of these cases, the virus can only be used in private homes if the crime is being committed there. I think I have exceeded the time available to me by thirty-three seconds and, therefore, if the President allows me, I will continue to the end with two more minutes and no more; if, on the contrary, the particularly Cartesian rigor with which you chair me blocks me, I will stop at this point. What do I do? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Given the courtesy you asked for it, I'll give you two more minutes. Mr Albertini (AP-NCD-UDC) We are still talking about Article 35, which provides for measures to simplify the criminal process. With regard to the reform of appeals judgments, the Government is delegated to provide for the possibility of appeal by cassation only for violation of the law of judgments issued in a position of appeal in proceedings under the jurisdiction of the judge of peace; to provide that the attorney-general at the court of appeal may appeal only in cases of avocation and acquiescence of the public prosecutor to the court of first instance; to provide also for the right of the prosecutor to appeal against the judgment of conviction only when he has changed the title of the offence or has excluded the existence of an aggravating circumstance with special effect or which establishes a penalty of a species other than the ordinary one of the crime; to provide for the defendant's right to appeal against the decisions of dismissal issued at the end of the debate, unless they are pronounced with the formulas: "The fact does not exist or the defendant has not committed it." In addition, the Government is delegated to provide for ownership of the incidental appeal in the case of the defendant and the limits of propriety. Finally, Article 36 of the draft law provides for a simplification of procedures: there is the provision of deferred and possible contradictory for decisions under the jurisdiction of the magistrate and the supervisory court, with the exception of those relating to the revocation of alternative measures to detention. A review of the arrangements and conditions for access to alternative measures is envisaged; a revision of the system of preclusions to access to prison benefits; a forecast of remedial justice activities; the enhancement of work, in all its forms and of volunteering; and the adaptation of the rules of the penitentiary order to the reeducational needs of minors, with particular attention to education and contact with external society, in function of social reintegration. I thank you for your attention and thank you, Mr President, for the extra minutes you have given me. [[Applause from Senator Torrisi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Colucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u13	President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the House is faced with an extremely important measure, which contains amendments to the penal code, the code of criminal procedure and the penitentiary system; a very complex measure in many respects, the result of close work by the Commission on justice, where there has been a confrontation between political forces, sometimes even harsh but always constructive and very profitable. Recalling briefly the gestation of this bill, as Senator Cucca did in his report to the Assembly before the summer break, the Justice Commission launched, on 3 March 2016, the examination of the draft law n. 2067 and 2032, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, together with several other draft laws of parliamentary initiative. As a testament to the great in-depth study carried out by the Justice Commission, I would like to point out that, following the work already carried out by the corresponding Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, numerous hearings have been held. For example, authoritative personalities such as Dr. Armando Spataro, Prosecutor of the Republic of Turin, Dr. Giuseppe Pignatone, Prosecutor of the Republic at the Court of Rome and Dr. Giuseppe Borrelli, Assistant Prosecutor coordinator of the anti-Mafia district management of Naples, as well as the leaders of the Union of Italian Criminal Chambers have been heard. The unified text, drawn up by the rapporteurs and adopted by the Commission last May, also absorbed the rules of limitation, originally contained in draft law No 1844, which, however, contained many problematic aspects. It should be recalled that, in the referee, the unified text (including the prescription scheme included therein) has been extensively amended to bring some critical aspects back to the criteria of reasonableness and compliance with the guarantees and safeguards inherent in the principle of fair process. The main aim of this measure has been to modernise the judicial system from the outset and to respond to the needs represented for a modern and efficient system not only by the European Union, but also by operators in the sector and by the ministerial study committees that have worked to develop proposals for reform and innovation. Turning to the merits of the measure, I would like to stress how it said an innovative discipline regarding interceptions: the delegation to the Government provides that the confidentiality of communications is guaranteed, with particular regard to the protection of the confidentiality of communications and conversations of persons occasionally involved in the proceedings and communications which are not relevant for the purposes of criminal justice. There is a new crime in order to punish those who broadcast audio-visual footage or recordings of phone conversations taken abusively to denigrate other people. On the other hand, certainly not with positivity the principle of simplifying the use of interceptions in proceedings for the most serious crimes of public officials against public administration is stated. Finally, limits are outlined for the use of remote sensors in portable devices, i.e. remote recordings with Trojan viruses. The principles and guiding criteria for the use of this particular and delicate instrument have been formulated by providing that the activation of the microphone takes place only as a result of a special command sent remotely and not with the only insertion of the computer receiver, and in any case in compliance with the limits established in the authorization decree of the judge, providing as a general rule that the virus can be used in the places of private residence only if the crime is carried out there and providing, finally, that the interceptive results so obtained can be used for trial purposes only of the offences subject to the authorization order and can be used in different procedures provided that they are indispensable for the verification of crimes for which it is expected to be stopped in flagance (ex Article 380 of the Code of Criminal Procedure). In addition, I would like to recall how positive action is taken to increase the penalties for hateful crimes against the heritage. Article 4, in fact, intervenes on the sanctioning framework of the crime of theft in home and of scoppo, raising the minimum edittale of the prison sentence (from the current year to three years) and the pecuniary penalty (in the minimum from the current 309 euros to 927 euros and in the maximum from the current 1,032 to 1,500 euros). Article 5 amends Article 625 of the Criminal Code, which contains a list of aggravating circumstances for which the crime of theft is punished with the penalty of imprisonment from one to six years and with the fine from 103 euros to 1,032 euros. The bill tightens the sanctioning framework, providing for the penalty of imprisonment from two to six years and the fine from 927 euros to 1,500 euros. Article 6 intervenes on the crime of robbery referred to in Article 628 of the Criminal Code, raising the edittal limits of the sentence both detention (from the current three to four years in minimum) and pecuniary (from the current 516 euros to 927 euros in minimum and from the current 2.065 euros to 2,500 euros in maximum). I would therefore like to comment briefly on the other key points of the measure. A great deal has been said in recent years about simplifying the procedures of the criminal process: this draft law aims precisely at this objective when the rules on the reform of appeals judgments. In particular, I refer to forecasts such as the possibility of the Court of Cassation being held to be liable only for violation of the law of judgments issued in a position of appeal in proceedings under the jurisdiction of the judge of peace; the possibility for the attorney general to the court of appeal to appeal only in cases of advocacy and acquiescence of the prosecutor to the court of first instance; and the possibility for the prosecutor to appeal against the judgment of conviction only when he has changed the title of the offence or has excluded the existence of an aggravating circumstance with special effect or establishing a penalty of a species other than the ordinary one of the crime. I would like to remind you of the rule which provides for the extinction of the crime for remedial conduct: it is an institution that, on the deflagration plane, will bring a series of processes, which absorb economic and instrumental resources, to be celebrated with simplicity and satisfaction of justice today impossible. This option will, of course, be provided for crimes that do not cause social alarm, because they are offences against the offending person; and the latter, once they have been fully compensated, is more than satisfied. The measure then dedicates a specific delegation to the reform of the penitentiary order, in order to finally implement the principles of the reeducational function of the sentence and respect for the dignity of the prisoners (men, women and minors). In particular, I would like to refer to the provisions which encourage access to alternative measures and to prison benefits, which are intended to facilitate usability; to the identification of remedial justice activities; to the enhancement of employment and voluntary opportunities for prisoners, all intended as qualifying moments of their social recovery. In this context, it was intended to give legislative dignity, in our opinion, in a virtuous and attentive way to the requests that every day come from our prison system in relation to the needs of minors, in the sense of greater access to education, personal and social growth and to the particular and specific needs of women recluse and of women detained mothers, who live situations and realities too often incompatible with their conditions. The delegation also contains the need for a revision of the provisions of the penitentiary law relating to penitentiary medicine, including through the strengthening of psychiatric assistance in prison institutions, the use of audiovisual links, the recognition of the right to affectivity; it encourages specific interventions to promote the integration of foreign prisoners. The bill also addresses the issue of the reform of the prescription, finally balanced, as voted by the Justice Commission of this Senate, after months of different assessments and proposals, some also characterized by profiles of little liberal guarantee. Specifically, Article 7 of the draft law amends Article 158 of the penal code, which governs the date of the limitation period. A suspension of one year and six months after the first grade and as many as after the appeal is made. In this way the institute remains characterised by a liberal and guaranteeing approach, inspired by the principles of fair trial and protection of the right to defence. In other words, the response to the procedural requirements of longer periods is combined with respect for the principle of reasonable duration of the process. In addition, the calculation of the prescription is modified for some serious corruption offences. Therefore, by adding a further paragraph to the article of the Code, it is established that, for offences of ill-treatment in the family (Article 572 of the Criminal Code), treats persons (Articles 600, 601 and 602 of the Criminal Code), sexual exploitation of minors (Articles 600-a, 600-b, 600-c, 600-c, 600-c, 600-d of the Criminal Code) and sexual violence (Articles 609-a, 609-c, 609-d, 609-g, 609-j, 609-j) and stalking (Article 612-a of the Criminal Code), if committed to the detriment of minors, the limitation period starts from the completion of the eighteenth year of the victim's age, unless the criminal proceedings have been carried out previously; in the latter case, in fact, the limitation period starts from the acquisition of the crime report. With regard to criminal proceedings, I would like to mention in particular the provision which imposes certain time limits for the prosecution by the prosecutor, with the involvement of the Attorney General in the appeal court. The latter will also have to ensure compliance with the provisions relating to the registration of the news of crime, with possible disciplinary illegality in case of violation of the same. The text contains further important changes in this area, such as interventions on the defendant's irreversible inability to participate in the trial; on the discipline of preliminary investigations and the filing procedure; on the discipline of special rites, the preliminary hearing, the hearing and the structure of the judgment of merit; on the simplification of appeals and on the revision of the discipline of distance proceedings. The Commission, during its work in the referee, has appropriately agreed to postpone to a more complete and thoughtful treatment the reform of the matter of notifications; the accelerated aim of the norms initially imagined, in fact, did not adequately take into account the rights and protections to guarantee the defence, putting at risk the knowledge, by the accused, of the accused charges. The People's Area Group has maintained in recent months a constructive and open approach to confronting other political forces of majority and opposition. We are convinced, in fact, that this is a measure that brings innovation, efficiency and rationalization within a judicial and penitentiary machine that needs more attention from the legislator. Our efforts and proposals have always focused on the merits of the measure, without ever taking on the contours of preconceived or unnecessarily extremist fortifications. In conclusion, I should like to thank my colleagues in the Commission, both in the majority and in the opposition, who have contributed to the adoption of the text that has been brought to this House. Thanks should also be given to the Government, represented by the Undersecretaries Migliore and Chiavaroli and Minister Orlando, who have constantly participated in the work, offering proposals, alternatives and support both in terms of content and mediation capacity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u14	Mr President, while the civil and criminal courtrooms of our nation are begging justice workers to try to curb - or at least coordinate - the bulimic and disorderly legislative production in the area of both civil and criminal justice, we are today facing a bill that intervenes, again in an incisive way, on many articles of the penal code, the code of criminal procedure and even on the penitentiary order. It betrays, therefore, a clear desire for political action that seems to move towards the now old and censorable practice to which I referred, namely a disordered, disconnected, disorganic legislative production, which does nothing but make the regulatory framework often more confused and certainly moving away from what should be the objectives of more efficient and fairer justice. With this brief premise I go to explain some points - some of which have already been the subject of discussion by my colleagues of the 5 Star Movement Group and also by other groups here in the Senate - in which we see the most critical issues. In the matter of limitation, we have repeatedly defined the government proposal to extend the suspension of the limitation period by three years - eighteen months after the judgment of first instance and eighteen months after the judgment of second instance - as a warm cloth, which will certainly, statistically, affect a number of procedures that will not exhaust their course with a prescription pronunciation. However, this is undoubtedly a far cry from what - in our view - would be necessary. Similarly, the increase of half of the limitation period, as provided for in Article 161 of the Criminal Code, for offences against the public administration and for the offence of aggravated fraud for public disbursements, cannot fail to be seen in favour of itself. Once again, however, we are far from what - in our view, and in reality not only to our own, but to many legal practitioners, lawyers, magistrates and otherwise - would be necessary. We believe that, in the matter of limitation, it should be established once and for all that, at the outcome of a trial, where the exercise of defence could be carried out completely, in the case of a conviction, it would be appropriate and fair, maintaining all the defensive guarantees for any subsequent appeals, that the limitation should cease to apply. We are well aware that the criticism of this approach - as we read in the newspapers, sometimes repeated in the classrooms of the Commissions and here in the Chamber - is that, in doing so, we obtain the opposite result, keeping the defendants hanging for years - if not even for decades, for the most serious hypotheses - the result of a process which, due to the inefficiencies of the justice system, implies a sanction in re ipsa. We are fully aware - and especially those who are lawmakers - of how much sanction the mere fact of being tried, of having to face a judgment in terms of economic, psychological, family balance and work. That is why I would like to remind you that in our proposals for amendments, from the law of stability to the provision that deals with us, we accompany the proposal to stop the prescription with the first-degree judgment of input to the Government and its majority, which holds the levers of power in order to effectively strengthen the machinery of justice. This means, first of all, allocating more than 1.3% of GDP, which Italy is now able to allocate to the machine justice; having the courage to make historical decisions aimed at improving human, instrumental, logistical and then even legal resources, in order to ensure that the right to have a judgment of absolution or condemnation - right of the accused and of the community - is guaranteed in reasonable terms and balance. That is why we do not like the proposal resulting from the political agreement of the majority forces. And then we will see whether the inauspicious prediction of a position of a matter of confidence will fall on this text as it is or as modified in a maxi amendment. With a hallucinating and unbearable hood, on such a sensitive matter as criminal matters, the Government imposes a delegation to itself and to Parliament more demeaned than ever with a matter of trust. But we want to believe that this will not happen. But if that happens, we'll hear our voice on the spot. The prescription in these terms is not good for us. The most virtuous proposal is the one that we continue to make here again in the amendment. The other sensitive point to which reference has been made is the delegation that the Government considers to have to be attributed in the matter of interceptions. We in the Committee on Justice held the hearings of the prosecutors of the main prosecutors who, in previous months, had prepared protocols governing the use of interceptions. The protocols were all aimed in a similar way to guarantee shared and sacred principles such as the right of the judicial authority to be able to conduct investigations freely in cases where interception is permitted, the right to defence and the right to privacy. We continue to say that we do not see any need for legislative intervention, all the more done with delegation and, therefore, with a wording that risks being a blank rule, which will put its hands on such a delicate matter and on which the prosecutors themselves, whom I referred to, told us - we have all heard it - that, in their view, it was not necessary. We can then say and predict that the measure provided for in the draft law will not be necessary, at most it may be harmful in one sense or another with regard to the right and effectiveness of the investigation, the right to defence, which must always be kept in mind, and also the right of privacy of the accused and other persons. In those protocols, in fact, there is also a system for the protection of persons outside criminal proceedings. As history teaches us - as my colleague Cappelletti reminded us yesterday - the cases of violation of privacy law, with reference to the content of the interceptions carried out in judicial areas, count on the fingers of - at most - three hands. In any case, these are very limited incidents that do not justify an intervention that will apply to all citizens. We do not agree, therefore, that we want to give a delegation to the Government on wiretapping. In Article 35, which regulates interceptions, we have noticed something that has made us jump out of the chair and we are surprised that a more lively debate has not been held here and also in the media. Article 35 (1) (5) (b) provides for a new crime. We have heard that yesterday, in the House, a text on cyberbullying was fired far from the hypothesis laid off by this branch of Parliament. This is a rule that many Internet communication scholars, journalists, intellectuals and university professors already point out to us as extremely dangerous. Far from protecting the reasons of minors from the use of the network for defamatory or dangerous purposes (which constitute the new crime of cyberbullying), it may turn towards a liberticide rule of the use of the network. With this measure the Government intends to establish a new crime for which there is a maximum sentence of four years of imprisonment for those who will broadcast multimedia material, videos or conversations even telephones made in their presence, leaving aside the interceptions that would obviously be abusive. If I spread that material, a conversation I have with a colleague, if he considers it defamant and therefore detrimental to the reputation and image of others, if acquired, says the text, fraudulently - it is an adverb with the contours not very clear, because there would be to think about the fraud or perhaps the modalities of the scam - and anyway without consent, then the person who participated in the conversation or was taken in a video, in case of dissemination, can protect his alleged right by subjecting himself to the risk of criminal proceedings. And this will happen with a criminal penalty that is really relevant to this crime, and we know very well that to date there is still and is in force the crime of defamation, and we do not see the need for further protection, if not relative, because journalists are excluded, the right of news or defence or in the administrative judicial sphere. To whom, then, is this rule addressed? It is addressed to the ordinary citizen, and we like to think of our citizens, activists or not, of the 5 Star Movement, to those who are still forced to enter the municipal councils - for example - where there are regulations that do not allow the video shooting of what should be the transparent house of the citizens of the municipality. This rule can then be used by a city councilman who, considering himself to be damaged in his own reputation and image because taken up by a citizen present in the public, who then may have spread part of his speech in the Chamber, will be able to denounce him complaining about this kind of injury. This liberticide rule, useless because the protection of privacy and its reputation already exists, accompanied by what is coming from the House, denotes a hysterical reaction by the legislator also to the sad recent chronicles that see an abuse of the network or of the people, of the head of many of our compatriots, which must have nothing to do with the neutrality and freedom of thought and expression that must be possible to carry out in what is the only means that still, good or bad, guarantees a freedom from the great publishing groups or the political lines imposed by someone. I see that my microphone is blinking, but I would like to borrow the courtesy already exercised against Mr Albertini, who has gotten two more minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll give it to him, even though I've given it to him for a long time. BUCCARELLA (M5S). I knew I could count on your courtesy, not least because I don't have much to add. Another very brief fact that I took concerns the surprise that I have not heard anyone so far that, perhaps moving from a perspective of defense against the "justisticism" that may emerge, he has spent a word on what is provided for in Article 33 in the matter of distance participation at the hearing. These are videoconferences that, in the legal text provided, are established by the court automatically, without any possibility of assessing cases for a number of offences. We understand very well: it is an understandable rule, aimed at saving due to the lack of translation of people held in another city. In this case it is good that the examination of a defendant or even of a witness can take place in videoconference, aware, for those who have judicial practice, that this is however a limitation of the possibility of carrying out a real and in-depth examination. However, this can be justified at least for some crimes and in some situations. In letter (e) there is an unintelligible provision that should have been noted by those who stand up as defenders of the right of defence. It is said that in all the processes in which the distance audio-visual connection is carried out, the judge may, on application, allow the other parties and their defenders to intervene at a distance by assuming the cost of the connection. It is said that if lawyers and parties further to the defendant or defendants - so we can think of the civil parts or defendants for related crime and a whole series of procedural figures - want to participate in the videoconferencing, they must take charge of the connection costs, evidently remaining the fixing of such costs in total indeterminateness. And this is not good for the right of defence and the possibility of fully exercising a defence in the judicial field. Finally, I would like to take up the question on which Mr Giarrusso has already spoken and will come back about the use of computer sensors, the so-called trojan horse, in our mobile phones. Last week we all read the sad news of the first female officer arrested in Taranto as a result of corruption, facts of which we have learned through the use of trojans, which allow to operate remotely the microphone of a mobile phone in order to acquire evidence and sources of information that can verify or not the consumption of a crime, perhaps against the public administration. We point out - and we have tabled amendments to this effect - that having provided in the current text that this mode can be activated by the Forces of Order and investigators only if, at that time and where the mobile phone is located with the trojan horse inside, criminal activity is being carried out, it is a forecast that, undoubtedly, it will only limit the investigative capacity. It will require, in fact, a prior check, or even of ex post usability, on the use of this type of interceptions, since the microphone could be activated only in the certainty that the criminal activity is being carried out at that time. It would obviously be more reasonable to foresee that the forces of order, in the cases envisaged and with the limits imposed - no one thinks of trawling and a collective interception, let alone us and we hope not even you - is allowed the use of this instrument even in cases where criminal activity can be carried out and there is the legitimate and well-founded reason to think that in a particular room there is a discussion between a corruptor and a corrupter; or if it is known that such activity will have to be carried out. That verb, combined with the present, is not at all good, and it is something on which I urge all my colleagues to pay attention when the time comes for the amendments to be examined. I should like to end by thanking the Presidency for the kind time I have been given. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u15	Senator Bianconi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u16	Mr President, when it comes to justice, the subject is so complex, complex and delicate that we must certainly treat it with extreme caution. I have to say that the work that the Commission has done has led to a very balanced and also very wise result. I know perfectly well that my position on justice is not the same as that of Mr Casson. However, with Mr Casson we have met and found a connection point, always for an improvement. I know that we will continue to have different positions and that Senator Casson will continue to support them, just as we will continue to support the goodness of this text, my Group and I. I must also say that, in the long run, the debate in the Commission has been tightened, and I must thank all its members, the Government, in the figure of the Undersecretary of Chiavaroli, the Heads of the majority and opposition groups, the rapporteur himself and President D'Ascola, if the text that we are going to approve has its own ratio and its own balance, which we would like to maintain unchanged. Even more cohesive and numerical majorities than what we have in the Senate have not succeeded in achieving the current result in the past. And this we must write, in a positive form, also to a close work of confrontation on themes - I repeat - extremely complex and articulated. I have to say that the wisdom of being able to stop at a certain point and, for a greater good, to renounce even a precise, punctual position, in which one believes is a value that I think is extremely positive and of which I would also like to pay tribute to my colleague Lumia, because yesterday he demonstrated a wisdom and ability to speak that is honorable to him, to his group of belongings and therefore also to the work that this House has been able to do and to what it will be able to do in the coming weeks. In the same way I must also thank Minister Orlando because he has done nothing particular, except to represent a refined meeting point and also of precise reference, so that we can at least calibrate, adjust and complete this topic. Even in this case the higher good certainly does not conflict with the positions that can be of personal type or culture or belonging. I therefore believe that we have certainly done a better job than that of the House, to which we will certainly deliver for a third reading a better product, which stands, is balanced and wise and which - I want to say this - is the result of a close comparison between different positions (the richness of politics is also in this tight and often harsh confrontation, but which has as its ultimate goal, especially in a field as delicate as that of justice, the good of our citizens). Mr President, I will read some parts of my speech, and then I will ask you for the courtesy of being able to publish it in the Annex to the Minutes of the sitting, because I imagine that I have already consumed a fair share of my twenty minutes. However, I would like to hand over the text because I want it to remain in the documents what I see in this reform as positive, highlighting its most important passages. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the measure we are debating here today is a comprehensive and comprehensive reform of the criminal process. There are many aims: firstly, one of the main objectives is to reduce the number and duration of criminal proceedings, which is in parallel with the strengthening of the punitive response to certain crimes considered to be of particular seriousness or social alarm. The strengthening of the guarantees and prerogatives of the offending persons is also achieved through the strengthening of the protection of the privacy of the persons involved in the criminal process. Moreover, the modernisation of the discipline of mental illness and the strengthening of the re-educational effects of criminal execution are two of the most innovative aspects of the draft reform of the criminal system as evidenced by the laborious work of the Commission Justice. These are ambitious and far-reaching objectives pursued with tenacity and strenuous compromises. I would like to say that when we talk about compromises, we always think that they are down, but I wonder why we cannot think that we have made upward compromises, that is to say that we have brought new things and positive things into the criminal process. The objective of reducing the number and duration of criminal proceedings is achieved, with a view to reducing the enormous workload of the judicial offices, by introducing a new cause for the extinction of the crime for offences punishable by a criminal offence: this new cause of extinction presupposes the adoption by the guilty party of remedial conduct, in line with recent instances aimed at strengthening the forms of remedial justice in criminal matters. Further instrument is the delegation to the Government for the extension of the hypothesis of procedibility to plaintiff of part, previewing in particular the procedibility to sue of the offended in relation to the offences against the person punished with the only pecuniary edittal penalty or with the edittal prison sentence not superior in the maximum four years, single, joint or alternative to the pecuniary penalty, with the exception of the crime of private violence and the crimes against the patrimony. With a view to limiting the duration of criminal proceedings, avoiding that the prolonged subjection to criminal proceedings itself becomes an early penalty for the accused, the changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure are then moved aimed at reducing the duration of both preliminary investigations, to guarantee the suspect, and of the trial, in particular, widening the possibilities of recourse to the participation at a distance of the accused in the debate; limiting the possibility of defensive exceptions of nullity, inusability or incompetence, in the case of a shortened judgment; above all, limiting and regulating in a more stringent way the system of appeals, eliminating many formalisms that burden the work of the judicial bodies and, above all, of the Court of Cassation. In particular, the reform of the appeals judgments provides for the possibility for the appeal court to appeal only in cases of avocation and acquiescence of the prosecutor to the court of first instance; the right of the prosecutor to appeal against the judgment of conviction only when he has changed the title of the offence or has excluded the existence of an aggravating circumstance with special effect or which establishes a penalty of a species other than the ordinary one of the offence; the legitimacy of the accused to appeal against the decisions of dismissal issued at the end of the debate, unless they are pronounced with the formulas: "The fact does not exist or the accused person has not committed it." The objective of strengthening the guarantees and prerogatives of the offending person, which is located in a wider horizon of overcoming the centrality of the crime in the criminal process and of greater attention to the victim, wants to be strengthened through changes to the code of criminal procedure that guarantee the right of the offending person to be informed of the state of the proceeding during the preliminary investigations, as well as the provision of the nullity of the decree of storage issued in the absence of the notice to the person offended of the request for storage, or before the expiry of the period granted to the offended person to lodge opposition to the request. In the sense of strengthening the protection of the privacy of the persons involved in the criminal process, the delegations to the Government for the revision of the legal record (especially in order to adapt it to the most recent national and European principles in the matter of the protection of personal data) and for a new discipline of the interceptions. The latter will have to be inspired by principles of confidentiality of communications (in particular those not relevant or related to persons only occasionally involved in the procedure: we know very well how a certain press feeds on the publication of interceptions that have absolutely nothing to do with both the guilty person and the information related to the proceeding) and punishable by the spread of fraudulently captured communications, if exclusively aimed at damaging the reputation or image of others. In this area, the Commission's work has led to the regulation of the use of computer receivers - the so-called Trojan viruses - in order to allow them to be used effectively and at the same time respectful of the privacy of citizens. The use of this instrument remains always allowed, but with specific motivation of the judge, for serious crimes including mafia and terrorism, but not for the general association to criminals. Outside of these cases, the virus can only be used in private homes if the crime is being committed there. In particular, Trojans can be used within the framework of a governmental discipline that will have to provide that the transfer of registrations is made only to the proxy server, in order to guarantee originality and integrity of the recordings. Therefore, at the end of the recording the computer receiver will have to be disabled and made permanently unusable. Only computer programs complying with technical requirements established by ministerial decree will have to be used to ensure that the virus is limited to carrying out operations expressly arranged, according to appropriate standards of technical reliability, safety and efficacy. Moreover, without prejudice to the powers of the judge in ordinary cases, where specific cases of urgency arise, the prosecutor may arrange such type of interception, with subsequent validation of the judge within a maximum period of forty-eight hours, provided that the decree of urgency takes into account the specific situations of fact that make the request to the judge impossible for the reasons for which such specific method of interception is necessary for the conduct of the investigations. Finally, it should be foreseen that the results of interceptions which have occasionally involved persons unrelated to the facts for which they are proceeding may in no way be known, disclosed or published. On the subject of limitation, the compromise reached during the intensive work of the Commission Justice consists in the suspension of the period of limitation of one year and six months after the first grade and as many after the appeal. In this way, in our opinion, double-profile requirements are met: on the one hand, the procedural need for longer periods of time to speed up all procedural steps, on the other hand, the need to maintain the guaranteeing nature of the institution, in order to protect the accused. The discipline contained in the previous draft law No. 1844, coming from the Chamber, has certainly been improved and therefore incorporated into the unified text that examined and approved the Senate Justice Commission. In summary, the prescription regime has remained a liberal regime, balanced, albeit with these correctives that determine the lengthening of the terms, for the stages of appeal both in appeal and in Cassation, guaranteeing in any case the exhaustive respect of the principle of the reasonable duration of the process. Mr President, I would like to focus, in particular, on one aspect which I think is particularly innovative and which has gone a little further in the media turmoil over prescription. I am referring, in particular, to the reform of the penitentiary system through, among other things, the revision of the conditions for access to alternative measures and to the benefits of penitentiaries, the increase in prison work, the forecast of specific interventions in favour of foreign prisoners, women recluse and women inmates mothers. The delegation also contains the need for a review of the provisions of the penitentiary law relating to penitentiary medicine, including through the strengthening of psychiatric assistance in prison institutions, the use of audiovisual links, the recognition of the right to affectivity, and encourages specific interventions to promote the integration of foreign prisoners. Of particular importance is the provision of norms aimed at respect for human dignity through the empowerment of prisoners, the maximum conformity of prison life to the external one, dynamic surveillance. The discipline of specific interventions to protect women who are recluse and mothers inmates allows women to live their motherhood, despite the momentary deprivation of freedom. Of particular importance and interest are the guiding principles and criteria for adapting the rules of the penitentiary order to the educational needs of minors. Specifically, a specialised jurisdiction is envisaged and entrusted to the court for minors, without prejudice to the provisions concerning the incompatibility of the supervisory judge who has performed judicial functions in the cognition phase; the provision of provisions concerning the prison organisation of criminal institutions for minors in view of the socialization, responsibility and promotion of the person; the provision of the applicability of the discipline provided for minors at least to young adults, in compliance with the educational processes in place; the provision of alternative measures to detention in accordance with the educational authorities of the sentenced minor; the extension of the criteria for access to alternative measures to detention, with particular reference to the requirements for the admission of minors to probation to social services and semi-freedom; the elimination of any automatism and foreclosure for the revocation or granting of penitentiary benefits, in contrast with the re-educational function of the sentence and the principle of detection of treatment; the strengthening of vocational education and training as central elements of the treatment of minors inmates. All these principles will guide the government's reformative action in the implementation of an efficient and modern prison system. The reform path of this majority and this government continues, supported in a coherent and decisive way by the political force of the People's Area. We have been talking for some time about the length of the process in all the talk shows and in all the conferences, when we point out the days necessary for the definition of a judgment, which penalize our country at an economic level and of international credibility. Therefore, to renew the system of justice of our country, which suffers from chronic ills that we all know well, means to put hand with severity to the reform of the penal code and the reform of procedures, especially to have clear and precise criminal cases, that they are also a support for the same work of the interpreter. This measure opens up to a comprehensive work that will receive a further piece with the draft law on civil trial, currently being examined by the Justice Commission. For all these reasons and for the attention we have received in this debate, after expressing my thanks, we represent to the House our total satisfaction on the continuation of the examination of this measure that we consider one of the most important pieces that this Government has put in place in this legislature. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u17	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, with whom we have worked for a long time on this measure, Mr Chiavaroli, who represented the Government well during this work, we are today examining, simply reading the title of the short note in distribution, the amendments to the penal code and the criminal procedure code and the penitentiary system. I believe that we should focus, at the beginning of a brief reasoning that I would like to make, on what the criminal trial is. You know that our code has undergone a recent and complete reform with the introduction of the accusatory system. We came from the old code, whose system was still that of the code Rocco of 1931, when in 1989 we finally implemented a comprehensive reform of the criminal process by introducing the accusatory system. To define, from the point of view of history, but also legal and political, what is the criminal process in our country, my brief reasoning and my tribute of culture can only go to my great teacher, I think one of the greatest teachers of the law of this country, Franco Cordero. If you read the first page of the historical edition of the famous manual that was then published perhaps now in 50 editions, the definition it gave was really beautiful. What is criminal judgment? A series of acts carried out in a prescribed form and time composes the process. The latter name is recent, while procedure is ancient word and even more judgment that is undoubtedly a name rich in expressive force. The trial is in fact in the middle - Cordero tells us - between the crime and the penalty. The action of punishing would be blind if the judge did not determine the conditions for it. At this point the analysis reveals some singular aspects: first of all the trial is not so much a judgment as it is composed of a multitude of judgments, and then we will return to this reference to the multitude of judgments - of the parties, witnesses, advisers and the judge, the last of which, by reason of the authority of the person who issued it, has a particular effectiveness, but to consider it carefully we discover how it is a rule of conduct, that is, a rule, since the judge when ruling commands. As well as the command comes out of a plot of logical operations regulated by law and here is a tangle of attitudes, rituals, logics, normatives. I think that these few lines, that any student of law in this country can draw from this wonderful manual, are also a right guide for us who have done a great job of trying a correct reform, then of course giving a delegation to the Government, on the criminal process. That is why we are going back to thinking: we have understood that the criminal trial serves to verify whether a person should be punished. Unfortunately, from recent facts and how often they have been narrated by the newspapers, it emerges that the process is not this, but in reality we must be consistent with our rules and know that there is, and is constantly cited, an ancient brocardo that we have all studied: "no poena sine iudicio." On the other hand, unfortunately, we are very often faced with penalties and convictions already written by the headlines when some criminal proceedings are only at the beginning, in the first steps, but on this I will return. This consideration serves to understand that we have done a great job of reform and deepening and this Government certainly, through the eximia and fantastic work of Minister Orlando, is the Executive that is doing more in terms of reform of the process, in particular of the criminal process and of everything that comes out of it. Think of what meaning and what meaning, first of all human, has had the work we have done on the execution of the criminal sentence with the three days of the General States of criminal execution, working within a prison and working precisely on what is then the final outcome that the criminal trial has on people's lives. Also in this reform there is a great deal of attention to the punishment, the execution of the sentence and its reeducational function. We must not forget, in fact, that we are still dealing with a penitentiary system that does not guarantee to the full that the penalty is re-educational and we still have a lot to work on. At this point, with this text we have tried to give efficiency to a service fundamental to the life of our country. In fact, it is clear to all of us, and we see it every day, that the malfunction of the judicial system is one of the largest boulders that weighs on our country and on our growth. It has also been calculated how much such serious malfunction on the GDP, also because some foreign companies decide not to invest in Italy just for the excessive duration of the procedures (in case, of course, of negative situations). Moreover, this situation weighs on our image in Europe with respect to our European partners. I should like to make a brief comment on the subject: what we are about to vote on is a complex, broad measure, which affects a number of institutions mainly procedural, but which is also of substantive law. Of course, it is worth mentioning briefly the establishment of the text on which we worked in the Commission. First of all, we have worked on the extinction of the crime, the remedial conduct and changes to the limits of the sentence for crimes of political-mafia exchange, theft and robbery. Then there is a delegation to the Government for the reform of the procedure regime for certain crimes, for the reordering of certain sectors of the penal code and for the revision of the discipline of the judicial record. We also have amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure on the discipline of the defendant's irreversible inability to take part in the trial, to re-propose prosecution, to communicate the address for service, preliminary investigations and the filing procedure, as well as very important changes in the matter of special rites, preliminary hearing, court instruction, structure of the judgment of merit and simplification of appeals. With regard to the simplification of appeals, we are playing a very important card: we are playing the real ability to influence that great principle established by all the rules on fair trial: a fair trial is right when it is short, it is right when the citizen subject to trial, if condemned, sees his conviction issued quickly and surely, and can atone for the penalty to which he has been condemned with respect for his human rights. So the interloquy - and in my opinion there is also matter on this to go ahead on the second and the third degree, that is on the appeal and appeal for cassation - already gives a sign of where we want to arrive. Probably it will be right to arrive, I say not to complete extinction, but to a partial drying - very narrow - of the grounds for appeal in Cassation and limit even more to the vice of legitimacy except for particular cases, the appeal to Cassation. On this we certainly have the subject to move forward and to move forward well. Finally, the delegation to the Government touches on the reform of the criminal process and the penitentiary system. I have heard a few speeches from other Members, and that is precisely why I would like to point out that we have spoken effectively on some of the forecasts. Think of the increase in sentence for the political-mafia electoral exchange crime, proposed in Article 3 of the bill currently under discussion, which provides for imprisonment from six to twelve years, in a way consistent with the general increase in penalties operated in recent years for the crime of Mafia association referred to in Article 416- bis of the penal code, especially for the forecast referred to in the first paragraph, to which it has been expressly attached for many years. It should also be borne in mind that in 2015 the penalty for the crime of Mafia association increased, with Law No 69 of 27 May 2015, the imprisonment from ten to fifteen years. So this Parliament and this Government do not accept any lessons in terms of repression of crimes related to the mafia and other crime. We have also intervened on the sanctioning framework of the crime of theft at home and at gunpoint, raising the minimum edittale of the prison sentence from one to three years and we have tightened the sanctioning framework relating to the aggravated conducts covered by the third paragraph of Article 624-a. We have also spoken on Article 625 (the following article of the penal code), which lists the aggravating circumstances for which the crime of theft is punished with the penalty of imprisonment from one to six years, closing the sanctioning framework and providing for the penalty of imprisonment from two to six years. This, too, is a concrete and real response to the widespread sense of insecurity, which some people believe to be of impunity, against certain crimes that widen the social alarm. But this is only the concrete answer: woe to foment, woe to support, woe to justify in some way dangerous positions of those who want to do justice alone or of those who invent other mechanisms beyond the judgment and the penal code. So it is right to tighten the penalties, in a wider area of repression of crimes that create social uncertainty. Moving forward, let's go back to the point that I thought was very important, that of simplifying appeals. The appeals will therefore be simplified, the appeal grounds will be more rigorously examined and there will be a deflective effect on appeals in cassation. With the new article 599- bis of the Code of Criminal Procedure we have reinstated the institute of the agreed on the grounds of appeal. Little has been said about this. On the other hand, I believe that it is important to reiterate that the agreement on the grounds of appeal allows the parties to agree on the acceptance, in whole or in part, of the grounds of appeal, with simultaneous renunciation of any other reasons, thus saving, in any case in which the judge decides not to accept the request for an agreement, the possibility of ordering the summons to appear in the debate. You see, then, that never and never our intention was to tie our hands to the magistrate. In the course of the review we carried out in the Justice Commission, however, we introduced some significant limitations. I quote one out of all: with the adoption of amendments by the Democratic Party, we have approved the exclusion from the scope of the agreement between the parties for proceedings under paragraphs 3-a, 3 and 3-c of Article 51 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, for sexual crimes, for sexual crimes committed in harm to children of age and, finally, for proceedings against those who have been declared habitual delinquents. We are talking about hateful, terrible crimes that have a very high social danger, so we felt that we had to subtract from this... [[Recalls of the President]] I need a few more minutes, Mr President, and I will try to shorten it. As I said, we felt that we had to remove all crimes against women from this area. In this regard, let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, President, that in this House the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party are implementing - and there is something to be said - and we would unfortunately not like to do so, we would not want this action to serve - for days and weeks a relay of speeches at the end of the session, in which they recall every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom it has been linked by a loving relationship. We'll continue the relay as long as we have to. Let us remember that ISTAT has provided the numbers of this horror, informing us that in Italy, every 2.2 days, a woman is killed and 46.3 percent of the women killed die at the hands of the partner. The severity of sexual and physical violence has increased and cases of assisted violence are also growing. Little is said about assisted violence, but what is the gravity of the life of a child who is constantly witnessing violence against his mother, abuse, insults, insinuations, to the extreme event of death? That is also why - and I shall be brief, Mr President - we have ruled out any possible agreement on the grounds of appeal for these horrendous crimes. Speaking of these crimes, however, we cannot avoid the important need for a cultural passage, information and education in our country. We continue to witness media justifications of feminicides, on which no one tells the truth; no one says that feminicide is a crime that lurks almost exclusively or only and exclusively in the heads of men. We have a cultural problem in dealing with this type of crime, and this will have to be reiterated in proceedings and penalties. Unfortunately, we are still seeing too many distractions, abusers coming out of prison with great ease and - as the previous speeches have reminded me - there is still a culturally wrong attitude. Femicide is the result of that machismo, of that bullying, of that homophobia, of all those cultural acts tending to the valorization of discrimination rather than to their condemnation. It is necessary, therefore, to intervene with culture in schools, so that education to gender difference, which includes as richness and value all diversity, is soon established. Well this government has done, through our Minister of Education, to say that since October we will begin to deal with gender differences in schools. I shall conclude quickly, Mr President, with a very brief passage on wiretapping, on which I believe we have experienced, in my view, the excess, exploitation and forced use by newspapers and the media of certain events, which are certainly necessary for investigations, but which are being exploited. It was good, therefore, for the Justice Commission to audiate in long sessions precisely the great members of the prosecutors of the Republic of our country (I think of the attorney of Rome and other prosecutors), who gave us the regulation that they have already implemented and gave us the necessary suggestions to ensure that a right instrument such as telephone or environmental interception (or the trojans we have already talked about) is not then used abusively. None of us wants to stop investigative instruments, but it is unthinkable that the exploitation of what Article 191 of our Code of Criminal Procedure defines as unusable evidence to give media evidence and the privacy of people who, if responsible, will be condemned, but must not be so for the use, abuse and exploitation that certain press and certain television make of the instrument of interception. I shall conclude, Mr President, and I would ask you to hand over the full text of my speech in which I have explained my reasoning so that it can be annexed to the shorthand report of the sitting. I believe that this is a first step; we wait to see how the delegation to the Government will be implemented, and I ask that in the same delegation, on the part relating to the penitentiary order - I have little time and I cannot talk about it - the protection of inmates mothers be strengthened. I remind you that children from zero to three years are in prison with mothers and if the mother has no place to serve home imprisonment, the child can stay there for up to six years. It is essential, therefore, that in the delegation to the Government reasons Icam, i.e. the protected residences for inmates mothers with very small children. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the text of your speech, Senator Cirinna. He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, already when I tabled the constitutional question, I drew attention to the reasons why we did not table amendments on many parts of this measure and, this morning, Mr Mineo gave a reason for our behaviour, when he made it clear that there is a clash within the majority between two philosophies that do not emerge in the debate. I would just like to refer to a few basic concepts. When we intervene on the criminal code system, we touch on a penalty system that must respond to rationality; there can be no imbalance between crime and crime, in the determination of the penalty, regardless of the seriousness, the people involved and so on. We have heard Mrs Cirinna call Cordero on the criminal trial, and yet we must go further than Cordero himself says in the pages of his writings, in particular, about what the trial is about. The procedural rules serve to ensure the impartial guarantee of jurisdiction, a function that can only be carried out if the rules of the process are calibrated on the fundamental principles of our Constitutional Charter and our legal order. Certainly, as Senator Mineo said, there is a clash within the majority between those who disregard these fundamental principles of the Constitution and of the order and those who are forced, for reasons of balance of the majority, to adapt to give birth to norms that are liberticide, as I will say shortly. When establishing the rules of the trial, if you want to guarantee the true function of the trial, then we start by saying that the registration in the register of suspects must take place when the prosecutor has the news of crime and, if you want to realize the effective protection and the effective guarantee of rights, you must enter the real name of the suspect. Therefore, the judge, not the press or the people, must be able to assess the correctness of the time of registration in the register of suspects. We have tabled these amendments and they have been discussed. Despite the fact that the Commission has accepted 28 amendments from our Group, on some of the basic issues it has raised. I now come to the subject of the prescription. We have to be aware of two facts. With reference to the first, Mrs Bianconi said that the measure, like all laws, is the result of a compromise or, better, of what, with a high expression, was defined as convergence of opposing interests in order to achieve a legislative product that can take into account all the rights and interests that may exist. However, my colleague says that she has achieved an upside-down compromise. For me it was an impossible rise to imagine pains. Do you realize that with what is written in the provision we find ourselves as a minimum limitation time twelve years in the hypothesis of Article 318? And that one reaches thirty-three years - the years of Christ, an entire life - of the prescription for the hypothesis referred to in article 319-b, paragraph 2, second period. Is that justice? No. Is it right for a corrupt man to remain free for thirty - three years before he is tried and finally condemned? Is it right that for thirty-three years you continue to be in the Assembly of Parliament or in the Municipal, Provincial and Regional Councils? You brought corruption to thirty-three years! Do you realize that? This is crazy. Was a raise justified? No. This is not said by Senator Caliendo, but by the Ministry of Justice with great correctness. The Minister of Justice provided us with the data in this House, when we discussed crimes against public administration last year and when we discussed it in the Commission. The current time of limitation of crimes against public administration does not exceed 2%. In fact, in many Italian judicial offices it is 0 percent. So, was a half increase justified? What's the reason? So far I thought they were executed; instead, Senator Mineo gave me the reason: to take account of the madness proposed by some, you have tried to give an answer in terms of increase because at least in doing so the great majority kept "repeat"; that is the reason: there are no others. When an authoritative exponent of the Italian judiciary intervened these days, he reported what I had already said in this House: to increase the penalties - I repeat once again - and the limitation periods for a hundred years to this part involve statistically an extension of the process. Before these madnesses, bankruptcy was the longest time of prescription. Go see how long the bankruptcy trials lasted compared to the others. We supported the introduction of a privileged lane for crimes against the public administration because it is necessary to identify immediately whether a corrupt person is responsible. If it is such, it must be taken out and condemned, not kept in bainmaria with the possibility of using the trial instrumentally and politically and, therefore, with the denial of the function of guarantee and impartiality of the trial. I heard President Lumia talking about double track and quoting Falcone. I'm sorry, Lumia, don't quote him. He wouldn't do that. After the end of the preliminary investigation, when the judge, the public prosecutor, has to take only the decision whether to file or request referral to trial it has been written that it takes three months for all crimes; that's fine. For Mafia crimes, 15 months? You've finished the investigation, that's all you can do; it takes fifteen months? What if it ends for filing? Do you still have one person hanging for 15 months, when you still don't know if you're going to sue? I am only focusing on assessing the serious aspects of the consequences on citizens' rights and, I add, on the rights of those who will have the least chance of defending themselves. My colleague, Mrs Cirinna, referred to the agreement between the parties in the appeal judgment. I valued this rule in the Commission. I believe it. However, I have also pointed out that there is an indication that the prosecutor of the Republic should give directions to the various substitutes to proceed with the so-called plea settlement. Among the elements to be assessed you have indicated the complexity of the procedure, as if because of the complexity and, therefore, the inability, at that point, of the public ministry to support the complexity, he agrees for a lower penalty than the one that should be granted. Do you realize that this is absurd? I had made a proposal for an amendment to you, to be brought to the House, that the assessment should not take place because of the complexity of the procedure, but because of the function of the penalty. What is the function of the sentence? That is what the assessment of the agreement should be about. I applied this rule when it was in force in our legal system, as a magistrate and as deputy attorney general of the Milan Court of Appeal. All those who have applied it to me have never taken into account the complexity of the procedure, but have assessed the severity of the crime, the function of the penalty: these are the things that should be evaluated. However, let us continue to reason as if everything worked perfectly in our system. I have also heard that this measure will lead to economic growth. Excuse me, if we talk about the civil process, it is another issue; on the criminal process, we prescind from economic growth because of course the financial problems of our country are not conditioned by the criminal system or the type of penalty. Rather, they are conditioned by the credibility of the institution, by the credibility of the State. We have signed various agreements in the Community. I hear many of you always appeal to Europe, to the great sensitivity of Community law, to the judgments of Strasbourg, but when it comes to applying them, you forget about them. Some of you may not remember that seven or eight years ago a rule was passed in this House. It is that rule, which in the texts of Community law is referred to as the "Azzolini Act," which obliges Parliament to assess a report on the state of implementation of the Strasbourg judgments in our country. Do you know how many times this report has been debated by Parliament? Never. I have demanded this year and, thanks to the cooperation of the other members of the Commission, I have obtained that this report be sent to our Commission. The Strasbourg judgments can ascertain that I have been sentenced on the basis of a non-existent crime, so that in our country there are trials against the fundamental principle " nullum crime sine lege" or violating the fundamental rights of the trial. One of these concerns the default judgment, with regard precisely to the default, so that the appeal must now be repeated. And also in this provision it is specifically provided that the examination of the inquiry must be renewed, if it was based on testimonial evidence. We are considering reform of the process in general, and I then wonder why we do not take this opportunity to remedy the problem of the inexecution of the Strasbourg judgments. As you know, just a few months ago it was the 70th anniversary of the birth of the Italian Republic, and on that occasion I repeated the same concepts, in the presence of the President of the Republic and the Minister. And you say that my proposal is inadmissible and improbable because it was not part of the text proposed by the House, or it was not part of the bill proposed here. But do you realize what you're saying? What is your idea of guaranteeing the right? What is your idea of guaranteeing the weakest? What is your idea of respect for Community law? I hear Senator Lumia and other colleagues talking about Europe and Community law every day. And then what? Shame! When it comes to applying one of the fundamental rules of Community law, namely respect for the judgments of Strasbourg, I am told that my proposal is inadmissible in this measure. Do you realize that? We're talking about a criminal trial here! You realize that a judge has to rule that he cannot apply the Strasbourg judgment because there is no rule! I do not know whether you will trust me or whether you will say that my proposal is improbable, but I will shout: shame! At the moment when we do not pose these problems, in fact, we see the process as a weapon against the opponent, against the one who has wronged. I've been a prosecutor for years, and I've never hated defendants against whom I've even been asking for life. Respect is always necessary, even of those who are condemned, because at the heart of our action, at the center of our legal system, there is the person, with his dignity. So, dear Senator Buccarella, you cannot say that we must be able to know the content of any calls that concern the privacy of a politician who is under trial. We're not interested in those phone calls, if they're not about the trial and if they're not about the crime. The itch of knowing the kind of story that appears in the newspapers that has nothing to do with the process is an attitude that we must all be ashamed of; and we will also have to be ashamed of using what the newspapers report. And I'm going to conclude. I wonder how we can think of a different treatment for crimes against the public administration. Senator Mineo, in his reasoning at last contradicted himself, because there is that imbalance, that irrationality that is not justified not only for the thirty-three years, but because there is no prescription of those crimes. Since 2005, thanks to the law Cirielli, the prescriptions have halved: according to data not mine, but of the Ministry of Justice (which I invite you to read on the website of the Ministry), year by year in our country the prescriptions have decreased and last year they have reached half. Of them, which are 140,000 processes, 76,000 concern preliminary investigations, so it is not about the process, on which you do not intervene, because there is no extension on that stage. Do you realize that you have laid down crazy rules such as the nonsense of the thirty-three years I mentioned earlier? It is useless, but you will never be able to explain it: I asked the rapporteurs and I also reread their reports. I wonder what is meant by Article 8 (b), second sentence, when it is said: The suspension periods referred to in the second subparagraph shall be taken into account for the purpose of determining the time necessary to prescribe them. These are the famous one-year and six-month suspensions after the first-degree judgment and after the appeal judgment. Senator Cucca in his wonderful relationship says they have to be counted, but what does that mean? If, hypothetically, I'm at the appeal process and it's been eight years and ten months, do I have to count the suspension? If I have to do so and then say something about it, this period had to be removed, because it is not necessary: if it is worth the suspension, it is the same as the sentences. If I do not have to take this into account, I have shortened the time limit compared to those provided for others with the suspension. I asked you to make a point. If you want to write that you don't count the term suspension, clarify it because you also need to consider the interpretative doubt. Do not forget that when I asked you to clarify the assessments on the forgery in the budget because otherwise the interpretative doubt would have resulted in negative consequences, it took a decision of the Chambers of the Court of Cassation for that conflict of case law which had been created. Do we want to establish another conflict of case law on the basis of the prescription? I shall conclude, Mr President, by wishing, if there is no confidence, that the rapporteurs, or rather the majority, will take note of certain distortions and correct them. We have not tabled any amendments on those parts of which I have spoken in order to give you the responsibility. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I heard this last speech, I was reminded of the law on the heterogenesis of the ends: to hear Senator Caliendo, in fact, the Cirielli law, made to protect the strongest, has also produced positive effects, but it remains a law that wanted to protect the strongest and, in contradiction to the concern that has been so declaimed, also as an accusation against the measure in question, not to protect the weakest. The debate has also offered other pages of so-called "benaltism": it is something else that needs to be done; it is something else that needs to be resolved. Without ever indicating what this would be much more. The debate also led to doses of "disfactism" essentially focused on the subject of prescription and interceptions, as if the measure under consideration were reduced to this and its scope was all concentrated there. It has already been said, but I would like to stress once again that the scope of the measure does not end in the two issues mentioned earlier. The bill, in fact, has a much wider scope: from the tightening of penalties for thefts, robbery and political-mafia electoral exchange, to the extinction of the crime for remedial conduct (which is, I believe, a measure of great legal civilization); from the changes related to the conditions of improbability for crimes with criminal penalties and prisons not exceeding four years (except for crimes against the property and for the crime provided for in Article 610 of the Criminal Code), to the changes related to the criminal record; not to mention the changes concerning preliminary investigations, the filing order, the appeal and the appeal in Cassation and the termination of the judge, institute to guarantee the right of defence. I believe that it is very important and that the reform of the judicial system deserves further consideration and attention. I am thinking of all the rules on alternative measures: the revision of the conditions of access, the scientific observation of the personality of the deed, the greater effectiveness of controls, the elimination of automatisms hindering the identification of the reeducational treatment and the differentiation of the penitentiary paths, the measures of remedial justice as fundamental elements of the path of social recovery, the increase of the form of paid work, the forms of volunteering of the prisoner and the reintegration of the condemned, the valorization of the right to affectivity, the integration of foreign prisoners, the empowerment of prisoners and the freedom of choice. These are all criteria of delegation that demonstrate how decisively attention is placed, and - I hope - also innovative (the legislative decree will tell us this), on the re-education of the sentence and the attachment of the period of punishment to that of social reintegration. It is a path that must not have a solution of continuity, but must be unitary. In fact, if there is no unity, there is no improvement in personality and projection beyond prison, and you risk bringing the prisoner, at the time of the end of his detention, to become a person who no longer has motivation, ability and strength to reintegrate into society. I believe that no less important are the measures for reforming the prison system concerning minors. I am referring to the emphasis on the need to pay close attention to socialization, empowerment, promotion and growth of the person. There is the attention to extend measures on minors also to young adults, so that the formal transition from the minor to the adult does not lead to the abandonment of treatment and a cure that, for the young adult, cannot fail to have a solution of continuity with those had until the day before. The extension of alternative measures with the extension of the forms of trust in social services and semi-freedom: all this is strongly part of the perspective of re-education, of the engagement with the society of tomorrow, of the after-penalty. I would also like to add that measure which seems to me to be fair: the extension also to mothers subject to precautionary measures of the right to the alternative measure in order to be able to breast-feed and treat children of younger age. These are not marginal interventions. I think that all this, in the logic of Article 27 of the Constitution, introduces principles that are suitable to strengthen, when not to introduce, instruments and conditions of true reeducation in prodromic function. We now come to the two issues that are most closely addressed to the debate, and in the first place to the interceptions. There is a cry for gag, violation of the right of news and freedom of expression: anyone who wants the police state or a model of state contrary to the foundations of the liberal and democratic state can support this; but those who are guarantors and not legalists cannot but reject such accusations. In fact, with these measures the use of judicial interceptions is perimeter, which, precisely because such, can only be used for the purposes of justice. To be even clearer, it prevents the practice, unworthy of a rule of law, of the media process and of the extrajudicial process for facts not constituting criminal offences, but established in the course of criminal investigations. It prevents the consolidation of a media-juridical circuit, I believe involuntary for much part, that outside of the guarantees of the context feeds the hunt for witches. The rights of persons, those of Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution, always come first and their protection does not entail discounts on the responsibilities and punishment of wrongdoing, but prevents, it must prevent, abuse of all kinds and of all kinds. Well, what does the delegation decide on interceptions? With regard to Article 15 of the Constitution, i.e. the subject of the secrecy of correspondence, it establishes the guarantee of the confidentiality of the defender-assistant talks. If anyone has doubts about the constitutionality of this measure, please read the second paragraph of Article 24 of the Constitution, i.e. the inviolable right of defence. The delegation on wiretapping still establishes the protection of persons occasionally intercepted. Is that a mistake or a gag? I would just like to mention Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution, the inviolable rights of the person, who are more full than ever for those who are not in the situation of having criminal investigations. A pm obligation is still established to ensure the confidentiality of acts containing unusable records or communications or containing sensitive data or data that are not relevant to the offences for which they are committed or for others. Is this rule against justice? I believe that it is in line with the sense of justice in the fullest way. As for the prohibition on the summary transcription of interceptions, why contest a measure of this nature? The summary transcription is not the notary representation of what the interception has allowed to ascertain, but it is an interpretation of the interception. Is it contrary to the requirements of justice to prohibit summary transcription, i.e. an interpretation of the transcription data? The evidence, as a general principle, is subject to the judge's only appreciation. So what? The crime for the publication of audiovisual and fraudulent recordings intended solely for the purpose of harming the reputation or image of others is foreseen. Is this a limit to freedom of expression or is this a protection of people's rights? I would like the tragic events that we have had to witness these days to remind us of how sacrosanct even a standard of this nature is. To respond also to a remark that has been made, I personally believe that this is a timely delegation and that it has principles that are already precepts and that therefore, from this point of view, it really has, in a more tangible way than other delegations that we have voted on, the characteristics of the delegation as well as constitutionally defined. With these rules there is no gag, no limit to the judicial function, which must be translated, finalized and limited to iurisdictio. But there is never the clearest responsibility in the use of wiretapping. We come to the prescription: the prescription is a necessary provision for the certainty of the law, of the punishment and of the rights of the person subjected to trial, rights that are not cancelled by a referral to trial or by a guarantee notice. Those who are wrong must be called to answer, but they cannot be kept under iudice for times indefinite. The constitutional principle of the reasonable duration of the trial is sufficient to give an answer to the judicial visions or to the police state or to an eternal condition of investigation. The limitation, moreover, is a measure, in terms of general theory, to protect the taxable person of a relationship in order to avoid the abuse of the right represented by the non-exercise of the same in order to keep the taxable person in check. The prescription cannot cover the inefficiencies of the judicial machinery. This can justify a measure, such as today's one, only because it is linked, if linked, to a plan of reorganization and reform of the times of justice. A problem that calls to full responsibility the judiciary, in addition to the other subjects of the system, because delays in some cases unworthy of a civil country are not a problem and a fault only of the other actors of the justice, the state or the legislator. Delays also call on the magistrates themselves. This is demonstrated by the cases where enlightened Presidents have eliminated arrears and reduced the terms of the processes without extraordinary rules and working on the reorganization of offices and working times. In a more comprehensive and organic framework, of course, I continue to think that the legal accountability of judges on the time of judgment does not harm either autonomy or independence, but rather constitutes an application of the reasonable duration of the trial. I hope that there will be concrete signs on this level, convinced that different measures, such as the limits of the right of action, although now necessary as emergency measures, will have no positive effects in the long term if they are not accompanied and exceeded by standards of the type indicated. Having said that, as regards the changes to the prescription, I would like to point out that there is perhaps someone who thinks that providing for sexual and pornographic offences - Article 392, paragraph 1-a - committed against minors that the beginning of the prescription from the day of the eighteen years of the victim is an unfair measure? Is it really believed that the increase in the limits of the prescription, from a quarter to a half, is so decisive? The eighteen months of suspension between the first and the second and the eighteen months between the second and the final judgment remain. They are a strong measure, not desirable but understandable for the state of justice. Exactly. For the state of justice that, despite the efforts of the Government and Minister Orlando, remains a problem and a challenge that this Government still has the time and strength to face. As a citizen, I hope this will happen. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u22	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u25	CUCCA, rapporteur. Mr President, we have certainly seen a very complex debate. I would like to thank all my colleagues who have spoken, also in view of the calm tones that almost everyone has used. There have been fairly complex ideas. The arguments are delicate and, in some ways, complicated. I therefore believe that there is a need for better reflection on the points raised by the debate. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to allow replies to be made at the next sitting, so that we can have time to come up with a proposal that can offer an even more shared solution than what has been achieved in the Commission. Of course, I am referring to next Tuesday's sitting, because this afternoon's sitting is devoted to acts of inspection union. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there are no comments, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u26	I would like to say that the Conference of Leaders will be convened at 3 p.m. on Tuesday to define the timetable for the next few weeks. At the moment, the agenda for the sitting of Tuesday 27 September, scheduled for 4.30 p.m., provides for the President's announcement of the agenda. Today, in fact, we have exhausted our calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u28	He had asked Senator Maurizio Romani to speak before you, but he is not present in the Chamber, so he has the right to speak, Senator Bencini.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u29	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Rome has about 2,864,000 inhabitants. The number of persons entitled to vote is 2,363,776. At the last election, 1,347,352 citizens voted. At the ballot, the mayor Raggi obtained 67.5% of the votes on 1,186,615 voters, i.e. 50.2 percent of those entitled. It has totaled about 800,000 votes, i.e. 33 percent of the total number entitled to vote in Rome. The percentage falls to 30% of Roman citizens if they consider themselves to be not entitled, i.e. citizens under the age of 18. Obviously, democratically, the elected mayor, together with her advisors, has the burden and honour, also through her unfinished Junta of Government, to govern Rome, claiming to himself the responsibility for the decisions taken, as the much-discussed news of yesterday not having the city of Rome run for seat for the Olympics. There is a political group whose members always fill their mouths, in addition to filling the social and media, of saying that they are honest and transparent and that the choices made are the result of a participatory democracy; well today, we of the Italia Group of values, we ask and ask the mayor whether an effective urban evaluation of the case has been made by the city councilor, an assessment that detects whether Rome eternal, imperial, Olympic city, is able to support and endure such an event. The motivation given to justify the "no" - and we in Italy of the Values think the opposite, of course - is reduced to two issues. First of all, the Olympic Games would create more debt: it would be appropriate to make a precise assessment by the Councillor of the budget, which was not received. Secondly, the phenomena of practical evil and corruption could multiply during the work of adapting the accommodation facilities involved in the Olympic Games. Now, a governing force has the burden of putting in place all those good practices and controls that prevent evil and has no right to escape from making investments that, if well managed, can set in motion a virtuous circle for the benefit of the city and the nation. The point is to be able to manage and govern the processes put in place. This is possible if those who govern have the ability to know: know how to do, know how to be, know how to become. It is not enough to proclaim oneself honest. Honesty rhymes with ability, but it doesn't mean being. Government capacity is demonstrated through actions and challenges, even difficult, such as the Olympic Games. If you have the skills, you manage to take on great burdens, proving to be able to do, remaining honest and operating in legality. Having given up the Olympics to satisfy a cricket in the head suggests a lack of participatory democracy, so flagrant and little perorade: a lack of democratically shared decisions. But above all, he suggests that those who lead the Eternal City do not have full confidence in what it means to rule Rome. We in Italy of the Values support the reasons of Malagò and also argue that it was necessary to involve the Roman citizens, consulting them on the decision to make towards the Olympic event. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Maurizio Romani, I see you are present; I called you earlier, but you were not present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-684.ana.u30	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.07 a.m.
