ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u4	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1328-B, approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government and the examination of the articles took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u11	Tarquinio (CoR). Madam President, Vice Minister, frankly, I am still somewhat perplexed by the Vice Minister's lack of response to the problem of craft breweries, to an article imposed on the House, and it is not clear who, not wanted by any of the organizations or companies that produce beer (in fact, with their opposition, given the difficulty of defining the concept of craft brewery). It is a suspicious article that seems to hide something unserious, as unfortunately happens often in our country. There was no verse and it was decided not to repeal this mysterious article. Of course, I am amazed and surprised, because this connects to everything we live in general. I can appreciate the efforts made by the Vice Minister and the Commission to try to do their best than the European delegation regulations, but we must admit that we are always standing by the stakes: we do not face the big issues and we continue to lose billions of euros on the fake made in Italy, as Coldiretti denounces the Expo in Milan. Nothing is done: it is said that controls are carried out, but they are not done at all. And what's worse is that the forgery of Made in Italy lies in all sectors, in the food sector above all, mainly not in poor countries, but in countries like the United States and Australia, that is, rich countries, which is even more serious. This brings us back to a basic problem, safety labelling, which I have been talking about for a long time, for about a year and a half, at every question time sitting in the field of agriculture or during the debate on some legislation on agriculture. But there are no answers, knowing well the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture that only with safety labelling can we put an end to the fake made in Italy. Manufacturers and manufacturers, both ours and abroad, will no longer be able to cheat, since the safety label made by the State Poligrafico provides that you have purchased so much and you can transform so much. There is never an answer and we keep silent on this subject that so much damage causes and so many pockets enriches, Italian or not, and that is the source of a tax evasion not indifferent. Honestly, this is something that I think is disturbing and incredible, considering that it would not cost the state any money. Labelling should be done by the State Polygraph Institute and Mint, which is 100% State owned, and would cost very little to the same companies, but I understand that I absolutely do not agree. And this also applies to extra virgin olive oil. Among the same olive growers or oil producers there are those who complain about Tunisian oil, but then use it and make it become made in Italy. It is a practice that would not be put into practice if there were safety labelling. And the same goes for sauces, cold cuts, for every food: it is the real data. But nothing to do, there is no answer, although such an operation would lead to employment within a state industry. It would bring wealth to the state's coffers and would make it clear, first of all, to the true victim of all this, the consumer, who absolutely does not know what he eats. The situation of the wheat we live in Puglia is also terrible. The price of wheat has fallen to absurd levels. Two quintals of wheat cost less than a pizza. It is absurd for the producers themselves, and this is because wheat is bought everywhere (Mexico, the United States and Ukraine) without controls. But then the packets of pasta carry the label made in Italy. It is all a set of important and decisive issues that could mean so much. But there is no answer here, and that always leads me to say that such a situation leaves me appalled. That's the real thing. I could understand if there were enormous difficulties, but I come to understand that there is something stronger than all of us outside the Palace and the Ministry and - let me tell you - even within the Ministry itself. Are there bureaucratic resistances? What are they and why? Why don't we face confrontation for once? And instead, I'm being asked what I'm saying. And then there's also the comparison with the others. This is a serious problem. Compared to everything we say and do, but what are we talking about? Are we kidding ourselves? We take small steps forward, but with respect to the big issue we are not there. We don't have a solution. We do not protect consumers, we do not protect the Italian State, we do not protect the Italian state industries. And it would take so little. It's not the end of the world. Does that mean fighting against powerful worlds? But let's do it. Let us say that in clear terms. It is absolutely not possible to go on in this way. In this sector we suffer from everything and, despite everything, Italian agriculture grows, as you said, Deputy Minister. This also applies to Apulian agriculture. But let's ask ourselves why? We must thank the heroic producers. But if we did everything I said, how much would agriculture grow? Another issue is xylella, which seems to be a problem concerning only Puglia, but instead it is national. And while the Puglia region is silent, while the Government is silent, a Community infringement will soon be triggered, which will result in the blocking of a number of resources for farmers: from the regional development plan to the CAP of individual farmers. We know that very well. Yet it seems that the solution must come down from heaven. That's crazy! If the infringement procedure is triggered, nurseries and other realities will be blocked, with enormous damage. And you know that, even as far as the regional development plan is concerned, it is an attack on the regions. There are 20 billion from the European Union. But what happens? The inefficiencies of the regions are limitless, delays are limitless and what is the problem? However, use these funds. And they're used badly, they don't produce anything, and maybe they do someone's pockets a favor, which shouldn't be filled at all. This is the real fact on which there should be real and strong action by the Government, if we want to bring a turning point to our great agriculture, which has suffered so much and which continues to suffer even from Europe. The measures are - by chance - often aimed at our products. See the increase in VAT on basil, from 4 to 10 percent. There are very strange phenomena, while the French are getting fatter and their products are never touched, not even by the VAT rate. That is the reality. And the government is asked to be stronger and tougher in defending what is ours, and not for a claim, but because it is right that it is so. If we wage war on Italian products and their quality, we must defend them, as I said before. And the way to defend them is to produce additional wealth and, above all, guarantee consumers. There are many other reasons, but precisely for those that have been set out, and for the non-answers, we in the Conservative and Reformist Group are abstaining from voting on this measure, and we are doing so with regret, because we are aware of so many issues. We have always voted in favour, even in recent years. Our colleagues in the House voted in favour, but they are obviously very ill-informed or are not following this issue closely. Therefore, my speech, on behalf of the Conservatives and Reformists, serves first of all to shock you, too, Mr Deputy Minister, to whom I recognize intellectual honesty without limits, hoping that you will be active in relation to the difficulties outlined. In us he will always find a side interested only in the problems of consumers, Italian agriculture and Italians in general, ready to do any kind of battle even against the so-called powerful. I shall then conclude by confirming the abstention vote. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u14	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, Mr Olivero, you are once again to represent your Minister who is not present. But to remember the Minister's face, we did a representation of it. (Senator Candiani shows the press of a photo of Minister Martina). I know, you're gonna tell me it's black and white, it didn't come out much, but - believe me - it's not the printer's fault. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u15	Please.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u16	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I'd like to speak to the Minister. Unfortunately, we will have to speak with his printed image instead. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Government, however, Senator Candiani, is represented by the Deputy Minister. So, you don't have to show other people's photographs. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the government is well represented, but the problem is that we must remember who wants to represent agriculture through photographs, because it never comes here. And that's an objective fact, President. In two days the Minister did not want to come to the Chamber to listen to the various speeches and to take note of the conditions of agriculture that we have listed, each with its own characteristics and sensitivity, but in a useful way. I am convinced that those who represent agriculture today could have drawn the right signals from this debate. The problem is that we have to limit ourselves to his image. Senator Arrigoni, touch them. (Senator Candiani passes the press of Minister Martina's photo to Senator Arrigoni). Mr President, we said that we would wait for the government's action on the amendments. The amendments were essentially rejected, and not because they were not valid on the substance - as stated by the Deputy Minister himself, clearly embarrassed to give some contrary opinion - but because the measure was drawn for long, for political inability and not for the political will of the Government to give a conclusive response on the link with agriculture, which - I remember again - was presented on 21 February 2014. And I open an inscription to invite the Minister to have more modesty before going on television to declare that this is the example of the malfunction of the perfect bicameralism. This, however, is the perfect example of how the Renzi Government, depending on the convenience, accelerates on some measures and closes them in a few weeks. I still remember that today, with the Constitution in force, the Government makes a decree-law in sixty days. In sixty days it is published and valid as a law. But if the government wants to use measures like this, pulling them long, so that at each election you can go to the farmers by showing that you are taking a step forward, procrastinating the possible solution to the problems, I repeat once again, dear Minister of paper: be careful, you can deceive everyone once, someone sometimes, but you cannot deceive all people forever. And the farmers, dear paper minister, have now realized that agriculture is not an important and priority topic in government policies. What made them realize that? They have understood this - for example - from the fact that in the European Commission, or rather in Brussels, you do not go there, absent Minister, to negotiate with other European partners or with the Government of Brussels on the defence of Made in Italy. Mr Calenda goes there to talk about CETA - I remember that it is the agreement between the European Union and Canada, like TTIP is, between the European Union and the United States - that they would not even want to let the national parliaments through, in order to finally give producers the illusion of a larger market, but actually creating the perfect and ideal conditions to crush the real made in Italy, giving the possibility to those who counterfeit on Made in Italy to enter our market with bad products. You want to defend Made in Italy at this point! We have therefore resigned ourselves to this modest link with agriculture. I have already pointed out that our vote will not be in favour, but it will not be against either. It cannot be opposed because there are important and useful passages, although in a terrible delay, for which you have responsibility. But it certainly cannot be in favour, because we do not want to endorse your way of doing farming for the sole electoral purpose, and we do not want to actually forget the problems. It is easy to go on the web, Madam President, to find, in addition to the website of the Minister of Agriculture, well-painted and precise, with kneeling interviews of questions and answers in which everything goes well and works, even of the comments of farmers, such as: "Martina is no longer the Minister of Agriculture" of 14 September 2015, when Expo was about to end. Farmers are beginning to realize that the Minister of Agriculture is more of a ribbon cutter, a showman from Expo, than a minister defending agriculture. And this, unfortunately, is not good for our agriculture and our producers. We are not happy to read the criticism that comes to the Minister, because we understand that it hurts not the Government, but the country and the producers. On the other hand, we would like to see concrete answers which can provide solutions to those farmers and producers who get up in the morning and go to bed in the evening and, after a day's work, know that a calf is worth a kilogram of manure. That's what we're talking about. I'll add a detail. Once again, Madam President, if you go to read the press review of Italian newspapers, you will not find a single word about CETA; if you go to read the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" instead of other German or French newspapers, you will see the negotiations on CETA on the front page. In Italy, however, the news has totally disappeared, hidden between the sport and the pink chronicle, or there is nothing at all. This is not correct, because it means hiding from the knowledge of citizens negotiations that are intimately connected with the defence of Made in Italy. The CAP was another commitment and we saw what happened with the payments. Over the past few hours, AGEA's Director-General has resigned. But must we get to these things, with our producers waiting and being exposed for millions of euros, even having to pay 1% sanctions because they are late in submitting documentation, and not because of them but because of AGEA? I repeat: just go and look at the sites. I got strong and entered the institutional site of Minister Martina. In a kneeling interview that was given to him a few months ago, on May 23, 2016, Martina's paper minister, asked: "Pavia, province risicola." At what point is the issue of the safeguard clause that should curb the import of rice indicates from South-East Asia? We have already presented for weeks the dossier which analyses the impact of imports and the damage to our rice - it has not yet said anything - we have confirmed this to the technicians of the Commission that in recent days they have been in Castello d'Agogna. We now expect more from the EU Commission, because the answers we have received so far are unsatisfactory. I imagine that at the reading of this comment by the Minister in Brussels they are trembling with fear and still tremble like leaves. They can no longer stand the terror that Minister Martina asks for a more convincing answer [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group).]] But I ask the Government for convincing and strong action, because, after the history of rice imported from the Far East to the detriment of our producers, we have full pockets of resolutions, agendas and motions approved in Parliament, which are not implemented in reality. National agriculture, agriculture of the country, which in this case also corresponds to the ecosystem of the territory, is being defended. In fact, going on like this, the farmers of the Po Valley will see their rice fields dry, we will sow soy and products at a lower cost of production, which will still have a minimum market, and we will have lost one of the characteristic and qualifying elements of Padana agriculture. If we move further south, let's see what happened to xylella and all the unfulfilled investment promises on research funds. Madam President, I do not see Minister Martina from the photographs I have. Evidently he arrived late compared to the photographer, because there was a nice parterre in the Hall of the Five Hundred in Florence, when it was presented, at the inauguration of the 262 academic year of the Accademia dei Georgofili, the report titled: It is a serious mistake to demolish agriculture. Within it, in a very simple way and in a few pages (22), we wonder why you no longer invest in research and why our agriculture has no research tools available. On these things we must make a difference in a bill linked to the financial maneuver. Finally, but not because of the seriousness of the problem, a serious stance on the embargo against Russia is still unresolved. We can speak of related agriculture, of interventions to mitigate the costs for agriculture, taxes, attached and connected. For God's sake, quit with the history of the IMU, because first you put the taxes, then you take them off, and then you also want to take the credit for taking them off after creating damage to farmers and other citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You create problems and then you take credit for taking them away? Give me a break! In conclusion, Madam President, I repeat that on these points we want to see a strong government acting with specific actions. In the European Union, you have Russia lifted its sanctions, because our agriculture has a serious damage to it. On this are measured the quality, the action and the strength of the government, and not taking and putting a Minister on the printed paper. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u19	Mr Ruvolo (AL-A). Madam President, I would like to declare the AL-A Group's abstention vote and explain the reasons for this approach. I have concluded my general discussion with the following appeal: we want to participate responsibly in the future of Italian agriculture. We have tabled a number of amendments, some of which have been withdrawn so as not to hinder the work that has been done. On certain, however, we had expectations from the government. I refer to Article 9, which authorizes professional professional organisations to consult the list of allowances and personal data, excluding the public service and the municipality (as provided for in amendment 9.1 tabled by me), to facilitate who knows what interest on expropriation matter of almost exclusive competence - not to say exclusive - of the municipalities. I also appreciated the efforts of the Deputy Minister with his invitation to turn it into an agenda, but once again I repeat that an agenda is not denied to anyone, Mr. Government representative. Above all we had expectations regarding the reorganization and rationalization of the agencies supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Forestry, but none of this has happened. I have had the opportunity to read in this House the amendment concerning the bodies supervised by the Ministry. As I said in the preamble, four high-ranking constitutionalists were needed and I do not know how many other legal experts could interpret it. And, instead, you have entrusted him to a few tricks to cheat even more things that could be simple. You didn't listen to us. Mr Vice-Minister, it is true that this is not an omnibus measure, and we know that perfectly well. However, after two and a half years of being on the shuttle, you suddenly woke up by not accepting any very responsible amendments that could be helpful, such as those I mentioned, but there are still others. I am thinking, for example, of the suppression during the reading in the House of the crime of food counterfeiting. You took it off. Actually, you still don't understand why. You have canceled all the articles relating to fisheries and aquaculture. We tried everything we could to work with the government, but nothing. We just had to move on. You said that farmers will benefit from this measure because it is something amazing and extraordinary. Those who have not noticed, however, are precisely farmers and farmers. This also applies to the previous measures. The direction wasn't the right one. It is necessary to understand what new model of agriculture wants to adopt the Government in order to confront itself in the world and with all the other countries with which we are in competition. You talked about the young people. The subject has been mentioned by many speakers. Agriculture is the only sector that pulls and produces positive facts for the economy of our country. You have boasted about it, but I am not as convinced as you are, because agriculture needs very much specific and rational interventions and not overwhelmed, as has happened so many times in this legislature. I'd like to talk about young people. Mr. Deputy Minister, I'd like to be heard. I know that you are very attentive and sensitive, and I acknowledge this, beyond the presence or not in the Chamber of Mr Martina. I would have liked to have seen it at least for once during the discussion of agricultural matters. It means we're gonna take Senator Candiani's photos and put them on the bedside table. Who are the young farmers of today? I'd like you to check it out. Most of them are young adults, possessing law degrees and engineers; they are good professionals who married agriculture. These are the young people who face the agricultural business world. If I think, for a moment, of my reality - I am speaking of my Sicily - I realize the many efforts that support these young people, who, however, are not supported. Mr Vice-Minister and Madam President, I would just like to mention one: the facilitated transcription of transfers for business combinations also for professional agricultural entrepreneurs, even if they are not members of the INPS, but employees. To these young people, perhaps enrolled in the register of lawyers or engineers, who have decided to support themselves through the agricultural system, do we want to give the opportunity to truly become entrepreneurs? There was a rule, no longer in force, that allowed young farmers, for the combinations of farms, not to pay the so-called transfer tax. A preferential transfer fee was granted, which has disappeared today. But do you still want to rinse your mouth about young farmers? Why don't you give answers to that? I'm talking about concrete things and not about the dream book. There, therefore, it is necessary to have an impact, if we are to help young agricultural entrepreneurship, which is also professionalized from a school point of view. It is a great resource for the country, a great opportunity. Let's make these young men comfortable! For them agriculture is not a fallback: for many it has been, but today it is their profession. However, we must help them in concrete terms, including through soft loans and by offering what is needed by the world of agriculture. I shall conclude here my speech, Madam President and Vice-Minister. This is a great missed opportunity. Let's hope there's some more. I find it hard to believe, but hope is the last to die. I hope so. [[Applause from Senators Formigoni and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u22	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the merit of this measure is that it has dealt with agriculture in its complexity. Agriculture - especially mountain agriculture - is multifunctional and not only produces food, but is also important for environmental protection and tourism, especially in our areas. Many of my fellow Members, in the general debate, have highlighted the attention to emerging sectors, starting with that of hops and craft beers, to which I would like to add that of animal husbandry and horse riding. Mr. Deputy Minister, it is good to reorganize, but be careful: it must not be understood as centralization. I trust the promises made in the beef and veal sector and, in particular, with regard to the associations of small mountain farmers - they are partly endangered breeds, but they are an important component of biodiversity - so that they and their breeders' associations will also have the attention, respect and help of the Ministry in the future and will not be sank, because they are not of national importance. For our territories these small farmers carry out a conservation activity, of great protection for the environment and of soil care. In any case, positive steps are foreseen for the enhancement of the brand and for competitiveness. However, this is a measure that once again confers a very strong delegation to the Government on a whole series of crucial points. Delegation is an expression of trust and good will on the part of the Chambers about the ability of the Government to put in place rules that can do the interests of the sector. The precedents are not always comforting. Too many times, in various areas, delegated laws have created new bureaucracy for companies, which today would need a strong simplification of legislation. This is particularly true of small and very small farms, which are the heart of mountain farming. In recent years, too many times I have seen that we do not fully understand, especially at ministerial level, the function of small farmers, which is not only economic, but also - I would like to reiterate - the social holding of mountainous and disadvantaged territories, the protection of biodiversity, the prevention of hydrogeological failure and landscape attraction. I am thinking - for example - of the rule contained in the latest bill of stability, fortunately eliminated, which tried to introduce a series of tax management obligations for companies with less than 7,000 euros of annual turnover. A company that makes less than 7,000 euros a year is a company that, in fact, does not produce economic profits, but does an activity of garrison of the territory, also from the environmental and social point of view, and many small farmers create diversity of both products and services. The big theme, then, is how to help these companies, how to stimulate the birth of producer consortia; how, that is, to value a system that gives life to the most interesting qualitative productions and that also represents a formidable vehicle from the point of view of the brand and tourism. We must safeguard the small peasant property: their activity is the foundation of an agriculture practiced with enthusiasm. There is still great scope for simplifying and reducing that bureaucracy which, too often, is an obstacle to the growth and development of the sector. If I think that Article 34 of this measure, which concerns beekeeping - and I stress the very important role of the bee for the cycle of nature - provides that every person who owns even a hive must provide communication to the national beekeeping registry, with penalties provided for from 1,000 to 4,000 euros in case of failure to report, I very much hope, Mr Deputy Minister, that the Government will find the courage and good sense to simplify and lighten this provision with the implementing decree. Rather than making bureaucracy worse, in this case one should think - as is the case in other parts of Europe too - of exploiting and supporting amateur beekeeping through exemption from tax constraints and obligations up to a certain number of hives, for example in Austria it is set at 50. But, remaining in our reality, the limit of 20 would be sufficient for us. There are also still important margins for the enhancement of product quality. Agriculture cannot pursue the logic of the lowest price, but that of the highest quality of our products and excellent productions (and we have plenty of them). In this context, a very important contribution can be made by the younger generations. The measure contains a strong impetus in this regard, which I very much welcome: it is a step in the right direction; others follow. Young people can bring skills in the campaigns, not only of a technical nature, which are able to value our agriculture also for its cultural and social implications, with the affirmation of values linked to the quality of life. Europe, Mr. Deputy Minister, is a matter of its own. Our farmers expect less bureaucracy and more transparency from Europe. There is concern about TTIP. The latest research estimates that - if the terms of the agreement were not to change - the contribution of agriculture to European GDP would lead to a decrease of 0.8%, resulting in job losses, while the US would increase by 1.9 percent: a real restructuring of the market, which would also affect land management and the characteristics of the European and Italian agricultural fabric. We have to go very careful! Finally, there is the question of milk quotas. The blow to our farmers was very strong. For this reason, the work that the Minister and his Ministry are doing is very positive, trying to give support also through aid and direct initiatives in order not to shut down other stables to farmers, especially in mountain and disadvantaged areas, where the cost of production today far exceeds the revenue per litre. These are just a few examples to give an idea of the vastness and complexity of issues that cannot be solved by a single measure, requiring a strong initiative for agriculture to be put at the heart of the political and institutional agenda. Agriculture is in fact strategic for the overall relaunch of the country and has enormous potential that we must know how to exploit. My hope is, therefore, that the government, starting with the matters in which delegation was granted, will produce simple rules that meet the specific needs of the sector, simplify the bureaucracy and protect especially the small producers. Mr Vice-Minister, we see the glass half full and not half empty and, with the same confidence that I have expressed in the premises, I declare the Group's support for the Autonomous-PSI-MAIE Group, thanking and congratulating you for your assiduous presence both in the Commission and in this House and for your excellent work. I would also like to thank the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production and its chairman, Senator Formigoni, for the work he has done. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Mixed and Senator Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u25	WRITER IN TOR (AP) (NCD-UDC). Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are about to adopt is an important part of a process of great attention which the Government and this Parliament have devoted to agriculture. In declaring the vote in favour of the measure under consideration, the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) wants to underline the importance that Italian agriculture and agro-food invest for our country: two million companies, 9% of Italian GDP, three million workers in the supply chain, representing 14% of Italian employees, and more than 25 billion euros of taxes. At the same time, we must also mention one negative and worrying aspect: the number of our farms has been reduced from around 4 million in the 1960s to 1.5 million in 2012. This is a phenomenon that has intensified in recent decades: from 1990 to 2000 the sector has lost more than 400,000 companies and in the following decade as many as 775,000. With the approval of the measure under consideration, a process started with Decree-Law No 91 of 24 June 2014, in which not only agricultural support instruments were used, but also measures were introduced on the traceability of the agricultural product and on the correctness and regularity of the same companies. In the last law of stability an extraordinary effort has been made to give perspective and tools to a sector that - I think we can say without the subject of denial - represents one of the important frames of the territories of our country. In our country agriculture means, in many cases, maintenance of the territory, basic infrastructure for tourism, trade in many marginal areas of the country and support to a widespread and important economy. We worked with this conviction that we worked for agriculture throughout the country. In this draft law, we have included simplification measures and important measures for young people and new farms that are set up. In this respect, I think it is worth remembering that the interventions we are about to launch are also important because, to some extent, they coincide with the launch of the new rural development programmes carried out by the regions, which will have to address precisely the issue of the establishment of young people and the prospect of companies in many territories. We have dealt with issues relating to supply chains that may have development prospects or have problems to deal with, and then we have addressed regulatory issues regarding aquaculture, fisheries and the broad theme of poaching. On the subject of sburocratization, we have approved simplification measures in the field of olive oil, designations of origin, the definition of an agricultural entrepreneur, in the field of servitude, on the reduction of time limits for administrative measures. It has been realised that the overall legislative structure of the sector needs to be reset, which suffers from too much dispersal of rules and too much complication in applying them. The data provided by the trade unions shows that an Italian farm spends on average 2 euros per hour of work, 20 euros per day, 600 euros per month, 7,200 euros per year to carry out all the red tape imposed. The farmer takes eight days a month to fill the cards required by the central and local authorities. With this measure we give mandate to the Government for an organic review of the legislation within precise times, to draft an agricultural code that harmonizes the different regulatory levels. Moreover, it should be remembered that the Agriculture Plan 2.0 anticipated this objective by introducing, through an advanced computer system, the simplification of the relations between the public administration and the sectors of agriculture and fisheries. The plan contains the pre-filled questions, a single certified database and the unique register of companies. The requirements that farmers had to fill separately are simplified and summarised in a single farm file. They are common sense interventions, which not only tend to simplify bureaucracy, but which aim to enhance small realities, often precious garrisons of the most marginal territories. In this respect, the new instruments are of great importance to promote the economic and management processes of young people in the agricultural business. The employment figures for our young people show an increasing interest in returning to earth. To some extent, it is also important to have addressed the most necessary reform of the forestry regulatory framework, to have addressed the issue of latent expropriation allowances and to have addressed the issue of membership of waste collection consortia, with the simplifications that are linked. There are many measures that have had the ambition to take the issue of simplification into their own hands, trying to combine it in a concrete and timely way, where there were questions that asked to be addressed. As far as young people are concerned, we have included in this provision a rule on support societies and on the land bank. These are important measures, precisely because they have the ambition to accompany that ongoing process, supported above all by rural development and resettlement programmes, and to ensure a perspective for those companies that would of course not have it. I believe that talking about these issues means talking about most of the Apennine territories of our Italy, but also about important slices of pedestrian areas and disadvantaged hills; it is therefore an absolutely fundamental theme. Another aspect touched by the colleague is that of the reorganization of bodies, starting from the field of technical assistance in zootechnics and the supervised bodies and participated by the Ministry. Just as important is the delegation to reform the fisheries sector, which really requires urgent action, precisely because it is an important asset. We have dealt with issues relating to tomato and rice. I just want to mention the delegation to rice, important also because it comes from a global sharing of the entire supply chain on how to regulate, in the light of the new needs, the theme of the valorization and marketing of this product. We have addressed the theme of beekeeping and that of craft beer, a small sector, but the flagship of our typical productions of quality of the territory. For the beer sector, rules have been introduced to protect small breweries with less than 200,000 hectolitres, which will give great impetus to a craft production very often carried out by young entrepreneurs; an extraordinary phenomenon, which in a few years has grown in a very important way. I believe that by now we are close to the thousand craft breweries, covering a quota of almost 3% of the consumption of beer in our country, which represent quantitatively numbers not comparable with the industrial plants, but which certainly represent the tip of diamond of an Italian quality that is conquering, even abroad, recognitions and appreciations for the quality and innovation that has been able to put in the field. And then, as has already been said, there was provision in the original version of this measure for a set of rules on aquaculture and fisheries; it was decided to leave out a large part of this legislation precisely because an organic text is emerging in the House of Deputies on this matter. However, it was decided to maintain the issue of sanctions in the measure in question, precisely because it was in itself and needed to be dealt with. The issue of combating poaching was then introduced in the debate in the Commission in the House, an important step in terms of legal civilization and respect for animals, the environment and those who have the ambition to live by the rules on the ground. One last note. One of the final articles of the measure concerns a precise definition of the materials used for biogas, which are no longer defined as waste. It may seem a small thing, it is a small article; but for those who have worked on the territories it is a norm that solves diversity of interpretation from territory to territory, complex situations that come to create on these themes: with a unique interpretation that I believe will give perspective to a sector, that of biogas, which contains in itself the potential to produce energies valorizing material that would otherwise degrade of its environment, and that therefore deserves this type of valorization. I think I can say that the work done has been absolutely important. It is for agriculture, which is certainly going through a very complex phase this season, but which at the same time is expressing extraordinary potential, especially with regard to the export of quality products. We are amply over EUR 37 billion of exported products, and the horizon that has been defined, of EUR 50 billion in 2020, is no longer that far. As I said at the beginning of my speech, talking about agriculture means talking about what concerns the life of so many of our territories: in this sense the satisfaction we feel is great, because we have worked for agriculture, but through it we have worked for everything that is great, potentially important for the economy and the future of the territories. A final consideration. I would like to express my appreciation for the work carried out in both branches of Parliament and thank all the groups who contributed to this work, because it was really a great team game. I would like to thank President Formigoni, the Commission and Deputy Minister Olivero. Finally, I would like to reiterate the vote in favour of the People's Area. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u28	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, more than two years have passed since 21 February 2014, when this measure first arrived in the Senate. Since then, this text has become a bad boat, or rather the hull of the worst ferrymen with your scafist specialized in pre-election and post-election marches. A text that is now summed up, among others, in the usual delegations to the Government. In fact, provisions on agricultural contracts are being negotiated, gender equality is being discussed in the protection consortia (you tell me what this has to do with related agriculture, because I do not know), through the reorganization, the abolition and the reduction of the agencies supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry Policy. In these two years of treatment you have done a real restyling, not even had anything to do with a superfine aesthetic surgery. No more simplification and rationalization nor competitiveness, therefore no adequate measures for the agricultural sector but, on the contrary, everything was granted to favour the more or less occult lobbying and powers that Mr. bankruptcy had to satisfy for the joy of "Santa Maria Etruria." Let's start with article 1 - and I would say that we already start badly - because paragraph 10 comes to modify a provision of the decree-competitive law - that of competitive had nothing - and adds to the operational areas of the advisory system also the aspects that concern: technological innovation and computer science, precision agriculture and the transfer of knowledge from the field of research to the primary sector. We believe that this last definition is too general and could constitute a dangerous opening up to GMO cultivation. For this reason we have asked: either to delete the reference to this area or to specify or limit it. But nothing. None of this has been granted. This, of course, highlights your clear intention to open up to GMO crops. On fisheries and aquaculture, we call for the re-introduction of specific delegation criteria, because re-ordering and simplification must also concern this sector, which must not be forgotten. Moreover, in any case, a delegation to the Government cannot and must not be the usual white card to write what you want. The competent Commissions must make mandatory and binding opinions, without which the Dicasteries concerned can do nothing. We have asked that the implementation of the provisions on flanking agricultural land should not result in new or higher burdens on public finance. It is still absurd to charge taxpayers with expenses which, together with others, become increasingly unsustainable. So, don't talk about recovery and reform, because all you've done is bury the sector. In Article 8, we have proposed to help entrepreneurs in mountainous or disadvantaged areas with regard to the discipline of subcontracting activities. But nothing: this too has been rejected. In addition, consultation of the list of allowances and personal data of those entitled to expropriation allowances must be free of charge, as well as access to the national data banks of the zootechnical register for milk producers under the rural development plans. Finally, as far as money is concerned, we have called for the deletion of Article 10 concerning the contribution to the CONOE. Nothing. Continuing, and in the area of transparency, the maintenance of the green must be carried out through transparent custody procedures, with a public notice, favouring companies that use low environmental impact methodologies. Only registration in the official register of producers is not sufficient. But even on this, nothing. We have also proposed that the traceability system for rice should become mandatory; that the rules on derived products should also apply to tomatoes grown and processed in Italy, with clear labels not only for honey, but also for bee products. Nothing. Only in this way would consumers be given back a right to information that is due to them and that you have wasted over time. And then there's the horse. And it is right to say: but give yourself to the horse that you may do less damage. Reforming and reviving an industry means, first of all, using the most appropriate regulatory instruments. No, you don't. In short, Mr Vice-Minister, it is better if you set aside the delegations and listen more to the people we have audited in the Commission. Turning, then, to the content of substance, it cannot be overlooked that the public-private horse-riding body has very delicate tasks, ranging from the organization of horse-riding events to the allocation and reporting of resources. And therefore, it is not enough - as the related text does improperly - for the discipline of the governing bodies to be based on vague criteria, on something which is not written and which must then be interpreted as the criteria of representation. That is why we have asked the body to refer also to our usual criteria of transparency and advertising. One aspect on which the European Commission had already made observations, particularly on respect for the principles of freedom to provide services, freedom of establishment and transparency. The maximum dissemination of information is the basis, not only of active citizenship, but also of a democratic and evolved society. The danger, then, that the members, especially ministerial, of the horse-riding body may have conflicts of interest with respect to the positions they hold is real. That is why we have tabled an amendment to eliminate any distorting effect. But you want to keep distorting. In short, always on horseback, they settle with improper regulatory solutions issues that would need a more pragmatic approach, compared to which you have once again proved to be totally incompetent. It is not enough to self-delegate yourself as shamefully continue to do. The issues are not resolved with the blows of acceptance. We have called for the tightening of the provisions on the fight against fishing poaching in inland waters, both with stricter sanctions and by prohibiting practices that are hostile to the balance of fauna, such as the use of nets, tools and different instruments. But it is not enough, because, dulcis in the end, there are cracks and prunings. And here we allow ourselves to make an equation, because with the passage to the House came out an article that is to agriculture as the government is to common sense; that is, just to stay on the agricultural issue, a dry fig. This is, in particular, an amendment to Article 185 of the Environmental Code on exclusion from waste management; another bitter fruit of the magic tree found in the PD. In short, in a related farm you have invented to manipulate the environmental code - from pole to pole, always in order to remain in the agricultural theme - and you have decided to exclude from the definition of rejection the fecal matter, the straw, the staggers, the prunings and the company singing. This is one point, among other things, already highlighted in the February Budget Service report this year. So tell us, if you don't consider it a rejection, how do you view it? But above all: how do you plan to eliminate it? And here a world opens up, because the elimination of these wastes could generate incineration. Where? How? For whom? But mostly in favor of what? Biomass? Tell us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Speaking of years (because it's been two years that we talk about this related to the 2014 law of stability) try instead to burn the times and maybe return the refunds of the agricultural IMU payment of the years 2014 and 2015. Burn these years instead of anything else. Agriculture once again makes the Cinderella of the three economic sectors, an area that first exploits for Expo and that you slaughter instead of providing for common sense regulation for this sector. Now, our tireless "refining" activities, you've all taken care of. We have taken them forward but the agricultural colleague for 2014 - and I stress 2014 - cannot have our vote in favour or even our vote against, so I announce our abstention vote. I conclude by saying once again that there is no need for delegations, no need for referees or teams which are then sold to the highest bidder. This delegate is just the example of the massacre of legislation that you are doing, because your measures have one master: the market for mess. A measure, finally, that involved four natural elements: earth, air, water and unfortunately also fire. Fire fired on top with flamethrowers and which, in fact, prevents us from being able to express positively. Because this link shows only one thing: you want the delegation to bring milk from Romania, import tomatoes from China, oil from Tunisia, grain from the Black Sea, fish stocks from the Pacific. And what's left of Italian? Your reform on this crap and your signature on this agricultural related. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u31	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Madam President, my fellow Senators, Mr Vice Minister, as some of my colleagues have already pointed out, today comes to the final approval, more than twenty-seven months after the start of its examination, of the agricultural link to the public finance manoeuvre of 2013. A measure that has been presented by the previous Government (the one guided by Letta, to understand us) and that has been the subject of various and important changes, like the last occurred in the House, that have helped to modify both the plant and the initial impact. With a metaphor I say that, perhaps, with this measure, we wanted to anticipate the direction of constitutional reform. In fact, after a slow but slow work - which I considered positive - produced in the Commission, in the first phase here in the Senate, and then in the Assembly, the House intervened again, which essentially abolished all its elements of enrichment, forcing us today to take note of its work without being able to intervene. On the basis of this methodology, despite the time and the parliamentary work carried out on this initiative (perhaps too long), it remains evident that there is a need to do so, limiting what was the potential of a courageous and encouraging measure for the whole sector; a measure that everyone wanted to be organic and that had the ambition to relaunch. From this point of view, I think it was a pity that the ambition and strength needed for this political commitment was lacking, in a project that I understood and understood very well to be difficult, but that, at the same time, I considered and considered stringent and necessary. So, despite some good intentions, I think another opportunity has been missed. I think that another opportunity has been missed when the introduction of Article 9 and Article 15 has made the possibility of really affecting the state of the place void. But it has also been a missed opportunity, I believe, to choose a number of measures and provisions, which have developed in parallel and autonomously, but which in any case related to the subject matter of this measure, which have passed through other legislative initiatives, developing in part - or in large part - precisely the main understanding of this measure, which was to be organic, to form an overall platform of the agricultural system, to try to solve some elements of difficulty, especially in terms of simplification. I believe, therefore, that a mistake has been made by making real ad hoc interpolations in other measures, which have in fact strengthened - if I may say so - the timidity inherent in the initial draft law. As if that were not enough, all these parallel initiatives have not always been of real benefit to this sector, as, for example, and last but not least, the Commission's favourable opinion on the failure to indicate the expiry of olive oil. Let me be clear: I did not deceive myself, nor did I think it was possible to draw up a real Zibaldone on agriculture and agriculture. Of course, however, if we are talking about rationalization and simplification, as reported in this draft law, continuing to see the fragmentation of this matter in different tables and measures does not make it particularly easy or concrete to imagine being able to achieve the objective. It is this reason that drives me - and it pushes us - to consider this measure as a missed opportunity, at least in a very large part, and that pushes us to act in the direction of a vote of abstention on the measure, which we believe must be recognized the momentum of some will, but we also measure a dose of timidity. This is a dose of shyness that I believe must be resolved, because in this way we will risk not being able to give effective answers, or at least to give those answers to a sector as strategic as it is able to stand up to the crisis more than others and that puts particular trust in a measure that should have attacked laces and laces that choke its overall relaunch. I therefore believe that there is still a lack of clarity and unity in the line to be pursued in this field, starting - and I repeat this today - from the one to be held in Europe, where we must lead the mother of all the battles, that is, to preserve Italian production and its quality, to oppose measures that want to standardize the productions of all the European countries, the one aimed at combating unfair competition and at working for an effective protection of the territory and therefore also of its identities and productions. The positive effects of Expo risk not reaching the desired medium term without an effective strategy that combines simplification with innovation, a function - this - that was to be present in the measure under consideration. This is another missed opportunity and in the light of these considerations I confirm the abstention vote by myself and the Group; a abstention vote which is yet another act of recognition of a will to which we have not paid a job to which we have not escaped, because in the Commission too the commitment has been important; I say this also to the other parliamentary groups. In the same way I recognize how important was the presence and availability of Deputy Minister Olivero, who was betrayed then by the impossibility (which perhaps was given to him) to express a favourable opinion on any improvement initiative. We were aware that the time spent was so long, but we were equally confident that suggestions that could improve the effectiveness of the measure might have been collected. I therefore confirm our abstention vote. [[Applause from Senator Bell.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u34	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, farmers who listen to us from home and look at us, I also think they are amazed at how many things have been said today. I am referring in particular to this draft law linked to the financial maneuver, which has a major underlying problem, namely that of being disconnected from the reality and the real problems of agriculture and farmers. We must tell the Italians that it is not true that farmers are well, that today they are living a happy time, that agriculture and GDP are growing. Mr Vice-Minister, I would have liked to have the Minister here today, but unfortunately he is a person who does not deserve his presence and I deeply regret that the Minister for Agriculture and Food Policy and Forestry is very rare in this House. In my opinion, if he comes a few more times, with the modesty that this House can have, he would learn something and really could transform it and translate it into some article of law. I was saying if you ever bothered to go and see what the average income of the Italian farmer is. Have you ever gone to see the level of expenditure parametrated to the farmer's income? If you went to see, you would probably realize that the view that agriculture is flourishing in an exaggerated way today is by no means true. Have you gone to see what the income growth of farmers in Germany and France has been over the last ten years? If you haven't, I'll tell you: it's increased by 63.5%. Go and see how much the income of Italian farmers has increased. Reference is made to Eurostat data, i.e. 2015. But go and see those of 2014, when farmers' incomes had fallen by 11%. Let us make a general speech and stop mocking farmers by saying that agriculture is fine. Today, ask yourself what you really produce to benefit farmers with this link; I find it difficult to define it in these terms because I do not understand the meaning of it. In a year or two, ask the farmers. Go and see what it has actually produced of useful. I also like to quote a sentence from President Formigoni that farmers' lives, after this law, are greatly facilitated and, therefore, improved. I do not think this is happening at all because the trend in agriculture is under everyone's eyes. Have you ever considered incomes and prices in the cereals sector? There is the problem of sugar, fruit and vegetables, the dairy sector and oil imports, the latter due to a European law, which has just been approved by the Government, which does not reward Italian olive growers and oil producers. In the legislation for the standardization of the label, in fact, the period of preservation of a quality oil, which was previously expected within eighteen months, is removed. It has been removed to facilitate certain situations that are certainly not the prerogative of the Made in Italy of which everyone today boasts. What is that made in Italy? Did you go to see how much export is worth? Half of the counterfeit. If we stop anyone on the street, we'll hear that Italian sounding is worth 60 billion. Export is worth half. What do you do to stop this damage? The sanctions are being lifted, as we shall then see when I list very briefly in Article 2. Is this how agriculture is helped? Let's think about the dairy sector. I give some data: in twenty years we have lost 100,000 stables in Italy. Today there are 34,000 farms. What did the government do? It has allocated, to a direct measure, 25 million euros, which divided by 34,000 farms give little more than 700 euros which, further divided by 1.8 million cows, are little more than 13 euros. Do you know how much a cow eats with 13 euros? After two days she's already dead. Mr Deputy Minister, Minister who is not there and who I do not see, here you want to set the table and you study how to set it properly when the food is not there. There is a very wrong method of dealing with the problems of agriculture. We must have a serious impact and not with these measures, since this measure is already a contradiction that is added to so many laws. This will only complicate the situation. Quickly, I would like to make an excursus on some aspects, which I summarized in ten points, which should be commandments, but to which we should really disobey. Article 1 refers to the granting of the right of pre-emption in favour of the professional farmer compared with other figures. I wonder what you invented again. It is something that already existed in the right of preemption of those who are neighbors. It's not gonna be an innovation! In the text you speak of the common agricultural policy (CAP): but what CAP? There are farmers waiting to be paid from 2014, after making crop anticipations [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani]] and endangering the life of one's own agricultural enterprise. Article 2 of the text originally approved by the Senate and containing an integration relating to the crime of food counterfeiting has been deleted and a new Article 2 has been introduced. How can you talk about Italian soiling products and food counterfeiting and go on various TV shows to talk about made in Italy, when you delete an article that should have protected the Italian product? Is this a law that simplifies? Of course, it simplifies those who counterfeit and certainly not the farmer who wants to produce a quality product, having significantly higher costs than other European countries. Are these rules for competitiveness? I'm the opposite of what you should do. Having broken down the measure into a number of points, as I said earlier, I would now like to refer to the point relating to the provincial sections of the agricultural professional organizations and the provisions on expropriation allowances, because we are more concerned about this than about anything else. I'm going fast, Madam President. Article 13 refers to the provision of securities and trade associations: in my opinion, it is always bureaucracy that increases compliance and does not simplify. I would also remind you that Article 11 of the text approved by the Senate on the modernisation of logistics has been deleted. I repeat: the article that previews the modernization of the logistics has been deleted. I would like to know why! [[Recalls of the President]] I will continue quickly, Madam President, because I see that time is running out, but there are many points to be dealt with and they cannot all be dealt with. There has been talk of social agriculture, biodiversity, law of diversification, as if they were medals to affix to the breast of this government. However, I am willing to confront and challenge the Government at any time, to see what useful things could have produced these rules for Italian farmers and agriculture. Mr. Deputy Minister, there was even talk of pride. I want to quote what you said: you spoke of a unitary project, of excellence of our country. Mr. Deputy Minister, please listen to me, please. The process of this measure has already been a long one, and farmers are moving forward because of their patience and not because of what the government is doing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Amidei, I invite you to conclude. AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). I am beginning to conclude by taking up a sentence that the Deputy Minister said and I would therefore like to have your attention. He quoted a sentence that sent me back to school reminiscences when he said: I'm between colors that are suspended. I can imagine Mr. Vice Minister, like Virgilio, who, together with Minister Martina, in the various groups of agriculture, struggles, searches and turns. For my part I hope that the persuasive and beautiful voice of a farmer named Beatrice, to whom they are commanded to obey, will lead them towards an agriculture that really goes in the direction desired by the farmers. But I fear, Mr Vice-Minister, that the forest for you is still very dark, if that is what this bill is proposing to farmers. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and CoR groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u37	BERTUZZI (PD). Madam President, my voice will be outside the choir, because the Democratic Party wants to close the measure and not leave it as an unfinished work. I would like to thank my colleagues and the rapporteur for the very appropriate content they have expressed. However, the last changes made by the House maintain consistency with the agricultural policy guidelines which, since its establishment, the Renzi Government and the parliamentary majority have indicated in order to overcome the structural fragility of the production system: the inefficiency and ineffectiveness of the public support instruments, the inadequacy of the risk management system, the phenomenon of exploitation of labour, as well as the distortions of often unfair competition. However, the effort to overthrow the paradigm is undeniable: from marginal and assisted agriculture the government is trying to move from an emergency policy to a policy that leads an agri-food industry that can drag the economic recovery of the country. The macroeconomic data of recent years, despite what has been said, have shown tenacity and effort in many entrepreneurs - and I address them - who have been able to grasp a new demand for knowledge, transparency and traceability, bringing consumers closer to producers who are no longer anonymous and indistinct. Unpublished ways of recomposing an income have been established, thinned by logics of an increasingly difficult and complex market, which has progressively reduced prices and required higher performance. This must be recognized to them. These companies, which today are a minority distributed as a leopard on the national territory, are, however, the prototype of a new model. They are companies that have been able to build their competitive strength, based on research and investment in quality and health of the product, reinforced by many intangible elements (the way of producing, the link with the places, the knowledge, the ability to put together and optimize tradition and innovation), crossing ever more sophisticated expectations of a conscious and competent demand. With them we have spoken and discussed the structural problems, in a daily life that has continued to be made up of natural disasters, fluctuations in prices, crises in important sectors: from dairy to olive, from pig to cereal, to beet-sacchariferous, from fishing to aquaculture, just to remember the main ones. We have strongly focused on a new protagonism of enterprises, on generational replacement, on the aggregation of supply and the integration of enterprises into the supply chains, on the innovation of the tools of management - increasingly complex - of risk and access to credit. We are pursuing transparency in traceability and have launched a real multilateral challenge towards legality. These are the aces of parliamentary work which should make us all proud and which in the previous parliamentary term - I would like to remind you - has always found deaf governments, precarious ministers, lack of guidelines, lack of relations with the European Union. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The acceleration given by the Renzi Government to intervene, modernising and innovative, the agricultural and agri-food sectors opened, in fact, a new legislative season, starting from the text of the related. Dear friends, for me they have been two extraordinary years, absolutely exceptional, for agriculture, agri-food, fisheries and aquaculture. And, in my opinion, also for our commitment and the productivity of our work here, in the Senate; a commitment of all, within the 9th Commission, in the confrontation with the Government, with the Ministry, with the House, each in his own role. Surely we have put so much passion and spirit of representation of our territories, also from colleagues engaged in other matters. The wind has changed. Our work has really affected the choices that are accompanying the transformation of these sectors, with a new centrality in the economic, social and environmental policy of the country. The causes of backwardness have been addressed; a new relationship has been rebuilt between producer and consumer, finding as keystone an extraordinary potential, made of quality products, environmentally friendly agriculture, decent work and fairly paid. These objectives have become laws and decree-laws, at the initiative of the Government, but also parliamentary. We have chosen the most appropriate legislative instrument, leaving aside the interest in assuming the paternity of the new proposals in favour of the objective of their implementation. Free field in the so-called competitiveness decree; emergency decrees for the milk and oil sectors and in the matter of natural disasters; social agriculture; biodiversity; reduction of the tax burden with the IMU and IRAP exemption for agricultural enterprises; contrast to the exploitation of labour; single text on wine; consumption of land; collective catering; education to the value of food; hemp sector; single text on fisheries and aquaculture (and not a delegation); text against food waste and, today, the related: these are the measures they have committed in the last two years and will continue to commit in the coming months the Parliament and the Government. In the modifications to the connected we find the interweaving of many contents of the drafts of law in question to the Senate (I think of the societies of accompaniment, the Bank of the earth, the reorganization of the agencies, the simplification and the net of the agricultural job of quality). Many parts have been deleted, but they have not disappeared as they have been incorporated into other measures (such as fisheries and aquaculture), as well as the new entries in the House of Deputies have emerged from new topics brought to our attention (I refer, for example, to craft beer and beekeeping). Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I will bring the measure under consideration, which shows all the inefficiency of equal bicameralism, as an example of supporting the yes to the referendum on constitutional reform. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Expo was an extraordinary occasion for the international launch of the brand made in Italy, behind which there are real value, uniqueness, safety and health. It was an important part of our battle against Italian soiling, which is not only about barriers. Surely we need to strengthen, as we have already done, the controls against counterfeiting, but in order to protect our brands abroad we must work and collaborate with countries that show interest in our products. Expo, however, wasn't just that. From industry policies, messages have emerged for all about the value of food and an assumption of responsibility to affirm the universal right to food in the world as an objective for new policies of equality and the fight against inequality. The centrality of agriculture opens up new opportunities, but also new challenges on which we have only begun to discuss and for which they are very distant synthesis shared. What relationship between science and politics, between science and production, between new technologies and the future of production? What trade relations with other countries? The job to do is definitely still a lot. Some deliveries are already contained in the measure under consideration on the same delegations that we are giving to the Government and on which there are strong expectations, first of all with regard to the simplification of regulations. This country has never managed to acquire a unitary agricultural code. Dear Deputy Minister, this will be a decisive step and we will not accept the copy and paste of Minister Zaia, which has been presented and lies in a drawer because it is inaffrontable. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In the same way, we will wait for the realization of the decrees on companion societies, on which many young people are aiming to have, like their French and Spanish colleagues, an instrument that allows them to gradually access the land. My dear colleague, Mr Ruvolo, these are the measures that young people are asking of us, who have never told me about the tax of amalgamation. I believe that the reorganization of risk management instruments and the continuation of the restructuring of the entities supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (in the first instance AGEA) will lead to a further change of pace. Are we on the right track? The economic data - alas, ladies and gentlemen - tell us yes. Dear Senator Amidei, a few days ago ISTAT certified that the added value of Italian agriculture was in 2015 the highest in Europe: more 3.8 percent, that is three, four times the result obtained in the other economic sectors of our country. But the most striking fact is that for the first time the growth figures of the Southern regions are higher than the national average. It increases employment in the sector, as well as increases productivity and income margins. The latter figure, relating to the regions of the South, is certainly the most significant result, both because it refers to a sector that is traditionally marginalized in terms of competitiveness, and because it comes from that part of the country that is more difficult to start again. It is true that this is a statistical figure and, as such, it needs to be broken down and more in-depth, but it is undeniable, ladies and gentlemen, that it signals a clear and clear reversal of trends, both in relation to economic developments and in relation to how we are coming out of the crisis with a different composition of GDP; as it is equally undeniable that it is also the result of the policies of reform and investment of this Government and this majority. This is not happening because of random circumstances and is not even temporary. It is the result of a process of real change in the role that the production of primary goods is undergoing, in a society that is transformed and with a renewed relationship with food, with health and with the environment, and a policy that is intercepting it, supporting and strengthening it. Let's go on this road, the PD will be convinced. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u38	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u39	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 10-362-388-395-849-874-B, already approved by the Senate in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Senators Manconi and others, Casson and others, Barani, De Petris and De Cristofaro, Buccarella and others, Torrisi, and amended by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteurs, Senators Buemi and D'Ascola, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator D'Ascola.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u40	Madam President, I would like to point out that the text that we are presenting to this House this evening is a balanced text in a certain sense. The latter is unfortunately a rare term, but here particularly significant for the complexity of the issues that had to be addressed and especially for the need for a balance between opposing needs and both worthy of great consideration. Therefore, this is a case in which the legislator must be endowed with that ability to balance which must include a rule that is then usable for the judicial authority, which will be called upon to apply it. 18.16 (Followed by Ascola). First point. It is, in its basic hypothesis, a common crime, that is, a crime that can be committed by every citizen. In fact, the Commission intended to establish even more stringent protection than in the event that the offence had been built solely on the official figure. The protection is strengthened because it clearly enhances the scope of the standard, making it obviously applicable to any context, therefore also to the non-publicly qualified one. What is the structure of the fact? In the text, at least that reached the Senate, there is talk of violence, serious and repeated threats, that is, of having acted cruelly against the victims; conducts that have caused a condition of acute physical suffering against the same person offended, or of a psychic trauma verifiable during the debate. The speakers are widely available to explain the aspects considered problematic related to these two events, therefore acute physical suffering or a verifiable psychic trauma. But, these acute physical sufferings or this verifiable psychic trauma must be carried out against a person deprived of personal freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, this choice was in a certain sense dictated by the need to differentiate - it is a very delicate point of criminal law - this crime from the possible, whatever the introduction of this criminal law, reference rules. In fact, one of the difficulties in writing and thinking about the crime of torture lies precisely in the fact that the field of these conducts is already covered by other provisions. Those who carry out acts of violence and serious threats, those who cause serious and acute suffering, both physical and psychological, are clearly already committing a crime regardless of the introduction of the crime of torture. I say this because it is clear that this course was to be seriously diversified, otherwise it would not have been understood why a criminalization of previously criminalized conducts. On the other hand, the figure of the official was expected, because it had to be made, in the aggravated hypothesis, with a provision that basically refers to the basic structure of the fact, because it simply says that if the fact referred to in the previous paragraph is made by an official, of course, the penalties are aggravated. But here no further element of the case is introduced except the indication of the subjective legal qualification of a public official. Then there are some aggravating factors related to the different severity of the events resulting from the conduct of torture. In addition, within the same Article 1, which covers the murder of torture, the incitement to torture is envisaged. This is also a crime of incitement which imposes an exception to the historical principles of criminal law, but which is understood here by the seriousness of the facts, even if it is a particular incitement: that of the public official towards the public official and the incitement of the person responsible for a public service towards a similar person. Therefore, it is an incitement that takes place in a closed environment, in certain contexts, having considered the Commission to consider these facts particularly serious. Reasoning in the opposite direction to a certain tradition in the field of incitement, it was considered that an incitement limited to a specific context, characterized by the presence of several people, could have a greater diffusion. I would like to conclude my speech here, since I have given only summary information on the structure of the torture crime. Then, of course, the draft law is made up of other provisions, which we will discuss in various ways during parliamentary work. It is established, in order to make simplifications, that the evidence obtained through torture (here we think, of course, of investigative contexts) is unusable. This is a necessary rule, even though the jurisprudence, but also the doctrine, have always developed the category of illicit evidence. It is beyond doubt that if the evidence is the result of violent activity the evidence is unusable. It is established that no immunity can be granted to foreign government agents, including military agents, who are suspected or already convicted of the torture crime. In essence, in addition to this generalist rule on torture, there are many things to be said, among which also, conclusively, the statement that expulsions and rejections are not allowed or extradition to a person with respect to whom there is a real danger that, if returned to the country of origin, would be subjected to torture, also taking into account, in the context of such a judgment, the systematic violation of human rights in the country where that subject should return.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u41	I call the rapporteur, Senator Buemi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u42	Mr President, I refer to the report by Mr D'Ascola.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u43	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Manconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u44	Mr President, senators and senators, representative of the Government, I think this debate is as important as it is delicate. I would like to remind you that this bill provides for the introduction into our legal system of the criminal case of the crime of torture, thus complying with a device dating back twenty-eight years ago. The United Nations Convention against Torture is from 1984. The ratification by our country is in 1988. Twenty-eight years have passed. I would like to remind you that on 15 March 2013 I presented a bill on the crime of torture, signed also by Senators Corsini and Tronti, who made timely reference to the United Nations Convention and its guiding principle. The text we are debating today, in my opinion, is far from what was the inspiration of the International Convention, first of all for a reason that needs to be highlighted and for a very significant reason. In other laws and in the draft law presented by me and others, the crime of torture is defined as its own offence, that is attributable to public officials or to those who exercise public service. In this there is no form of aggression against the police or even a preconception, a sort of hostility towards the state's apparatus, but the awareness that torture finds its foundation, its reason for being and its most relevant and coherent framework in a crucial category: the abuse of power. Torture is not in this context a perverse inclination, it is not the manifestation of an individual psychopathology, it is not the helliness of a single. As President D'Ascola has rightly pointed out, for these behaviors, for the exercise of physical and psychic violence among individuals, our law provides for precise criminal cases and appropriate sanctions. No, the crime of torture is something very different: it is the exercise of physical or psychic violence by those who hold power over the body of another. Torture is that behavior that inflicts acute suffering, put in place by those who have legal ownership of the custody of a person deprived of freedom. This is the fundamental essence of the crime of torture, both in the International Convention and in the laws of democratic states similar to us. There is no trace of this in relation to the text we are debating, because the crime we are talking about has become a common crime, that is, what can be committed in relations between individuals. But of the text in question, which raises in me strong doubts and widespread doubts, I want to highlight two elements: the first is that, with respect to the text approved at first reading by the Senate, the term "reiterate" has been added to the formula "physical or psychic violence." It is thought that originally the formula is physical or psychic violence, enough, as the United Nations Convention says, to inflict acute suffering for torture. That "any act" becomes a plural (physical and psychic violence) and to this plural is added another term: "reiterate". I am afraid that this encourages a macabre and causid tendency, a sort of numerology, an arithmetic mist of cruelty that indicates a threshold beyond which one has torture, the "how many times," and before which there is no torture. I would remind you that during the 14th legislature, precisely for this reason, the President of the Commission, Mr Pecorella, asked for the text to be sent back to the Commission, because, precisely, he had highlighted that irresistible tendency towards a classificatory vocation that made the acts of torture a sort of splatter sequence of a horror film. Not only that: the original psychic violence formulation has been replaced by another: "verifiable psychic trauma." On this I did some research, I had several interviews, I tried to investigate and deepen. You will see that international scientific literature emphasizes a singular circumstance: what in filmic and literary iconography is the most recurrent of the circumstances of psychic violence, what is commonly called Russian roulette, according to international scientific literature is a behavior, whose outcome is not among those clinically verifiable as a psychic trauma, although it could happen a few hours away from scientific verification. Therefore, I believe that these additional specifications correspond to as many obstacles, limits placed to the determination of that act of torture which, in my opinion, much more wisely had to be entrusted to the discernment ability of the jurisprudential authority. This means that my attitude to this bill is extremely perplexing and I would like to check the outcome of the vote on the amendments, some of which I have tabled, before I declare my vote. Finally, last week in this House we were talking about the story of Giulio Regeni. I did not want to intervene, also because the mere fact that that horrible affair has now become, in our archives of memory, the case of Regens seems to neutralize its dramatic scope and reduce it, precisely, to a sort of intolerable seriality of the accidents of history. But today I do not want to add my own personal considerations, faithful to the desire to avoid a debate that I have often considered superficial. I want, however, to refer to the words of the mother of Giulio Regenti, Paola Regenti, spoken during the press conference held at the Senate, in this institution, on Easter Tuesday. Paola Regeni is a woman who, perhaps by virtue of that grace of state that Catholic theology recognizes in those who are in conditions of extreme suffering, knows how to find words of a truly rare literary and civil power. Paola Regeni said: I saw my son's face become small, small, small. In that face I saw all the evil in the world. Torture is not simply an act of cruelty that affects the flesh of an individual; it is a will of annihilation of the person and will of mortification and degradation of his dignity. That is why I ask you to meditate on this text. It is not enough for us, in fact, any law, but we would like to have a good law. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u45	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u46	Mr President, perhaps we have been evaluating this draft law for a few years now and we are still coming here to amend, as has been amended in the Commission, the proposal that had been put forward here, went to the House and had a substantial change. Perhaps it has been years since President D'Ascola was able to find that balance on this subject. We do not see that balance, because the text adopted by the Senate at first reading then in the House of Deputies has been completely modified in a completely incomprehensible and totally unacceptable way for us. We cannot, however, be silent about this passage that has been made, because until proven otherwise, apart from some clarifications, the majority in the Senate should be the same in the House and if we talk about justice we do not see why there should be differences of views on texts such as the one under consideration. It has been said that there are problems with the very configuration of the torture crime. When talking about the constituent elements of the crime as they should emerge from international conventions, they were probably not repeated in the draft law under consideration and the House had attempted to expand it in such a way that in reality it was not possible to punish that crime of torture as it could be imagined in natural law, but one went to find a set of behaviors for which in the end there was a certain indeterminateness and genericity that risked to exploit the type of crime in order to punish conduct that had nothing to do with torture. Let us remember - because now we cannot keep quiet - the controversy that has arisen on the part of the police forces themselves. In fact, in the text approved by the House of Deputies, regarding the constituent element of the crime of torture, reference was made to anyone who used violence or threat (so it could also be a single act, not even a plurality of acts) in order to overcome a resistance. There had been a lot of discussion about this issue, because at the time when the policeman made the arrest, in taking the criminal probably exerts violence against a person who is at least subject to his supervision or custody, then he came to commit a torture offence and even have a punishment even aggravated up to fifteen years as a public officer. I wonder how it was possible to think of a form of crime of that kind, so much so that when the text came back to the Senate we, who probably died, in the Commission we found some legal elements and tried to contain the case with that balance that the President mentioned earlier. Then I say that we are probably talking about balance in the new wording of article 613-a and that nothing is so different from the wording that emerged from the first reading in the Senate. In any case, we are still extremely perplexed by this form of crime, because we wonder how the crime of torture is in natural law and how we want it in this case. I do not say that torture is imagined in the terms in which it could exist in the Middle Ages, because there are different themes and instruments, but I think of the very fact of inducing suffering of a psychic type. Not at all in the Commission have we rightly asked for it to be at least a verifiable psychic trauma, otherwise psychic suffering is difficult to quantify. Not only that, the third paragraph has also been deleted, where it was said that in order to apply the rules on torture suffering must be further than that resulting from the execution of legitimate private or limited rights measures. That engraving served precisely to try to contemper this configuration of crime and to distinguish it, or at least it served not to get to configure it whenever a police officer or any representative of the Forces of the order is to deal with a criminal, because even at the very moment when he is deprived of his personal freedom, in the end a psychic suffering in some way produces it. This may have been a way of contemplating and eliminating certain upset effects of the norm. We have deleted it in the Commission, but we can have legitimate concerns about that. Among other things, we still have the greatest doubt as to the wording of Article 3, which reads: "Rejection or expulsion or extradition of a person to a State shall not be permitted where there are reasonable grounds to believe that he or she is likely to be subjected to torture" We wonder if the reason for this is based on newspaper news or whether there are any complaints or social reports that torture is likely to be carried out in a state. How can we be sure that there is this systematic and serious violation of human rights? What is the mechanism for which we have proof that torture is actually carried out? The possibility of torture by a public security authority is hardly codified in a State. It could be systems that aren't so proven or distinguishable. We fear that providing for a well-founded reason for a probable risk - we are always talking about an eventuality - will block all rejections and expulsions. How can it be said that human rights violations do not occur in Third World countries? We don't know; we don't have proof. There's no way. This could be a mechanism to create excuses. We do not want to dwell on purely technical matters. It is obvious that it seems incredible to have to talk about the torture crime in 2016 to ban it. We should be in such an advanced civilization that we should not even talk about torture. When two years ago this House dealt with the crime of torture for the first time there were cases involving the abuse of the elderly or the disabled within structures. Here, unfortunately, behavioral methods were used that resulted in a crime of a natural type such as torture. People were subjected to a set of psychic sufferings with total annihilation of the dignity of the person. We find it really incredible to think that we are not in a civilized world and that we must put in place a torture crime because unfortunately torture can exist. After two years of drafting and deepening in the Commission, however, we come to a rather poor text in this respect. Probably the configuration of the crime will not have the desired effectiveness. We still keep our perplexities. That is why we have tabled a number of amending proposals which we will then present. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u47	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u48	Mr President, I believe that when we talk about torture we must have something very clear in mind, that is, who we want to protect first in our country. First of all, we must protect citizens, that is, honest and decent people who risk being attacked by a drunkard, a drug addict, a rapist or a person, as it has happened, who is hitting passers-by. Then there are situations in which citizens, in order to defend themselves, call the police and the carabinieri who come to defend them. There are, then, the citizens first; then the policemen and the policemen, who do their duty and, on the third step, the aggressors like the drug addict, the drunk and the rapist. The problem is that when we talk about torture in this measure, we confuse the plans. The fact that poor Regeni has been tortured is very clear and that we must strike with the greatest energy those who should perform such behaviors in Italy are equally clear. What are we talking about? I read a letter to the "Corriere" of the evening four days ago, from Professor Di Caesar. I would like to remind you that torture is an arson: you have to have the will to torture someone. Professor Di Cesare, in her letter to the "Corriere della sera" to mention the cases of torture, talks about the cases of Aldrovandi, Cucchi, Magherini and Uva. It is the usual mantra, which we have also heard here. These are therefore cases where, according to the law under consideration, those responsible should go to life, since there has been a death. Then I wrote to the Corriere of the evening to say: "Sorry, ma'am, in all these cases the accusation was of manslaughter!" In the Uva case all were acquitted: three times the prosecutor asked for absolution and finally, at the fourth time he asked for it even in the hearing, they were acquitted. They had absolutely nothing to do with it, even though there had been this mantra, with the photographs of the carabinieri who were published on social media, indicating them as murderers, so much so that they had to change their homes and the children of these completely innocent carabinieri were threatened at school. The Magherini case has not yet reached the first degree. As for the Cucchi case, I can't understand what it has to do with torture. You can go and see the footage in which the father declares that, from his point of view, at the hearing the son had swollen face and evident signs in his eyes, but physically he was doing just fine. It moved and the fact of the broken vertebrae absolutely did not exist. He said that as far as he could see, he excluded it at 100%: Stephen moved and walked, spoke and moved like a normal person. If there was a problem with his vertebrae, he would have felt pain and would have known and told him. So he ruled out in the most categorical way that the son's behavior was not a normal behavior. After that, the constables, who were gonna beat him up after that, were acquitted. The only case where there was a conviction was the Aldrovandi case, for manslaughter, because the cops would keep poor Aldrovandi on the ground, in such a situation that he would have had a heart attack. Look, it's exactly the exact same thing that happened in front of Palazzo Chigi, when a carabiniere was hit, by such a Preiti and his co-carabinieri instead of shooting the attacker, they jumped at him and threw him on the floor. Go and see all the photos with the carabiniere riding the attacker, who puts his hand behind his back and cuffs. Well, according to Professor Di Caesar and some colleagues, if the one who shot the policeman at that time had had a heart attack, the policeman who had stopped him would have taken life. According to Professor Di Caesar, in fact, these are all cases of torture. I have therefore written to the "Corriere della sera" (Corriere of the evening): Excuse me, ma'am, what are you saying? Torture is an arson and not a manslaughter. To which the teacher answered me saying that they have been acquitted, because there is not yet the crime of torture, otherwise they would have been convicted. I don't know if you understand the logical leap of a reading of torture, which is not what we think, so a person is taken and tortured, with torn nails and everything we've seen. No, this would be accidental, which can happen to any policeman or policeman who intervenes and who is translated into the great media - in Parliament several times has been said - as a case of torture. Moreover, the text that is submitted to our attention states that: "Everyone with (...) serious threats (...) causes (...) a verifiable psychic trauma (...) is punished with the penalty of imprisonment from three to ten years" if he is an officer with the penalty of imprisonment from five to eighteen years and if there is the death of the deed with life imprisonment. It is said that anyone with serious threats is punished causes a verifiable psychic trauma: therefore, the threat becomes torture. I've seen some questioning of magistrates, for example in the case of the two who shot at the university. If that is the definition of torture, many magistrates, when they do interrogations, should be charged with torture. I don't think there's a mobster or a member of the 'ndrangheta' who gets arrested and questioned in a rough way, who won't say immediately that he was tortured, if they threaten to end up in jail, saying: "Look at us throwing away the key, you don't get out of prison anymore, confess!" These are threats. I repeat, these are threats. If these threats have caused trauma, that's torture. Is this torture? On what path are we walking with respect to those who must intervene to protect the safety of all? Attention, while the attacker certainly commits a crime and endangers the lives of citizens, the policeman or policeman must intervene, thus endangering his own life to defend that of others. What are we gonna do to him, Senator Manconi? I want to say this: every time something like this happens, Senator Manconi arrives and, together with Cucchi and Aldrovandi, he goes to do press conferences, in which the police are prejudiced. Lawyer Anselmo adds - go read the interviews - that he doesn't win the lawsuits in court but in the media, because he can create such a great pressure on the media that still policemen and policemen, even if they haven't done anything, are three or four years under trial. They ruin their lives, their families are threatened, photos are put on the media. When, then, they are acquitted, it is no use, because Professor Di Caesar, even before an acquittal passed in court, says that these are guilty of torture. But to the question of whether the crimes are arson or manslaughter, one answers that, of course, they were manslaughterous, but if there had been torture they would have been arson. Colleagues, in this way we keep open certain cases in our country. I have been a carabiniere of leverage, but not everyone has been a carabiniere of leverage; they have a different story behind them than the concept of carabinieri and policemen. Of course, when it is said that there is a culture of violence in the police or police, and therefore prejudicedly it is assumed that, when these intervene, they do so by exercising this type of violence, very, very bad: if they do so - and if it is proved - they must be judged with the utmost severity. But be careful, let's think about when a policeman or policeman - I am still quoting the case in front of Palazzo Chigi - intervenes to block a person, especially if altered. Just think of the Magherini case: how many phone calls came from citizens because he had thrown a woman out of a taxi and attacked another person inside: it was in the classic cocaine delusion. Stopping a person like this is not easy because in these cases that begs, it rebels. If something happens, if something happens, what does the policeman or the policeman do? Do you know from before that if you intervene to block a person like that, you risk life? Not only is he risking his life, but he's still in danger of going to trial? You know that even in the case of Aldrovandi, the Court of Auditors almost annulled the sanction against those policemen by saying that in the end they intervened as the Rules of Procedure required them to do to block a person who resisted arrest. If holding him on the ground in that position, with the cuffs behind his back, there was an accidental case, I don't argue. The sentence is: manslaughter for negligence, malpractice; they held him in the wrong position. But is it torture, as everyone is saying? The problem is that Italy is a strange country because before making a rule we should agree on the aims of the same. This provision is necessary if a case of Regens happens in Italy, both the Canaro and a private one, the one who had taken prisoner one who mocked him, and for a week in Rome tortured him in all possible ways and then killed him: of course it is right to have him severely punished for that murder because in that case it was torture. In the same way, when certain episodes occur in a nursing home compared to an elderly person or in a kindergarten compared to subjects who cannot defend themselves: of course that is torture. But here we do a public-media operation in which we call torture a certain kind of behavior. Do you want there to be no concern in the policemen, the policemen, the police leaders and the policemen who have come to the Commission to explain that, when the citizen is in danger, the policeman, the policeman who intervenes also takes into account the very serious risk he faces, that it is not only the risk of losing his life in the struggle - many times, unfortunately, when there are ceremonies, the Head of State gives prizes to widows, to the family of policemen who have fallen on duty precisely in situations of this kind - but also that of ending up under endless trials, under pressure from a public opinion that is still being driven, every case? On the other hand, as science shows, a state of excitement from cocaine and alcohol can also die spontaneously. And if this happens when the cops intervene, what do they do? They go to life imprisonment, because they are guilty of intervening when this happened, which would have happened without their intervention anyway? We have tabled amendments to clarify what we want to do and we do so in the light of what the media, and not just the media, report every day. Had it not been the "Corriere della sera" (Corriere of the evening), which is the largest Italian newspaper, that gave this professor a great deal of space five days ago, indicating these four cases of torture, all manslaughter, that should be punished as such, we would not have this concern. Unfortunately, that is the expectation and therefore our amendments are aimed at further clarifying the aims of this measure. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u49	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u50	Mr President, I believe that President D'Ascola is right: this is a very complex and delicate measure, in which it is difficult to find a balance. But we must start with a fact: despite the ratification of many international conventions, Italy has so far failed to fulfil its obligation to incriminate torture through the adoption of an ad hoc criminal case. However, the prohibition of torture is considered in international law to be a mandatory rule of law, i.e. also in emergency situations, as provided for in the Convention signed in 1984 and transposed by Italy four years later. Not only that, States must also exercise systematic surveillance of regulations, instructions, methods and practices of interrogation, as well as the provisions on the custody and treatment of persons subject in any way to restrictions of their freedom. However, after the ratification of the Convention against Torture, Italy did not feel the need to introduce an ad hoc crime, because it was believed that in our code there were already suitable cases to punish all the acts referred to in Article 1, even those committed by public officials in the performance of their duties. Our Government supported this position in the reports sent to the Committee against Torture in 1990, 1994 and 1998. Only in the 2002 report did the Italian authorities expressly acknowledge the need to amend the provisions of the penal code. The measure, which should also incorporate the call of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, became even more urgent after Italy's condemnation of the tortures committed by the police at Diaz school during the G8 in Genoa in 2001. The absence of a case that allows to punish in a proportionate manner particularly heinous conduct put in place by the Forces of the Order was in fact reason of censorship both at international level, and by the judges called to decide on that case, who have found that the inhuman and degrading conduct established in court could undoubtedly have been included in the concept of torture provided for by the Convention, thus denouncing the inadequacy of the criminal cases for which the defendants were called to respond. The ratio underlying the introduction of the torture offence can be traced back to two sets of considerations: on the one hand, information extorted by torture cannot be considered reliable in order to be taken as evidence in criminal proceedings; on the other hand, the penalty of inusability should remove incentives for the use of torture, thus helping to prevent it. But since March 2013 there has been a change in the text between the two branches of Parliament. At the heart of the issue is the concern, underlined by the leaders of Carabinieri, Police and Finance Guard, that there should not be a crime against the Forces of Order. After a first text approved to the Senate, then largely corrected by the House, for almost a year the measure ended in limbo, after the mandate to the rapporteur conferred by the Commission Justice in July 2015. Now we're back, with some correction, to the original text that came out of the Senate. Contextualizes what triggers the punishment; the expression "reiterate violence" is introduced, the act "with cruelty" and the "verifiable psychic trauma" is introduced. On the point related to the Forces of Order, the original wording of the Senate returns. In the text of the Chamber, however, it was specified: "If the facts (...) are committed by an official or by a person in charge of a public service with abuse of powers or in violation of duties inherent in the function or service, the sentence of imprisonment from five to fifteen years shall apply. The text that returns to the Senate Chamber today provides instead: If the facts... are committed by an official in the performance of his duties..., the penalty shall be five to twelve years' imprisonment. In short, they reduce sanctions, and the crime, which remains common and not just a public official, as is prescribed by the New York Convention, becomes even more general. For torture to be considered, for example, violence and threat must be repeated. Among the aims listed in order to better define the case, the ethnic, religious or sexual discriminatory ones disappear; as well as the phrase "to overcome a resistance" disappears, accepting a relief moved by Prefect Pansa, according to which for the text of the Chamber it could be considered a torturer even who causes an acute suffering (so also with a single manga), with the specific pain of winning a resistance. But since the penal code, in Article 53, states to the opposite that it is the task of the policeman to win a resistance, conflicts of jurisprudence would have been profiled. The leaders of the Forces of the Order have emphasized in particular the risk that by this law we can no longer guarantee public order, because every taffoglio could be followed by a flood of complaints to the judiciary. In short, there are two needs: the protection of public order and respect for human rights. And in this sense it was desperate to hear a general prosecutor of our Republic say that Stefano Cucchi was a victim of torture, like Giulio Regeni, when he was in the hands of the Italian State. Mr President, in conclusion, I believe that defending human rights and making the International Convention against Torture operational is not an act against anyone, but an act to guarantee everyone, and that if this parliamentary term were to end with nothing in fact it would be a failure that politics cannot afford. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u51	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide from you the personal satisfaction of being able to speak on this measure today. The bill, apart from the detailed judgements on the content and individual convictions, has the merit of introducing the crime of torture into our legal system, into the penal code. The absence in our order of this crime has of the incredible, Italy being the homeland of Cesare Beccaria and Pietro Verri, who over two hundred years ago had already treated and stigmatized the practice of torture. In fact, the draft law has been marked by a very difficult legislative process, sometimes inconsistent, and the colleagues who preceded me have already illustrated it. However, on such an important subject I would have expected a convergence of positions that would look more at the social and international scope of future provisions than at that, much more short-sighted, of national policy. In fact, the Italian law does not provide in this case with regard to the crime of torture, despite the Constitution, in Article 13, paragraph 4, states that any physical and moral violence on persons still subject to restrictions of freedom is punished. The fact remains that a long time has passed since Italy, in 1988, ratified the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishments, adopted in 1984 by the United Nations General Assembly by Resolution 39/461. No less important, then, are the numerous international treaties and agreements that stipulate that no one can be subjected to torture, especially if among them there is the frequently cited Convention of 1984, which is what defines, in a specific way, the crime in question. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you will agree with me that the historic moment has come to provide our legal system with a specific crime, in a clear and unambiguous manner, not only because it has emerged from the public debate what is now necessary, but above all to fill a regulatory vulnus which is no longer acceptable. This is also demonstrated by recent reports in which those criminal behaviors would have been punished more effectively and more punctually if our order had been endowed with this type of crime. I affirm and stress what has been said, because we are not only legislators but also citizens, who believe in justice and - even more so - believe in the protection of human rights, in all its forms, especially those most guaranteed. We do not need to be expert lawyers or special promoters of human dignity to testify that, in this respect, our legal system is characterised by a lack of protection. Simply read some pages of the judicial documents on what happened between 19 and 21 July 2001 in Genoa on the occasion of the G8, or on the cases of Cucchi and Aldrovandi. These are obscure events that reveal that sense of inadequacy and incompleteness of our criminal system in reacting to violations of human dignity, integrity and even life. As I mentioned earlier, the legislative process has been very messy, and I cannot fail to express my disappointment at the House' s pretentious will to overturn a measure adopted unanimously at first reading in the Senate, with no votes against and only three abstentions. Specifically, I agree with the introduction of Article 613- bis in the penal code, which punishes anyone, with repeated violence and serious threats, who causes acute physical or mental suffering to a person deprived of personal freedom or entrusted to his custody, authority, care or assistance, with imprisonment from three to ten years. I believe that we can go on repeating how serious the threats must be and how much violence must be repeated. Maybe it's that meeting point between different positions that will help us move forward. Article 613- bis, then, provides for the burden if the offender is a public officer, with a imprisonment from five to twelve years. Finally (I would finally add), we arrange the attack on death as a consequence of torture in the two different hypothesis of intentional or unwanted death, but consequence of the activity of torture. Another aspect worthy of attention is the provisions of Article 2, where Article 191 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is mentioned, introducing the principle of the inusability in criminal proceedings of any statements obtained as a result of torture. This article is, in my humble opinion, an a priori protection for any coercive actions carried out by torture in order to obtain statements. However, I would like to stress that the text of the Convention defines torture as a behaviour requiring the involvement of an official (or public servant) while at the same time making it clear that any broader definitions do not affect the scope of the rule. This was the solution adopted by Parliament, thus reaching a reasonable compromise between positions which would otherwise be difficult to reconcile with each other, which would in fact have prevented the introduction of this crime in our legal system. Honestly, I would have preferred to have transposed the text of the Convention almost literally. In any case, as I said earlier, I think it is important that a very serious legal and civil gap is finally being filled. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress my personal opinion that the provisions that we are introducing into our criminal law are not and must not be used in an instrumental way to strike at our law enforcement agencies, which do their duty to defend the legality and security of citizens, working many times in the personal risk, in full respect of the law and constitutional guarantees of citizens. What we must bear in mind is the objective of the New York Convention against Torture, which was, and is, mainly directed at those countries which are governed by anti-democratic regimes and which, for this reason, practice largely on their own citizens physical ill-treatment and torture. Having said that, it is clear that the rules in our system, against behavior similar to torture practices, can be strengthened and it is in this logic that we must evaluate the vote that we will give to this measure. In conclusion, Mr President, introducing the crime of torture into our penal code means not only filling a particularly serious legislative gap, but also stopping pretending that our country has not had any such incidents. Here we are dealing with an issue that has enormous importance, especially international and must be addressed and discussed as a step forward in the civilization of the Italian people. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Tonini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u53	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we know very well that there are international conventions and agreements, which have been referred to several times and which must lead Italy to fulfil these agreements. However, the iter, even complex, of this law shows that the assertions that in many passages, is here in the Senate but then, later, also in the Chamber, the representatives of Forza Italia have made have their foundation. In many cases, even in the face of facts of news that have caused confusion and questions in one sense and another, having witnessed media trials, absolutions in the classrooms of justice and events that obviously have affected everyone - the tragic epilogue of lives is always a tragedy - there is no doubt that in the soul of many this law has been read several times as an act of mistrust, and I would not say hostility - but I could also say hostility - towards the police. The legitimate use of force is a sensitive issue, both in the Treaties and in UN agreements. A constitutional rule is being implemented. Italy repudiates war, but of course, if international organizations - and it has happened in the course of history, even recently - have decided to oppose dictatorships, invasions and decimations of peoples, it has participated in initiatives of this kind, where it is believed that there is a legitimate use of force, even the most extreme military one. And so in the field of law and order and public security are called to operate the police forces, sometimes even the Armed Forces, which are used peacefully, often to guard public places, courts or in the various operations "Safe roads" in Sardinia, Sicily and throughout the national territory. Let's say that nothing happens then, because - fortunately - the deterrent exerted by the presence and control of the territory causes those soldiers that we see, even coming out here from the Senate, at the corner of San Luigi dei Francesi or at Piazza Cavour, in front of the Palace of Justice, then do not legitimately use the force, because no one forces them to this, but they are there because, in theory, this could happen. And, therefore, both the police and the armed forces have this right. It is obvious that torture, of which we speak, is not allowed to anyone and neither does the legitimate use of force admit harassment and bullying. After that there is a grey area that does not concern events such as those that have been evoked, where there were then criminal judgments, even - ladies and gentlemen - in the absence of this law. We are talking about the fight against arbitrary violence, even more so against people in detention or detention, who are therefore entrusted to the public authority, who can hold them pending the establishment of responsibility. If then there is a conviction, it can hold them to greater reason for the atonement of the condemnation, but that person is already held and cannot be subjected to harassment, less than ever to violence. For this reason, many rules already allow us in our law to prevent the arbitrariness and the crimes - I can make a summary list of them - of beatings, injuries, private violence, threats, injustices, kidnapping or illegal arrest, with all the penalties provided for the undue limitation of personal freedom, the abuse of authorities against arrested or detained, searches or arbitrary personal inspections. In short, our code presents a range of rules and sanctions that prevent arbitrariness. This is so true that the events evoked, including that of Genoa, have seen, in the absence of this crime, trials, convictions and even extromissions - then time will tell us if right or wrong - even of the very high leaders of our police forces. Therefore, it is not that in the absence of this rule there is free will, there is state violence and torture. If we say that, we make a serious mistake. That is why the bill has returned from the modified Chamber of Deputies. There have also been further speeches from the rapporteur's point of view. Our Group will speak and there are still amendments that we have tabled. I would like to draw particular attention to the issues of security and police forces, and I would like to keep a fund of more perplexity than others, because I am wary of the intentions of some people. In fact, the combined provision of the rule on torture and that which has not been done on the identification numbers of police forces I would not want it to lead to a paralysis of public order actions, because then in public order action Italy in recent months has not experienced alarming moments, but there could be. It is true that all the issues of the degradation of life in cities, often linked to the spread of illegal immigration or common crime, also connect in some neighborhoods to public order. Often attempts are made to prevent the arrest of organized criminals in some parts of Italy, and not only in those where mafia, camorra and 'ndrangheta are stronger; it happened also in Rome. In those cases the execution of the arrest of a person becomes almost a public order problem: they rebelled neighborhoods, family, relatives. Even in those cases there is a limit to the use of force. But we want this text not to allow the paralysis of action, which sometimes has to be decided. If you want to arrest a camorrist and a neighborhood, an area, a district, a palace rebel, what must the state do? Come back the next day, when maybe that person got fugitive? Sometimes, therefore, it is also necessary to allow us to act forcefully. We believe that, in the drafting of this text, the technicality of the words that are used is fundamental in order to prevent, then, abuses and arbitrary uses of the rules lead to harassment of the police forces and not to what is right, that is to say to the protection of the person, also in public order. It is clear that if a policeman goes out on the street and gives a baton to one, it is an act of violence. But if someone is burning a car on the street or smashing windows - I'm talking about facts that, alas, have been part of Italian life and news - what does it do? Send an e-mail? You're making an invitation? Once in public order - I do not know if it is still used - the supreme manager, the highest able, had to put the tricolor band; the trumpet rings had to be played - I do not know if this is still foreseen in some legislation, it may have survived - to warn the unauthorized and violent protester: beware that now the State intervenes! I do not know if the tricolor band and the trumpet ring are used anymore, but, colleagues, be careful not to over-promote arbitrary complaints. We have not yet approved - and I hope it never happens - the standard on identification codes, but the arranged combination of the large written number on the helmet or the suit of the policeman or the carabiniere and a rule on ambiguous torture can lead the protester to say that the number 408 written on the suit did this and that other. There's been reports. I remember that once, on the occasion of a demonstration in Terni, a wound had been caused by the umbrella of a protester and not by the police. Yet, for days and days, we have witnessed recriminations against the police. So we lit a beacon on the risk of abuse. The rules that come from the Justice Commission are often the subject of a long debate in this House and are often also the cause of an inevitable debate, because of the impreciseness of some decisions, which we have seen, even recently, in other cases. We therefore call for further reflection. There are amendments by the rapporteur which we have appreciated and which are the result of the action that Senators Caliendo, Palma and others have taken in the Commission to introduce that reasonableness on the difference between abuses, which must not actually be committed, and the legitimate use of force to protect legality, public order, the execution of an arrest order against camorra. The limits are very sloppy. Here is the best undersecretary who, in recent days, during the discussion on another chapter, that of Article 41-a, replied by pointing out that the things that had been attributed to him were not true. I remember that, in my long parliamentary experience, when 41- bis was still in time, it was I - I was then in opposition to a central-left government - who proposed the extension of that measure; then the other parties and the government of the time joined, which I believe was chaired by D'Alema. Then our center-right governments made that rule stable and permanent, after the Constitutional Court had dealt with it; even in the cases of the most heinous mobsters, some claimed that there were minimal rights that were not to be denied to anyone. In that case too there was a problem of security, of connection with the outside and I am therefore very pleased with the 41-a and of having contributed to more delicate pages. I would remind you that even in the last parliamentary term, when I was a Parent Company, we have strengthened the 41-bis because the judiciary and the judiciary had called for a greater and more precise definition of the rules, in order to avoid the connection from the inside to the outside. Sometimes even what may seem vexatory (the partition glass or other things) is necessary to prevent crime from communicating from prison. On the issues of security, legality, public order, torture or even the rights of the prisoner there is a border that must never be crossed. The 41-bis rule is important because it prevents some of the ribs from still reproducing their chain of command. But, within the framework of the rules that I have already mentioned, I consider this rule - with good peace in the international treaties - ultronea. It can serve to combat torture in those absolutist countries, in dictatorships, where moreover they care about international conventions, trample them on and do everything and more, and this is not acceptable. We already have a large legislative system and criminal sanctions that has allowed us to carry out trials. I do not mention other topical cases, but a lot of them could be mentioned, and if there have been trials, it means that there are rules. Be careful, therefore, not to send a signal of preventive criminalization of the police and law enforcement forces, because statistically they are wrong politicians, doctors and can also mistake a member of the police force. What reality is perfect? No category is immune from error. However, in the internal debate of the institutions, but also in the country, many have found almost a sense of punishment and sanction. In those who wear a uniform we must not see the enemy to be overthrown, the bearer of violence and torture. Therefore, also on other issues such as the one concerning the identification codes, the pause for reflection, which lasted for a very long time, to avoid a paralysis of the action of security and contrast also with regard to expulsions and anything else, since the text has been partially modified. Some say that expulsion cannot be done, except that the government is more concerned with the entry and transport of illegal immigrants. I remember that yesterday 4,500 people arrived in one day, and then they come to give us the statistics of the Ministry of the Interior that speak of 170,000 arrivals in a year. Buy yourself a counter and look! The expulsions cannot be done - so much you do not do them under any circumstances - and in a whole series of cases you will find the pretext to say that in one case there are no guarantees of legality, in another there are no guarantees about torture. Attention, then. That part is also the subject of reflection. I have also proposed repealing amendments to the various articles, because I believe that not all of them are necessary. Therefore, in stating that all kinds of illegality must be sanctioned and punished, perhaps we should have considered our criminal order system sufficient. There are treaties to be fulfilled: let us do so without the ultronean rules that make the situation worse. Let us take the word for it, because many times in this parliamentary term we have seen measures come to this House on criminal matters which perhaps were better educated in the Commission. In all laws, in fact, a word can make a difference, but in criminal matters it is even more important. I therefore wish you every success in the completion of our work. If I am not mistaken, we are at the third reading and, therefore, there has been a broad debate in which the Senate has played an important role, so much so that there will be a fourth one. Evidently, the fulfillment of international treaties is not free from the wisdom of the legislator. We are all against torture and violence, but it is good to have in mind the legitimate use of force, the possibility of maintaining public order, not to discourage police personnel who are already unhappy with contracts, with the reorganization of careers, with a thousand frustrations for which there is no need to make a Commission of inquiry. Each of us finds members of the police forces on the street and can dialogue with them - as I have always done - and find a thousand reasons, some of which may be soothed by words, but others give a signal of a certain kind. I will conclude with a reference to the reflection which the Senate has contributed, is contributing and will contribute, because the text arrived from the Commission will have further amendments. I have tabled amendments which I hope will be adopted. The rapporteur has made a contribution and I hope that this will also lead the House and the whole of Parliament to reflect. Torture must be fought. The force of legality must not be paralysed. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u55	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u56	Mr President, this is a draft law of parliamentary initiative and - as has already been said in this House - we started from a text which had much clearer, clearer and even more focused content, consistent with what is contained in the international treaties to which we have acceded and to which we refer. Today we have a text, then amended to the House, which - in our opinion - has been greatly weakened by the last activity carried out in the Justice Commission with respect to its original purpose. We have and maintain, until we come to the examination of the amendments that we have also proposed to return to the original spirit of the project, trust that the necessary changes will be made. Moreover, this is one of the steps that must be taken in order for the article to be finally approved. Another passage will be made to the House and much of what it had established has been modified - in our opinion - for worse in the text that is proposed today for the approval of the Senate. What doesn't convince us? That's what Senator Manconi said before. We are not convinced by the idea behind the text that has been so strongly reduced by introducing formulas such as "reiterate violence" and "serious threats," changing the nature of the crime and in fact introducing a concept of cruelty that seems absolutely meaningless to us because of the crime and the crime that is being punished. Torture itself provides for cruelty. There's no need for specification. Torture is final cruelty, scientifically used and used. There's a story about torture. Torture has a history behind it of deep injustices and guilt attributable to States and, above all, to a certain type of State. It is no coincidence that in this Senate, a few days ago, a great debate took place on an amendment that we have all called a Regen amendment. An authoritarian state, guilty of action against an Italian citizen, innocent in every respect, used torture in the idea of extorting information with violence. What could be more cruel than the awareness of using an instrument of violence against a person to extort information or to impose behavior? Each specification is particularly incomprehensible because it seems defensive. It's some kind of non-petitious excusatio. As I believe that it can happen in the context of the behaviour of the State, even of our State, an action of violence of such a nature, I begin to introduce a series of specifications and adjectives that must place me in a position to defend myself. It's a non-petitious excusatio. And this kind of attitude is worrying. I think there's all the room to intervene and correct it. We all live in a difficult world. We all want to defend the best living conditions we have won. We all believe that personal freedoms are something sacred that we cannot put in absolute danger. We all know what has happened in human history, even in Europe and beyond. I am always pleased to recall a story, which concerns a young Sardinian, trade unionist from the port of Buenos Aires, who went to Argentina with the family to work, who made his way in his business, so much to be recognized - called El Tano the porters of Buenos Aires - as a guide. The members of the military junta were sentenced to life imprisonment by an Italian court and for them the extradition procedure was initiated, because they committed a serious crime against him: it was in fact a torture, until the last. Mastinu was a young Sardinian trade unionist in Buenos Aires, who was thrown alive by an airplane, as it was used to do against opponents of that fascist regime. It was a case of torture, carried to the last extreme consequence, in all its capacity for violence, against her and her family members, to obtain their arrest, until the moment of its execution, carried out in an ambiguous, hidden and cowardly manner. The offence of torture must be introduced as a rightful recognition and as an act of condemnation of these ways of acting by States. And I do not say that because I think this concerns our operators: on the contrary, I am convinced of the opposite. When I say that there is no need to justify ourselves, I say that we are convinced that our operators, the operators of the Forces of Order and Justice, have thus matured the democratic spirit and respect for human rights that are not concerned, if not in an episodic and rare deviation, with this case. [[Call the president back.]] In conclusion, Mr President, this is an act of condemnation of this kind of culture, which is also practiced in other countries. In fact, our country is entitled to demand justice for its citizens, who have suffered violence in other places, if it itself has a legal provision that that condemnation makes explicit and unequivocal. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL, PD and Senator Mussini Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u57	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u58	Mr President, I would like to begin with a quotation. In 1972 Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa said: "Italy can survive the loss of Aldo Moro but cannot survive the introduction of torture." In these simple words there is the absolute and most shared statement of the incompatibility between torture and democracy. The crime of torture, in short, is the most serious form of degeneration of an authority in violence, of a power in will. The introduction of this crime has been expected for too many years in our system, and it is all the more necessary and urgent to do so now, now, on the eve of the referendum on the most damaging constitutional reforms in the history of the Republic. It is an additional reason, in short, to make it soon; a reason that is added to the need to fulfil the obligations that our country has been notoriously failing for over thirty years. On the substance of the changes that have taken place in the Justice Commission to the Senate, I note that they have been largely shared by us. The text received from the Chamber had to be changed. We in the House abstained on that text, although we were and still are among the most convinced of the need to introduce this crime into our legal system. We abstained because that text introduced very difficult probative limits for the detection of the crime, with the predictable consequence that it would have been difficult, if not impossible, in the trial, to arrive at the detection of the crime of torture. I am referring in detail to the need to demonstrate the intentionality of the conducts. In the case, for example, of Federico Aldrovandi, there is no doubt that there has been torture, having been the victim of as many as 54 repeated acts of violence. But it would hardly be possible to demonstrate the intention of inflicting torture. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Did you read the sentence? THE COURT (PD). Shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, you were able to intervene. Now let Senator Cappelletti intervene. Mr Fornaro (PD). Learn to listen to others. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). There's a sentence. Look at the sentence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, if we were to judge the contents here... Please continue, Senator Cappelletti. Mr Capelletti (M5S). Then, it should have been proved that the fact of the public officer had taken place with abuse of power. It is clear that this could not be the case, but this additional evidence would make it more complex to ascertain the fact by the magistrate. Again, it would have been necessary to ascertain whether the tortured person had been entrusted to his torturer, or subject to his authority, supervision and custody: elements that are difficult to prove, even in a case as well-known as the facts that happened to Diaz. To these critical issues - reported by the 5 Star Movement to the Chamber - the Senate Justice Commission has responded appropriately by amending the text substantially. There are, however, other problems, which could easily be remedied by simply recovering our amendments. It does not convince - for example - the term "reiterate" refers to serious violence and threats. It is well known, in fact, that Article 1 of the UN Convention on Torture refers to the individual act of violence. Similarly, it does not convince the term "verifiable" referring to psychic trauma, so the harm to victims of violence will follow the humiliation of a visit with the psychiatrist. We also call for inhuman or degrading treatment of human dignity to be included in the list of behaviors liable to be a crime of torture. I recall that this forecast had already been approved by the Senate Justice Commission and also by the Senate Assembly in the previous reading. Finally, if we do not want the torture proceedings to be added to the number of more than 1.5 million trials required by the entry into force of the former Cirielli, it is appropriate to consider the doubling of the limitation periods. In conclusion, we must make a just, necessary and urgent law, but we must also make a law that is effective. For this reason, I invite everyone, Government, Assembly, rapporteurs, to pay particular attention to the critical issues highlighted. Moreover - as I have already said - they would be easily surpassable with the adoption of the amendments tabled by our Group, also in view of the fact that the measure under consideration can no longer afford further corrective measures and, therefore, further shuttles between the House and the Senate. It's been a long time. Now it is time, on the contrary, to speed up and we must do so for Stefano Cucchi, Giuseppe Uva, Aldo Bianzino, Federico Aldrovandi and for the many who are still victims of torture in our country today... GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). All acquitted! Mr Capelletti (M5S). We must do so so that this shame, unworthy of a civilized country, never again should be repeated. For this reason, we have to hurry. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Ma'am, throw him out! Senator Giovanardi interrupted us three times!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u59	I called Senator Giovanardi using the bell. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] Senator Giovanardi, please, everyone, if he does not exceed, can say what he wants. It is then up to those who listen, both in this House and outside. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u62	CARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the disappearance of Sisinio Zito, who for five legislatures has animated the work of this House, representing Calabria masterfully. Senator Zito, originally from the beautiful Roccella Jonica, has been Under-Secretary of State several times during his long political career, as well as President of the Senate Health Commission from 1987 to 1991. Politician and proud Calabrian, has never harmed judgments and advice, always wise and punctual. Unforgettable his commitment as mayor of Roccella Jonica, a city that has valorized with initiatives of the highest cultural and social value, making it a real pearl of the queen coast and of the whole Mediterranean. His commitment as a politician and administrator must be an example for all those who intend to make their territory the only reason for their political activity. To the whole family of Sisinio Zito I express my affection and my sincere closeness and I do so in this House where, for a long time, Senator Zito made his voice heard, helping to animate the parliamentary work. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Campanella and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u63	Thank you, Senator Caridi. Frankly, I am sorry that the intervention was made at the end of the sitting, because it would perhaps have been more appropriate to recall this disappearance at the beginning of the sitting, as has already happened. In any case, the Presidency supports his remembrance and condolences.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u66	ZIZA (CoR). Mr President, my speech is in support of the workers of Santa Teresa SpA, a wholly public company owned by the Province of Brindisi. As you all know, there is now a great economic difficulty in all Italian Provinces. I would like to highlight and express my Group's solidarity with all 122 workers who, since this morning, occupy the entrance of the headquarters of the Province. The question is very serious and lies in the fact that there is no prospect for the solution of the employment problem of the families involved and the cuts that the Government has done to the detriment of the Province have increased the problem even more. In expressing solidarity with the workers, I hope that the Region of Puglia, together with all the parliamentarians, both by majority and opposition, will soon put in place a project to solve the problem of the work of 122 people who, in the coming weeks, will be able to receive a letter of dismissal. We must not get to this, working together to find a solution, as happened in other Italian Provinces. I am thinking of Sicily, Calabria and the many other Italian regions where workers have not been dismissed. I hope that the Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the whole Government will convene a table for the solution of the important problem concerning the society Santa Teresa of the Province of Brindisi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u69	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, just now in the Senate of the Republic, just a few metres from this House, in the Koch room, the 17th annual event of the multinational Ericsson took place. The title chosen for the initiative is: "Young people, innovation, growth", noble and encouraging title. Too bad that in Italy Ericsson, these days, is doing everything the other way around. With what courage can we talk about young people, innovation and growth, when, on 13 June, in the Ericsson plants, a mobility procedure was opened for 302 workers and 30 managers? And this for 2016, plus another 53 within the first six months of 2017. Congratulations on the concept of development! For several years Ericsson has not even had an industrial plan for Italy in the medium term. Ericsson has opened 13 mobility procedures since 2007 and continues to disinvest in R &amp; D in our country. The company is bringing many skilled and trained workers to their knees. And we're gonna put the red carpets on them? An emblematic case is the research center of Pisa, in my Tuscany, where the strategic objectives are precisely to develop new concepts of system, test new technologies, as well as develop prototypes of advanced systems. There, Mr President, the massacre has already begun. In order to face the crisis in Ericsson, a table was proposed at MISE. The Deputy Minister for Economic Development, Mrs. Teresa Bellanova, with confidence wrote on Twitter: The table on Ericsson's crisis is convened at MISE on Wednesday, June 22nd. A serious company would of course have made itself available. However, the top management of the company has torn the commitment, they have thought well to snubbe the Italian workers and institutions, making us feel their colony. It is a very serious case, a loss to the national and regional institutions involved and above all a serious affront to the workers, who for years, with their work, contribute to the success of this multinational in Italy. Events in the square have taken place in the last days in Genoa, where the workers wonder with concern what will become of their future. Nothing concrete has been proposed for them and for the actual implementation of the so-called Erzelli plan, but trying to preserve - Ericsson certainly - the profit and access to European funds (yes, they know how to do it well). After investing in our country, Ericsson is gradually, but inexorably reducing his presence in Italy. In this situation, Mr President, which I find very serious, I disagree with those who think they can use institutions as a footbridge or as a location for their own events. Palazzo Madama is first and foremost the home of Italian citizens. Mr President, we are not yet a colony of world economic powers. Please report it to Mr. Renzi and Senator Napolitano. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Ericsson's attitude, which deserted the MISE meeting, is a very serious fact. But even more serious is the behaviour of those who, as vice president of the Senate Gasparri and Minister Poletti, have opened the doors of Palazzo Madama to the top Ericsson without assessing the consequences. Next time they go in front of the factories, facing the workers on the move, and they announce, as a few minutes ago declared Minister Giannini, who is in anticipation of incorporating, in the near future, 5% of trainees, probably disposable. We will then see whether the workers will be happy to be fired to give way and acquire new workforce at the lowest price and less protection. They fire 385 people with decent contracts to resume 200 disposables. Mr President, as always, this government shows itself to be weak with the strong and strong with the weak. Renzi, be quiet. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u70	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-655.ana.u71	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday, July 7, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.50 p.m.
