ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on initiatives to strengthen the banking system and on developments and prospects in public finance, to which the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Padoan, will respond. Notice that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to questions about initiatives to strengthen the banking system. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u6	Mr Fornaro (PD). Mr President, Minister, in recent days the Governor of the Bank of Italy, Ignazio Visco, has pointed out that corrective measures must be found to enable savers to become fully aware of the new regime and to direct their investment choices on the basis of the changed scenario. I would therefore ask you whether there is any real room in your view for amending the European legislation which provides for the bail in and, in particular, whether there is the possibility of introducing changes in the transitional period. The second question with regard to this issue is whether the Government considers sufficient the current level of information given by banks on the new rules in force from 1 January and whether the Government intends to prepare its own campaign on the new rules, aimed at savers. The second issue I wanted to have your opinion on is the issue of bad bank or, better, the issue of managing the mass of deteriorated loans in the banking system. It has been read in these days of the creation, through a decree, of vehicles with State guarantee on senior bonds at market rate. The market response, however, was objectively negative compared to the first information. I therefore ask you when will the decree establishing the bad bank or any of these vehicles be approved and if, compared to the initial announcements, there will be further changes in the application of the state guarantee that you had announced at the time, i.e. if there will be greater incisiveness than the issue of guarantees, in order to be able to give a response to the markets as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u9	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, the annus horribilis of the Italian banking system seems to have no end: four popular banks in central Italy have failed, thousands of citizens have seen their savings disappear, heavy shadows of conflict of interest have thickened on the Government, distrust in the supervisory system and the fear of the citizens seem irreversible, in recent weeks the markets have dramatically rejected the interventions proposed by the Government. We would not wish that from the latter and, in particular, from what provides for the possibility of disposing of the debts in distress of the entire banking system (the so-called bad guys' bank) were determined heavy and negative reflections on the real economy of the country and an increase of an already unsustainable credit crunch on small and medium-sized enterprises. This happened, in the same situation, in the case of the Banco di Napoli, when in the 12,000 billion of old lire of credits disembedded in the "bank of the bad guys" they also merged non-suffering credits, especially of small and medium-sized enterprises, of farmers, of artisans, of individual enterprises, which, although assisted by large assets, suddenly found themselves at the door the inexorable collectors of the companies that had purchased the credits. In relation to this, what are the measures that the Government intends to put in place (control on the effective incapience of debtors, on the posthumous inscription to suffering of some credits and so on) to avoid the repetition of those modalities? Ways which would have a negative impact on the balance of an economic and social fabric such as the Italian one, largely based on small and medium-sized enterprises, perhaps little capitalised compared to European ones, but certainly productive and which have absolute need of bank intermediaries close to the territories and sensitive to their needs. With reference to market developments, do you not think that the downward collapse can hide speculative strategies that would benefit only the large groups that already advance to buy and concentrate the credit institutions already in decoction and then purified by the "banks of the bad guys"? And finally, do you not think that the government and Parliament should intervene urgently on a supervisory system that has shown resounding inefficiencies even though it is the most expensive in Europe?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u12	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, Minister, in the wake of the efforts to strengthen the banking system, we ask you whether the Government does not consider it essential to proceed, as soon as possible, towards a clear separation between business banks and commercial banks, including by anticipating the current Community legislation in line with Regulation No 43 of 2014. This separation would, in fact, prevent the risk of systemic contagion that the crisis of interconnected banks carries with it, even taking note of the evidence that not always the larger banks have proved more efficient but, on the contrary, an excessive dimensional level has ended up burdening the credit institutions with additional burdens, rather than reducing the risk. The separation of banking activities would make it possible to better safeguard citizens' savings, not least because it would eliminate internal conflicts of interest to credit institutions that carry out both savings collection and investment activities and would also encourage the allocation of resources to the real economy, to the detriment of speculative activities that have contributed to the hypertrophy of financial markets. There is already an attempt by the European Commission to regulate this issue, but there are many derogations that could neutralise its objectives. We would also like to know if and how the Italian Government intends to intervene in order to amend in a more stringent way the Community Regulation n. 43 of 2014 and to speed up its approval process.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u15	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Minister, in the context of initiatives to strengthen the banking system, we are asking very clearly how we intend to move on the supervisory system, because in the last resounding cases that have been brought to the attention of the chronicles and especially of the poor savers to us it seems that we have identified with particular certainty a very strong lack of supervision system. Let me give you a very clear example by returning to the sufferings of banks such as CariChieti, CariFerrara, Banca Marche and Banca Etruria. On the basis of what data and what expert reports has been reported the value of 17.6 percent of the suffering recorded in the budget (between 40% and 44 percent among others), when you know perfectly well, like all of us, from press reports that just a few days before the Commissariat took place on 11 February 2015 of the Etruria People's Bank had received an offer from the British investment fund Anacap, to buy about two billion euros of suffering at a price between 29 and 32 percent of the nominal value? In this way, even with a median valuation between 17.6 and 28 per cent, all expropriated bondholders, including small shareholders, could in fact be reimbursed with revenue of 860 million euros. I have made this example because it is clear to everyone that, on the initiative of the Commissioners of the Bank of Italy, this type of assessment has obviously been made, so it has absolutely not, not only before but also after, guaranteed the possibility of preserving the interests of small savers. It is a terrible year for our banking system and, more importantly, we strongly ask you what initiatives you intend to take with regard to the supervisory system.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u18	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr Minister, in taking note of your continued statements on the soundness of the Italian banking system, I cannot fail to take into account the worrying developments of the Italian stock exchange. Since the beginning of January, the general index of securities - the FTSE MIB - has lost around 14% of its value and the index of banks has lost around 24%. There's obviously something that doesn't work. They have undoubtedly weighed on the events that have affected some credit institutions. Vicende on which the Senate has already intervened, but also weigh the new European rules on bail in, which, as is known, risk involving the same savers, who have no responsibility in the management of individual credit institutions, nor tools to control its management, in the eventual failure, with possible loss of deposits beyond 100,000 euros. The introduction of these new rules is determining a small cataclysm, with savers withdrawing their savings, especially from the less capitalised banks (but not even the larger ones are free from this risk) and a very strong increase in postal deposits, in the presumption that that institution, still public, cannot fail; some put their savings under the mattress. In short, the worm of doubt has crept into the minds of many people, who run to the shelter of an improvised DIY. The bag perceives these moods and adjusts accordingly. Recently, the Governor of the Bank of Italy himself expressed reservations about the way in which this new regulation came about, receiving wands from the European Commission, which once again demonstrated - if need be - its total insensitivity. I believe that the Government should make its voice heard, reminding Brussels that in Italy there is an article 47 of the Constitution that protects, in a specific form, Italian savings, and that therefore the same European regulations cannot easily circumvent this constraint. If someone has given his consent in the past, it is only wrong and it is time to provide.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u21	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr Minister, following the transposition of a European directive, the so-called bail in was recently incorporated into our legal system by the Renzi Government, a solution for any bank crisis that primarily affects shareholders, bondholders and account account account account account account account account account holders with a balance of more than 100,000 euros. On 30 January last, the Governor of the Banca d'Italia, Ignazio Visco, put forward the proposal for a revision of the directive proposing a postponement of its application. The Governor has argued that in introducing this delicate change at European level, insufficient attention has been paid to the transition phase, since, as is actually happening, it could have posed risks to the financial stability of our country. On the contrary, a transitional period would have allowed both banks and savers to adapt to an instrument outside our legal system and with such significant effects. The saving share of Italian households invested in bonds is significantly higher than in other euro area countries. The confidence of savers in the banking system has already collapsed as a result of government decisions in crisis management involving four resolution banks. The new bail in legislation seems to be the main cause of the strong instability of the financial markets of this period, which only last week saw losses of between 5% and 8%. The Mount of the Paschi of Siena was the most affected institute and came to yield 16 percent. The situation is worrying and seems to be underestimated by the inertia and immobility of the Government. In view of these considerations, the Minister is asked whether he does not believe that it was a serious mistake that the Italian Government has transposed the legislation of the bail before our banking system was ready to transpose it and therefore does not consider it necessary to obtain in the appropriate European fora the postponement of its application.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u24	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, Minister, the government's decision, that famous decree-law n. 183 of 2015, then incorporated into the law of stability, in fact decreed in advance the application of the so-called bail in, transposing the famous directive of the European Council of 15 May 2014, against which, on the occasion of the vote in this House, when it touched on the Senate the transposition of Community law, some voices arose, including ours. That decision, which in our opinion was the result of a one-year negotiation, but which then, in haste and fury, had to see the light of a solution proposed by the Italian Government, did not have the necessary insights. It is clear today that the provisions contained in these measures have created and will continue to fuel dangerous mistrust among savers, with a clear serious systemic risk. For these reasons we ask whether the Government does not intend to reconsider - in a harmonised European framework, which sees us at least treated like others - the recently approved bail rules, which have not adequately considered the risks involved, using a provision that already contains the possibility of revision, on the basis of what even the Governor of the Bank of Italy said, according to which, among other things, for the implementation of the bail in would have been preferable a gradual and less traumatic step; and the Bank of Italy said this in time. The enormous mass of deteriorated loans, which would require a more careful assessment, is responsible for fueling mistrust in the banking system. In fact, it is necessary to distinguish gross sufferings net of provisions, collateral constituting guarantees and real escutibility, in order to defend ourselves from that speculation that we see in action these days on the Italian banking system, which is the most striking demonstration of how the world's financial markets, look with great interest, and aggressively from real locusts (as they say in jargon), to the great deal of Italian suffering. The European Central Bank and the European institutions as a whole are contributing to this risk - whether they want it or not, consciously or not - and we demand lightning times for the resolution of the issue of the four banks, for example, by favouring, knowingly or not, precisely those "locusts" that want to break down on Italian banks. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Padoan.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u25	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for the many questions they have asked, which enable me to go further on this issue. The Italian banking sector in recent weeks has been affected, as has been noted by many, by the volatility that has affected global markets. The presence of impaired loans in the balance sheets of banking companies, to a greater extent than elsewhere, is pointed out as the factor that is penalising the banking sector. However, the orientation of the markets seems - not only to me, but to many independent analysts - not commensurate with the economic reality of the Italian banks, which in many respects are safer than those of other countries. Italian banks are much less exposed to emerging economies than derivatives and the real estate sector, which has triggered the crisis even in some European economies. The debate over the past few weeks has focused on the figure of EUR 201 billion in suffering, but it is worth remembering, as Senator Bonfrisco has just done, that this is not the value that weighs on the bank's balance sheets, because devaluations and provisions have already been made to cover this exposure. Net suffering today amounts to approximately €88 billion, not €201 billion. This exposure value corresponds to a level of guarantees, again above the European average. The same leverage indices place our credit institutions in a position of advantage over that of other eurozone countries. The Italian banking system is solid and in the worst years of the economic situation has dealt with the consequences of the crisis without resorting to the substantial state aid made available to taxpayers from other countries of the European Union; a practice however prohibited from 1 August 2013. It should of course be remembered that persistent volatility in the financial market is a consequence of, among other things, oil prices and the easing of emerging economies; this framework pushes down all markets and, within them, the banking sector is affected everywhere. In any case, the Government is working to resolve this situation, and to strengthen the banking system and the economy at two levels: a European and a national level. At European level, the Government continues to support in the Ecofin Council the process of completing the banking union, for the introduction, as soon as possible, of the missing deposit protection pillar. Italy is working to ensure that the European Deposit Protection Scheme respects a principle of balance between the two guidelines on which the debate is polarising: the orientation to risk sharing and that to risk reduction. Our position is that both must be present with equal dignity and strength. On the other hand, as is well known, the other components of the banking union have already been introduced. In particular, the resolution rules in force in the Member States with effect from 1 January 2016, and approved by the Italian Government in November 2013, are aimed at not downloading to the public accounts - and therefore to the taxpayers - the costs of rescuing possible failures; a purpose in line with the objective of increasing financial stability. However, in this transitional phase, we are experiencing an increase in instability rather than stability. There is a need for a transitional phase, as many of you have called for, which should be accompanied by measures that make available tools to address individual problems and that can affect individual banking institutions, and at the same time prevent limited crises - and therefore focused or localised on individual institutions, even if of small size - from having systemic effects, given the peculiar nature of the good credit. In this transition phase, it is of course important to raise awareness on the saver market and to ensure that the information provided to savers in acquiring excessively risky activities is actually transparent and timely. The revision of the bail in regime, foreseen by 2018 by European regulations, provides a useful opportunity to improve the system along these lines. At European level, as one honourable Member has raised, there is also discussion of the separation between business banks and commercial banks, which, as is well known, was, for example, introduced in other countries outside the euro area in some variations. However, I have to say that a solution soon appears problematic and this is because each Member State is inclined to defend national specificities, which are often difficult to reconcile. In this context, Italy is in favour of distinguishing roles in the sector, but it is also characterized, compared to other countries, by a lower pressure because our banks do not have a significant component of investment activity and for this reason they also present a lower risk than other countries. At national level, the Government has followed a structural strategy at different levels. The first concerns the consolidation of the banking sector. On this axis we have intervened with the reform of the major popular banks, the reform of the banking foundations, the next reform of the cooperative credit banks. Larger, stronger and more transparent banks will manage deteriorated loans more efficiently. We have given the major popular banks more than adequate time to transform and evaluate the necessary and appropriate aggregations. It is now time for shareholders and managers to win perplexities on this front and adapt to the needs of a market and regulatory environment that requires very different dimensions. The second level on which the Government intervened concerns the reduction of debt recovery times, usually higher in Italy than elsewhere. The implementation of the telematic civil process of the courts and companies is producing important results: in 2015 a first revision of the competition procedures was introduced and other measures are being introduced. These interventions reduce debt recovery costs and improve the potential price of impaired loans in the event of a transfer. Let me quote, before concluding, the questions raised by the interrogators on the issue of burden sharing. I would like to point out that the procedure applied to the so-called four banks is not the bail in but the application of burden sharing, which imposes important but much less serious burdens than the bail in procedure, which has been in force since 1 January this year, could entail. I would remind you that the intervention on the four banks has made it possible to fully safeguard deposits, bank employment and loans to a very large number of companies. Finally, in this context, the guarantee instrument for the securitisation of suffering is inserted and integrated, so not a bad bank, which is a guarantee that the Treasury will sell to operators in the framework of securitisation operations that have as underlying non-performing loans. Guarantees can be requested by banks that securitisation and give way to suffering against the payment of a commission to the Treasury. The price of the guarantee is on the market, as the European Commission also acknowledged, which agrees that the scheme does not include State aid. The presence of the public guarantee will facilitate the financing of operations for the disposal of suffering and will have no impact, neither on the public debt nor on the deficit; it will be reinforced by measures to shorten the recovery time and will in turn support its effectiveness. From this point of view, I am not entirely convinced that the market acceptance of this measure is entirely negative. What the markets publicly say is that it is an instrument that is added to a set of existing instruments (from this point of view adds value to the effectiveness of the system); moreover, they expect, not immediately but in the medium term, that is what is necessary to take account of the suffering, important results.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u28	Mr Fornaro (PD). Minister, I would like to draw attention to one aspect. You rightly pointed out, and it is absolutely acceptable, that the fundamentals of Italian banks are solid. However, I believe that from this point of view we must work in the two directions that you have indicated: firstly, in Europe, so that we can also understand the peculiarity and specificity of the Italian banking system, also in relation to the application of the new rules. Therefore, this transition phase should be strengthened and the revision of the legislation should hopefully be anticipated from the date of 2018. Alongside this, I absolutely agree that the issue of deposit guarantee is the third leg absolutely fundamental, because at the moment there is a crisis of confidence on the part of savers in the banking system. Finally, I would like to make one final point. What you described and the numbers provided would not be determined by the behaviour of the markets of the last ten days. We must note that a clear speculative attack is taking place and when there are attacks of this size, I believe that we must also consider non-ordinary measures to curb speculation, because a few more days with these losses of bank courses and we will have some credit institutions that will not only buy themselves at real estate prices but that will risk having problems with the parameters, which you know well, dictated by the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u31	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, what you have told us absolutely does not escape the fears we have pointed out in the premise. The credit crunch on small and medium-sized enterprises will only grow through the phenomenon of guaranteed but uncontrolled securitisation and through the growth of the size of the banking system without reference to the credit system, that is to say the real economy of the country. Banks are not the country's economy, they are a means and support for the country's economy; the fact that banks are bad means that the real economy is bad and the fact that they have a separate treatment, without considering the reasons of the economy, means that the gap will widen between those who have the possibility to give credit and those who desperately try to access it without succeeding.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u34	BOTTICS (M5S). Minister, you have put your hands on the reform of the people, but you do not take the responsibility of putting your hand on banking separation to protect Italian citizens for fear of Europe. That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u37	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the Minister did not answer me at all on a very specific question that I had raised, namely on the basis of which calculations and assessments an assessment of the suffering of the Etruria Bank had been made. It was an example to say that, in this way, it increases even more the distrust of citizens and savers towards the banking system because there is no real, clear and serious strengthening of the supervisory role that should be to guarantee not generically of the banking system outside the context, but of savers and business citizens. This, if it is not clear to everyone, will increase even more, given what is happening in the stock exchanges these days, the total distrust of citizens and savers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u40	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, Minister, to return to the Gentile reform, to give you a vote, you can only take between 5 and 6 (say a 6-), because the litmusol map is given by the behaviour of the Italian savers who are taking the money away from the banks to take them to post offices (there is the line: tens of thousands); some then put them under the mattress, as our grandmothers did because they do not trust. Therefore, the government is doing its own and that is why it has almost enough, but citizens do not trust it because it takes more courage. This government, which wants reforms to do them, has its bridles inside, in its majority, which prevent it from making those full reforms that would be needed at this time. Obviously it is a government that has almost the sufficiency; it does not have the serious insufficiency (between 3 and 4) that had the government Monti-Severino-Fornero or the government Tremonti-Berlusconi, that had between 4 and 5. He's got more courage, but he needs more. We therefore believe that, if he manages to get rid of those maximalist and fundamentalist bridles, perhaps he would be able to have the consent of Italy and Italians from an economic point of view.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u43	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am not satisfied with the Government's response: too many promises, too many commitments but little results. In the current phase of our country's life we are losing all our certainty from day to day. There is no longer any certainty of having continuous work that will enable us to maintain our family dignifiedly. The recovery of the economy is a fantasy of President Renzi and unemployment does not seem to decrease significantly. There is no longer the certainty of reaching a decent pension because of the wretched Fornero law that the government insists on not wanting to change. Here, to all these uncertainties is added the fear of seeing, from evening to morning, the savings of a lifetime disappear. The crisis management of the four banks was shameful and tomorrow the same fate, with the rules you have endorsed, could involve hundreds of thousands more Italian families. The Government's choices have seriously undermined the trust relationship between banks and savers. No, Minister, we are not satisfied. The country described by the Renzi Government is not the real country. The everyday life of Italians is characterized by concerns and uncertainties that you, unfortunately, do not know how to answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u46	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I would ask you to be able to give us some further details, also in the future, of the time which I have called for as a fundamental factor in a good resolution of the problem of the four banks, which is very useful to us to avoid other systemic risks. Then I am convinced that the forms of guarantee envisaged must improve the placement of suffering on the market; if, instead, they will limit themselves to senior tranches and will not also intervene on the others the measures that the Government will issue risk not producing any results. Not to mention the contradiction on the issue of the price of the guarantee, a topic already debated and discussed that allows the government, perhaps, to say "we solved the practice" but will prevent any real solution of the problem. If you do not deal with these two nodes, time and price, the solution will not be there.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u47	Let us now turn to questions about developments and prospects in public finance, to which Minister Padoan will respond.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u50	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, Minister, the recent Stability Act has defined the main indicators of our economy, both as regards the structural deficit and the postponement to 2018 of the budget balance, as well as the programmatic deficit, flexibility and growth rate. In the light of this, I would like to ask you: firstly, a prediction of the state of affairs on whether or not the European Commission confirms the flexibility of 0.2% for expenditure on migrants and refugees; secondly, a confirmation - if it is able to give it - of the decommissioning of the safeguard clauses of May 2016, in the light of the positive development of voluntary disclosure; finally, an assessment of the consequences of the slowdown in the economy at international level, both on real growth and on inflation, and ultimately on the expected growth of gross domestic product. Specifically, I would like to know whether these repercussions can put at risk the respect of public finance balances (I refer in particular to the deficit figure estimated at 1.1 percent in 2017) and, another key point, the downward ratio between public debt and GDP (which is expected to fall to 131.4 in 2016). If that happens, I would like to know what actions are planned to avoid it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u53	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, in all our speeches we have warned the Government against adopting deficit measures, especially if they do not produce structural results of economic growth. Since the very first decree-law of 2014 (that of the so-called bonus of 80 euros) the Renzi government has, on the contrary, increased the recourse of the State to the market of the loans increasing the pillar of the public debt. The debt rose from 2,107 billion euros in February 2014 to 2,211 euros in November 2015. In less than two years, 104 billion more. Instead of aiming to reduce public debt, the current burden of which has fallen but only thanks to favourable exogenous factors, measures have been taken which have led to further growth; with the risk that if the rate were to rise to the average value of the last ten years (2.66 per cent) it would result in about 2.75 billion more burdens and it could be considered definitively lost the opportunity that the international markets have provided to reduce its overall weight on the state budget. In addition, the manoeuvres adopted have had almost no effect on GDP growth, even less than the benefits of reducing the price of oil and the exchange rate between the dollar and the euro. It is now certain that the European Union, as confirmed yesterday by the Parliamentary Budget Office, will not accept either the so-called migrant clause or the requests for flexibility made by the Italian Government, and it has already established that Italy can only apply until December 2017 the mechanism of splitting public administration payments. Since she has said that the public debt in 2016 will mark the beginning of a downward path, do we ask her if the commitments for almost five billion euros related to what she said in the premise will be covered with further recourse to debt? In the three-year period 2017-2019 there are safeguard clauses for around 56 billion, with increases in VAT and excise duty, which will make the tax burden on citizens and businesses permanently unsustainable. How does the government intend to intervene in this regard? With further recourse to debt, as did the Stability Act for 2016?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u56	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, the content of the distance confrontation between the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, and the Italian Government on the issue of the flexibility of public finances is very much concerned. In these days, you yourself have spoken of the absolute compatibility between the government's economic policy and public finances and you have reiterated that there is a focus on structural reforms and public investment that will allow flexibility clauses to be used. The European Commission expects to judge the 2016 maneuver by April-May, with Italy demanding 16 billion euros of flexibility for reforms and investments, but it is likely to get less than 13 billion. Mr Juncker argued that the flexibility elements introduced by the European Commission in the interpretation of the Stability Pact are largely sufficient for all countries. Renzi is trying to use the situation of instability in the Mediterranean area as a means of forcing the Commission's decisions and trying to push away the sure failure of its economic policy over time. I am referring to the 231 million for Turkey, the migrant clauses, the defence of the southern European borders, up to the ever more probable and invoked military intervention in Libya by many. Meat in exchange for silverware, you know. I'm asking you. Are we playing the massacre only in an internal key or are these the cards also on the European tables? Does absolute compatibility have a more solid basis than Mediterranean instability? I would ask you to explain your position and, as a representative of the Government, to make some clarity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u59	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, already in the discussion of the stability law, we have expressed concern - and I believe it was also shared by you - about the development of the international economy, with particular reference to the slowdowns in China, the situation of a deep political crisis and not only of the Middle East area, particularly as regards Syria but also North Africa, and, last but not least, the very aggressive speculative manoeuvres towards the banking system, particularly the national one. We had expressed concerns about the validity of the parameters with which the financial maneuver was prepared for the three-year period 2016-2018. Today we would like to understand: if you consider these parameters still valid; if you expect that there can be a review of these parameters shortly - I think anyway before the summer - if the change of parameters, and therefore of the expectations regarding the financial maneuver prepared by the State, will have a negative reflection, especially on the local economies and in particular those of the Mezzogiorno and the islands; if this reflection can be profoundly negative against the possible, already quite timid, support for private investments and development in those areas of the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u62	Mr Barani (AL-A). Minister, the President of the Council, Mr Renzi, has long been engaged in a hard-won with the European Commission. The Italian Government rightly claims greater flexibility after the catastrophic choice of austerity by those who preceded it or those who wanted to precede it (I am talking about Letta, Monti and Bersani). I think it is right to continue along this path to push Europe not to close its eyes to the risks of resurgent populism, both right and left (in Legist, Pentastellated, Forced and Vendolian Italy) which could lead to a very dangerous political and institutional regression. Moreover, Italy has long started a reform process that is indispensable to increase the sustainability of its economy. Dangers and contradictions, however, are not lacking and on these elements could leverage those who would further condition our country, forcing it into a situation of subalternity. That is why we must be very careful and careful in defining the indispensable measures for relaunching our economy. It is necessary to be rigorous, that is to say, to avoid the individual measures which may appear to be a new chapter of policy aimed exclusively at the expansion of public expenditure, which is often unproductive. We have touched these dangers with hand in the course of the debate on that law of stability which will be examined by the European Commission in the coming days, where too many rules have been the result of difficult mediations within the Democratic Party and whose contradictions have been overcome only by loosening, many times over measure, the strings of the stock exchange. This must not be repeated, not only in order to avoid negative judgments from the outside, but also because of the difficulties we are going to face in the course of the year, and especially next year, when action will be taken to avoid those increases in VAT and excise duties provided for by the legislation in force; large amounts that are likely to lead to a huge increase in an already intolerable tax burden and which must be neutralized by means of a more careful use of existing resources. This is a feasible objective, but on a precise condition: that there is a cohesive majority within it and not the harlequin we saw at the last budgetary session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u65	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, it is clear to everyone that the increase in Italian public debt has long been out of control. It is also clear that the need to pay large annual amounts of interest on debt puts the holding of our public accounts at serious risk whenever a financial crisis occurs. The debt weighs on the future of our country and the policies of the President of the Council seem to be totally indifferent to these concerns. Minister, you said that in 2015 the privatisation of Poste italiana allowed to achieve and exceed the target of reducing the debt-to-GDP ratio by 0.4 per cent and that between 2016 and 2018 it is expected that the total privatisation programme will result in revenues of 0.5% of GDP per year for the Treasury. Such a plan of privatizations, especially in some more delicate and complex cases, such as Ferrovie dello Stato, raises great doubts about the prejudice to the quality of the service, which must be offered to the public even in the most peripheral areas of the country. Mr Minister, what guarantees are there that the proceeds from the sale of public assets are actually used to reduce the excessive public debt and that they are not aimed solely at reducing the deficit-GDP ratio, in order to allow a subsequent and further uncontrolled increase in expenditure in the future financial maneuvers of the Government?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u68	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister what urgent measures the Government intends to take to prevent the consequences of the worsening of balances - which already provide for a deficit of over 18 billion euros for 2016, of 20 billion euros for 2017 and of 17 billion euros for 2018 - if the forecast made by this Government is not respected of the growth of GDP of 1.6%, which, among other things, today is already officially corrected downwards to 1.4%. This deterioration could lead to the activation of the safeguard clauses, already foreseen for no less than EUR 23 billion, from 2017 onwards, through a frightening increase in VAT and excise duties on energy. This would have a negative impact on the entire Italian economic system, on employment and on households. With regard to flexibility, Minister, which you have defined as our right (and I agree with you), what can you tell us about the consequences that would occur in the absence of the realization of those investments which, together with the reforms, are the basis of the demand for flexibility? With the slowness that distinguishes us, if those investments were not realized, in addition to that piece of flexibility that we have already played on the law of stability and that makes this a law entirely in debt, the arranged combination between the lacked investments that will not support the real demand for flexibility and the worsening of the balances, already provided for by the corrections on the ulterior forecasts made in these days, how will it really and sincerely impact on our public accounts? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Padoan.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u69	Mr President, I would like to thank the interrogators once again. Let me begin my brief reply from a recent report by the European Commission on fiscal sustainability report for 2015, which I believe has also been the subject of discussion and I would like to give this report a reminder by the European Commission of Italy's debt reduction dynamics. That's not the way it is. The Commission document contains forecasts of debt developments very similar to those of the Government and merely highlights medium, short and long-term risk elements relating to a possible lower rate of debt reduction. This assessment by the Commission's offices is based on statistical indicators which are reviewed from time to time and which clearly indicate in the case of Italy's assessment of debt sustainability, low risks to public debt in the short and long term. Indeed, in the long term, Italy has one of the lowest levels of risk in the European Union, while it has a slightly higher level of risk in the so-called medium term, in addition to other countries such as France, Belgium and Spain. These basic results, on which I do not extend, are robust, as they say in jargon, to various simulation scenarios. For example, in the scenario that assumes the permanent increase of 100 basis points of the yields on the securities, therefore an important shock on the cost of the debt, these results are substantially preserved, maintained and therefore indicate the robustness and the long-term sustainability of the Italian debt. I would add that on the basis of the Commission's always forecast, the probability that the Italian debt in 2020, therefore in a few years, is above the 2015 level is only 11% so the direction, the trend of the debt, with a probability of almost 90%, is the right one. As a result, there is no call from the European Commission to the Government for the non-reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio. In government forecasts, the debt-to-GDP ratio is expected to decline as early as the current year. Based on the public finance objectives presented together with the Stability Act, this reduction will continue in 2017 and 2018 in line with the benchmark established by European regulations and national legislation. I must repeat once again that what matters is the debt-to-GDP ratio as accepted by all international institutions and not the absolute level of nominal debt. As you know, the European Commission has today presented its macroeconomic forecasts which remain, although they are built in a more favourable macroeconomic environment than that of a few months ago for events relating to the international economy, not far from those pronounced and made public by the Government in September, when the international framework was more favourable. The European Commission has revised downwards the growth estimates for all eurozone countries and confirmed that the Italian public debt relative to GDP will fall in 2016 for the first time after eight years of successive increases without taking into account, in the calculation of the debt, the proceeds from privatisations that, I would like to reiterate, by law are destined to reduce the debt. So there's no alternative to that. Economic recovery continues to support the stability of public finance. There is a downward revision of the growth forecasts for the eurozone, as I have just said, but at the same time there is a recomposition of European growth in favour of domestic demand. This reduces the downward risks that may come from negative shocks by emerging countries and the rest of the economy. The performance of labour market consumption improves throughout the euro area and in particular in Italy, guaranteeing tax and contribution revenues not lower than the one anticipated when preparing the most recent Update Note to the DEF 2015 and the public finance objectives and measures for the three years 2016-2018 communicated to the European Commission through the budgetary policy document. The results shown by the quarterly data released by ISTAT last month confirm that the performance of the public accounts is consistent with the objectives indicated by the Government throughout the third quarter of 2015. Cash figures for the state sector, for the first eleven months of 2015, also suggest a significant improvement in trend and close to 14 billion. The public accounts, therefore, are under control. The expected trend in long-term social security expenditure is sustainable. Medium-term risks are mitigated by commitment and forecast to a significant reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio. As regards 2017 (a specific application) in the 2016 Stability Act, the previous safeguard clauses were replaced by new clauses, amounting to 15.1 billion for 2017. Their introduction would allow, according to the macro scenario of the Stability Act, to lower net debt to a level of 1.1 percent of GDP in 2017. This forecast - I would like to stress - already includes the effects of lowering the 2017 IRES rate. Therefore, care must be taken to avoid double counting of public budget charges. The macroeconomic public finance framework for the period 2017-2020 will be verified in the 2016 DEF, which will be presented in mid-April. We will update the economic forecasts of public finance and formulate a new programmatic scenario, which will continue to have, as main and fundamental objectives, the reduction of public debt and the promotion of growth. The Government's intention, with regard to safeguard clauses and excise duties, remains to replace the increase in VAT and excise duties by savings measures that limit the negative impact on economic activity and household income. On the stability clauses, as many have pointed out, those requested by the Italian Government concern, for 0,5, structural reforms, of which 0.4 have already been obtained; for 0,3 public investment and 0.2 recourse to the so-called exceptional event clause, relating to expenses incurred for migrants. I would add two points: flexibility clauses are, in my view, not about the weakening of fiscal discipline, but about incentives to continue on the path of reforms and the activation of investments. Secondly, already the Eurogroup of a couple of months ago stated that Italian requests for clauses are entirely eligible, i.e. consistent and consistent with the European framework. Of course, we are still waiting, as I said yesterday, for a final response to this question from the Commission. I would like to conclude by saying that a further element of debt sustainability is the policy of issuing government bonds, which wants to consolidate the benefit of the current level of interest rates, through long-term securities issues. In this way, on the one hand, the cost of government debt at very low rates is blocked for an extended period and, on the other hand, the risk of refinancing is reduced through securities to be renewed in the short and medium term. The release of the new 30-year BTP in recent days is a good example of this strategy. Taking the time of application for a government bond with this maturity, through a trade union of specialist banks in government bonds, the BTP was issued on 1 March 2047 for an amount of 9 billion euros. The largest single placement operation ever in the 30-year segment, not only in Italy but throughout Europe, with a yield of 2.76 percent. This result was certainly possible thanks to the favourable context made possible by the policy of the European Central Bank, but also thanks to Italy's perception of reliability, both in relation to the commitment of the Italian Government and to debt management. The low perception of risk in Italy is also an indicator of the resilience of the Italian debt to possible geopolitical shocks that could occur in the future. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u72	SANTINI (PD). Minister, thank you for your answers. I also believe that the key element is the maintenance of the pace of growth during 2016. And we are also waiting for the new scenario, with the Document of Economics and Finance of next April. I would just point out a few aspects. The first concerns the great attention, in my opinion, to the investment clause, because it is very demanding and expects investment to be made (this would benefit growth). It is very important that the safeguard clauses are deactivated in 2017 and, in this regard, I believe that the commitment you have announced on the quality and control of public expenditure is very important to improve the mechanism for the acquisition of goods and services in the public administration, including by implementing more effectively the reform of public administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u75	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, the data we have listed as elements of concern are not political: they are contained in the thematic focus of 3 February of the Parliamentary Budget Office, which is unexpected source, and in the economic bulletin of the European Central Bank, the first of 2016, which continues to classify our country among the vulnerable ones, together with Ireland, Greece, Spain, Portugal, Cyprus and Slovenia. In addition, I have to say that what you have told us, which is that we expect a new programme scenario in the course of the year after the responses from the European Union to the flexibility clauses (which, from the papers that we read, we now think are definitely rejected there), is even more worrying. We are concerned at the fact that we have only found it in a very minimal way in your response that savings could perhaps be made. Where has this Government's policy of reducing public spending gone?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u78	PETROCELLI (M5S). Minister, I have no words. You in this situation are the perfect replicant of your President-in-Office, Renzi, who went to Europe to beat his fists on the table of the European Commission and Juncker told him that there was no table at all.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u81	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, we maintain the concerns that we had already expressed during the debate on the Stability Act. We are not pessimistic in part, but we are concerned because we think that the news that comes to us and above all the incidence of international events are not to be underestimated, especially with respect to the need to recover financial manoeuvre in favour of investments, in particular in the Mezzogiorno of Italy and the Islands, which have been quite forgotten by the maneuver for 2016. Needless to say what is the state of mind that you live in some territories of the country; I think of the Sulcis, the energy question, the industrial crisis; I think of the Mezzogiorno of the country, especially as regards the state of education and university, which see reduced, especially in those parts of Italy, the funding for them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u84	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, unfortunately, the Minister's answers do not reassure us. We find ourselves dissatisfied. There is no certainty as to the government's willingness to promote serious policies to reduce public debt. The reduction in public expenditure is not achieved in a balanced manner. The only cuts were directed to local authorities, municipalities, provinces and regions, with great impairment of the quality of minimum services essential to people, such as in health care. No spending review has been initiated. We have only witnessed the systematic resignation of those responsible, and we have been called upon to carry it out. The debt increase is out of control. Despite the Minister's reassurances, we confirm our concerns. We contend, the government's spending policies, aimed at occasional electoral policies, certainly not at decisive and structural reforms. The suffering of the public finances and the renewed financial crisis of the banks are putting even more at risk the recovery of our economy. President Renzi's promises are no longer enough. The government had to return certainties and a dignified life to citizens and families: it is not doing so. Unfortunately, it has to be noted, it has failed in its objectives.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u87	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, I will comment on this by taking the example of two saints, both current in relation to Europeanist wear and tear. The first is Saint Anthony of Padua and his current war on legalized usury. He turned to the powerful of time to get them back to speak freely and honestly about the fight against legalized usury. The saint condemned the usurers and usury, as Pope Francis now does, which will of course soon be holy. The other one said: It presents Europe as a sort of earthly paradise, but for us Europe at best will be a limbo and at worst it will be a hell. (...) because if Italy needs Europe, Europe needs Italy, let us not forget it, and it claimed that we should demand the renegotiation of the Maastricht parameters; it was "San Bettino da Hammamet."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u88	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Padoan for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u89	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-573.ana.u90	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 9 February, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.07 p.m.
