ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 21 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend our work. (The sitting was suspended at 9.35 a.m. and resumed at 9.56 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u6	I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:56 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2483, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected and the question of confidence raised by the Government on the single article of the draft law was discussed in the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u12	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said many times yesterday, we are at the tenth decree-law with regard to this important industrial reality for our country. The work behind ILVA is also important; at the same time, as has been said several times, the environment and health of those who work there must be protected, as well as the enterprise, which has a great influence on the territory. We must safeguard the South. ILVA has a maximum concentration in Taranto, but it is also diffused in other localities as in the province of Alessandria and Genoa. Therefore, it is certainly important to save this enterprise. The point is that probably with this tenth decree perhaps the times were a little too dilatory. Therefore, we, as Italy of Values, think that the choice to extend the time and reach a clean-up even by June 2019 is not the most far-sighted choice. We had tabled amendments which were not assessed because the question of trust was raised. The amendments tended to shorten the time frame and to give answers in a shorter period. Consequently, for the choices made by the Government with this decree-law, we consider it appropriate not to participate in the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u15	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, I have little time - just five minutes - and it is not easy for me, as for others, to argue sufficiently well my conclusions on a measure involving Ilva and its direct synonym, the city of Taranto. Trust in this direction does not help us and makes the need for synthesis even more pressing. After the discussion on constitutionality or not of the recourse to the umpteenth decree-law on the same subject, here is a given, indeed a fact, that must make us reflect before and that suggests, in a more than obvious way, how the decree of urgency with the ILVA ultimately does not work. Recalling other moments of discussion on the various decrees proposed in the past, I want to reiterate that this measure also highlights in all its power the crisis of the Ilva and the chase of continuous buffer solutions, because perhaps there is no strategic vision or - if you want to think positive - because you can not express it and carry it forward. This vision must therefore be drawn up once and for all. It was July 26, 2012, precisely four years ago, when the "virtual" seals were placed at the plant which, as it had to write the gip Todisco, is a source of illness and death. Today we have before our eyes the evidence that the initiatives taken so far have not solved, in the sense of resolving, the nodes that choke the largest productive and occupational reality of the country, but above all the city of Taranto, which suffocates more and more in the pollution of its territory. This decree-law - it has remembered in many - is the eleventh provision that regards in matter the ILVA, but, as in a tragic synthesis between the efforts of Sisyphus and the work of Penelope, we always find ourselves at the same point, moving perhaps a little further the deadlines and the extensions, granting or extending some more healing to commissioners or possible buyers. I therefore share the effort to maintain the firm belief that the sale of the plant, beyond representing the desire to continue producing steel in a wounded territory, represents the desire not to close an industry that gives employment immediately. We must therefore read the Decree-Law as an instrument to give stability to the investments of the private individuals who will take over the plant and who, at the same time, will create that solid situation in which the strategies of environmentalization find concreteness and implementation. Here then justified and also justifiable the variations to the plan by the private ones that will acquire, because in this way will start the real strategies for the reconstruction of Taranto, however, while the final objective will be to offer a different future to the ionic city, that we will discuss with the people and the city, and of which the pact for Taranto, signed by the President of the Council, represents only an anticipation of what the Government must do for it. Because the ordalia tragically put in place between the right to health and the right to work - the ILVA and Taranto represent this dramatic synthesis - cannot be dealt with and let alone resolved only by means of decree-laws and even more by blows of blind confidence. Therefore, falling within the jersey of the decree-law in the vote, I cannot fail to note that this provision does not differ much from the previous ones even if, honestly, one can take some timid steps forward, such as the provision that concerns the ARPA of Puglia: despite the remaining of some perplexity on the envisaged mode, finally this agency will be able to increase its staff, in order to be able to cope with the expected environmental controls. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Stephen. STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Just a minute, Madam President. Let me ask the government: how many times have you rejected this proposal, both in previous decrees and in the laws of stability of recent years? How many times have you been deaf and blind to an obvious and necessary proposal, which you make only today, even putting the question of trust? This is welcome, but at the same time there is also a missed opportunity not to extend to ASL the strengthening of the staff to allow for better control of the territory. I remember that in the past we have also highlighted the negativity of the slippage of the term for the realization of the participations previewed in the integrated environmental authorization (AIA): instead we confirm that it must be pushed to its implementation, in order to give answers to the suffering of a city attacked from the environmental point of view. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). A further reservation had been made regarding the possibility of making possible a modification of the AIA, even if there is now a further novelty: in fact, I have heard a partial listening, as for the ARPA, to some criticalities detected and posed in the past, for example where the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers was identified as an instrument of authorisation that takes place, if necessary, of the environmental impact assessment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, Senator Stefano. You may request to deliver the text of your speech. STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Yes, Madam President: I would ask you to hand over the written text of my speech so that it can be published in today's Minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Finally, I would like to point out that I will not take part in the vote, because even this time the request for a vote of confidence does not allow me to make a contribution to the debate in this House, as I think it would have been useful to improve the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u18	ZIZA (CoR). Madam President, instead, we will participate in the vote and we will vote firmly against the confidence of the Government and against the decree-law in question, because we are talking about a problem that Italy has been carrying out for five years, with ten decree-laws issued, of which five by the Renzi Government. The questions referred for a preliminary ruling, which were discussed at yesterday's sitting, clearly and clearly pointed out that the decree-law at our examination is not only unconstitutional, but also technically unsustainable from various points of view. During the debate in the Commission and in this House, no opportunity was given to improve the measure in question: the majority was unable to question it. The measure is wrong and does not protect the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, our Group, already on the occasion of the ninth ILVA decree, pointed out in this House that the line indicated by the decree-law was by no means the magic solution, capable of dissipating all shadows related to the ILVA affair. But, as always, even this time the majority did not listen to us, they do not compare and they do not question. So the situation is now at its limit. We had tabled amendments to protect the sector and the creditor companies, which not only no longer have work from Ilva, but which are in serious danger of failing. Moreover, from an environmental point of view, the final deadline for the implementation of the environmental recovery plan is once again shifted and postponed: we are now at 30 December 2018. Well, we continue to believe that this time too we will be forced to intervene and that we will intervene again with other decrees-laws. In addition, a study recently published by the House of Deputies has shown that to date EUR 1.6 billion has been invested, plus the local tax and integration fund. I repeat: EUR 1.6 billion, according to a study by the House of Deputies. Perhaps we should ask ourselves whether we could do anything else with these resources, if we could spend it better, if we could put a different solution in place. This decree also demonstrates the dramatic situation of Ilva and the dramatic situation of Taranto. And it is not the inauguration of a museum that can solve the problems of Taranto, which has many other serious unemployment problems. For all these reasons, but also for others, we will vote strongly against it. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u21	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few decades there has been a profound structural change in the steel sector, mainly linked to the globalisation of production, which has led to a crisis that has mainly affected large companies. It is no coincidence that Parliament has recently been involved in the resolution of critical problems related to our largest companies in the sector, the ILVA in the first place, but also the Lucchini, with the Piombino and Trieste plants, the AST of Terni and all the strategic companies that this country had (at this point, it is precisely the case to say "had"). These are realities that are similar in different respects and have a common matrix, that of the economic and financial crisis, and that are nevertheless due to a lack of industrial policy in the country, as well as to a lack of overall vision in the national steel industry. The Italian steel industry, like other international companies, has not historically benefited from a political will aimed at defending and protecting excellence: this has fostered penetration into the sector of international giants, whose mission is alien to the protection of steel excellence and the interest of maintaining Italian production. The governments of these years (the Monti Government, the Letta Government and the Renzi Government) have been able to issue ten or eleven decree-laws. I heard a few speeches yesterday and I noticed that there was a bit of confusion about the numbers too; at this point, I would say that we do not have the very clear ideas about how many decree-laws were made to save the ILVA. They have been able to appoint guarantors, special commissioners, subcommissaries, expert committees, an endless team of consultants, engineers and technicians, in years of lost battles for institutional and judicial matters, years of conflicts between experts, judges and environmentalists, years where nothing or almost nothing has changed, Madam President, years that have served only to increase resignation and fear among the Taranto population. We regard the history of the Ilva as something dramatic, which engages the parliamentary classrooms since the last legislature and which the Government of the technicians has not been able to face and resolve with due concreteness. The ILVA affair has, above all, brought out the fragility of our administrative system of intervention in environmental and industrial policy issues. The lack of clarity on the roles and competences of the institutional bodies concerned with environmental rehabilitation and redevelopment of the territory of Taranto has fueled a series of criminal and administrative procedures with counter-arguments of the Government turned out to date ineffective, creating uncertainties that concern not only the ILVA of Taranto, but the entire Italian industrial system. This was mainly because it enabled the judicial authority to intervene on issues which clearly fall within the remit of the environmental authorities and the Community directives. We believe that the reliability and credibility of our country towards foreign investors has been put at stake. The citizens of Taranto pay the irresponsibility of the entrepreneurial and industrial class of the past and the irresponsibility of the local administrative class, which has so far closed its eyes to the health and environmental problem. The environmental and health problems are even more serious if we think that in the same situation of environmental and health emergency in Taranto there are also fifty-seven other sites of national interest, mostly located in the North of the country, to which the Government must intervene with concrete answers to protect the health of the citizens. Almost four years after the first investigation by the judiciary on the ILVA case and on the pollution of the Taranto area, we are obliged to look to the past especially to understand and to draw the sums on the results achieved in the path of the interventions traced down by the last Governments. This is due above all to workers who have linked their lives and their families to the fate of what is still the most important steel giant in Europe today. While we in this House are examining yet another government decree on ILVA, outside Parliament the workers, who are on the desperate and desperate, are concerned about understanding what their future is and how to maintain their jobs. If an action by the government is subjected to such harsh criticism by the workers, something certainly is wrong and it will certainly not be ten or eleven decrees to mitigate their anger. The resulting uncertainty risks calling into question the work of the plant and causing to lose orders and reliability because, beyond the legislative and bureaucratic aspects and judicial investigations, there is the daily work that goes on thanks to the commitment of the workers who, even at the most difficult moments in the history of the steel plant, have been busy while not having any guarantee or certainty for the future. That's a bit of a chronicle. On yesterday's day I heard some speeches, especially from members of the majority, in which the opposition was urged to make concrete proposals and not just criticism. But I believe that shame has no limits at this point: you have put yet another confidence [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] and you have stopped the dialogue; in the Commission in ten minutes you have rejected all the amendments; you have been afraid to confront yourselves in this House; you have had the haste of those who do not accept criticism and debate; you have had the arrogance to think that you and only you have the truth in hand. And perhaps, Madam President, Mr Boschi, too, was a little ashamed to come to this House to put the question of trust for the umpteenth time. Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. He's abroad. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). I would like to thank Minister Galletti for having very well replaced her, but despite the kindness that the Minister has shown, you will still have the contrary vote of the Group of the North League [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u24	Mr Iurlaro (AL-A). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary passage for the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 98 of 2016 follows what we dealt with not later than six months ago, and this is extremely indicative of how strong the emergency in the territory continues to be both as regards the legitimate environmental and health concerns of citizens, but also as regards the occupational, employment and economic policy waste that this issue entails. Certainly the situation of the territory where Ilva also insists - and where I also live - is very complex, and not by chance I used the expression "also" because the environmental criticalities present in the territory of Taranto should not be attributed exclusively to the presence of ILVA, but to the cumulative effect deriving from different and important polluting plants. The phenomenon is present in several cities that host polluting industrial poles, such as Gela, Priolo, Gargallo, Augusta, Marghera or Ravenna. I could mention the effects of the refineries in these poles. In Taranto the refinery bears the name of AGIP and also because of such presences the quality of life of citizenship has become increasingly poor, fatally accusing people to have to deal with the onset of pathologies whose aetiology today is peacefully linked to causality or causality with the degradation of the environmental matrix air, water, soil. Diseases, then, but also fatal outcomes of these diseases. A situation, therefore, that has worsened over time and that we all know is not solvable in the blink of an eye. However, it had to begin, and certainly not because of the lack of the European infringement procedure, but because it is right and necessary for the physical and economic survival of a territory and its inhabitants. And it started. The Government has put in place actions, has identified a path, has experienced the necessity of adjustments in the path, in the awareness that when you face situations so complicated, you are never sure that the next step will be the final and final one, resolving every problem. So today, compared to six months ago, we have taken a step forward in collecting the manifestations of interest related to the operation of transfer of the business complexes of ILVA. We know that 29 subjects have responded, of which 17 Italians and 12 foreigners and that 19 of them have already been admitted to the phase of due diligence, and we know how now opens the nerve phase of the identification of a solid and adequate subject that can guarantee a peaceful future to the industrial garrison. Of course, we move in a delicate area, always in balance between the European constraints that impose the prohibition of State aid to companies and the need never to forget what Ilva represented for the Italian steel industry, for the Mezzogiorno and for the entire economy of the country. And so, in general discussion, we have heard the opposing assessments on what is perhaps the most debated aspect of the entire decree-law that today we are called to convert, that is, what is contained in article 1, paragraph 1, where it is expected that the burden of refund of the amount paid by the State pursuant to the previous decree n. 191 of 2015, in order to meet the indivisible financial requirements of the ILVA group (to date 300 million euros), will be placed at the expense of the extraordinary administration of the group and no longer at the expense of the buyer who will be awarded the transfer procedure. We have heard how many tearing contrasts on this and other points of the decree there have been between the political formations and this is symptomatic of how in Italy one is still far from achieving a unity in conceiving the relationship with the industry. We have already said this in the past and we reiterate that the steel industry has been and still represents a strategic sector for our country, but it is also true that the theme of environmental sustainability, as well as the environmental recovery of degraded territories, must be a constant reference of the action of every administrator and every political decision-maker, in the conviction that a balance is possible and that a path of rehabilitation is indispensable. Compared to this, and even ILVA is fully part of it, there are indispensable and non-negotiable guarantees that must be realized: it is essential that the plants do not close and therefore the operational continuity is guaranteed in compliance with the environmental requirements; it is necessary to guarantee the occupational levels and the survival of thousands of families of workers of the plant and the induced; it is necessary to guarantee the absolute environmental compatibility of the productions; it must be ensured the protection, especially of the health of workers and citizens of Taranto. All this involves a sense of responsibility and this sense of responsibility we of the AL-A Group want to demonstrate, approving the text under consideration and giving confidence to the path identified to relocate the business complexes on the market and arrive as soon as possible to the desired industrial, financial and management stability. We cannot be seduced by the song of the sirens calling for unlikely retromarc. On the contrary, starting precisely from the ILVA affair, Parliament must re-launch and focus its attention on the activity of many other polluting plants that insist in the territories in order to push even more on the protection of health and the reclamation of polluted sites. Let us move forward, therefore, with the utmost commitment and attention, with will and wisdom. Let's exercise our powers of direction. We demand the full involvement of the relevant Commissions. Let us ensure that those indispensable guarantees of which I mentioned earlier are fully respected. We demand transparency and maximum correctness. We demand responsibility and a sense of duty. The history of a country, of a great country like ours, is made of concrete steps and far-sighted choices that look to the future and are able to realize it. You can also take into account the error. A lack of evaluation may also be considered, but it is certainly not possible to endorse immobilism or, worse, indifference. The present questions us and demands clear and determined positions from us. We are convinced that we must look at the history of those who preceded with grateful eyes towards those who thought they could achieve something important for future generations, perhaps underestimating, wrongly, that natural resources were not infinite or inexhaustible. Today the present calls for more sensitive attitudes, different assessments, more energetic actions in considering the cumulative effects of the pollutants that insist on the same territory. Combining in an intelligent way sustainable development and protection of the environment and health is a possible thing and the ILVA story can and must represent for our country an experience to treasure, but also a challenge for a decisive and serious change of course that places at the center of all the decisions the well-being of citizens in every respect: social, economic, environmental, health; in a word, human well-being. Asked by this sense of responsibility and motivated by the need not to stop, I announce the favorable vote of the Alleanza Liberalpopulare and Autonomie Group. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u27	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE recognizes itself in the report presented by Senator Fabbri and Senator Orellana and, therefore, advance the vote in favour of trust, which will certainly be argued in the light of very brief reflections that I put to your attention, President, fellow senators, fellow senators and rapporteurs. We consider the use of a further decree-law at this point inevitable in order to ensure the continuation of the economic activity of an important plant at national level, I would say even more international, and at the same time to ensure a serious environmental recovery, realistically possible and definitive, that the existing procedures could not have allowed. I would like to take the opportunity of this explanation of vote to reflect on some of the requests made yesterday during the presentation of some of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. On one particular point, I should like to mention the question of Mr De Petris - if I recall correctly - who referred to the supposed unconstitutionality of the decree-law. I must point out that the rapporteurs, and in particular Senator Orellana, have long focused on the alleged criteria of unconstitutionality of the provisions of article 1, paragraph 4, of the decree-law under consideration, namely the exclusion of criminal and administrative liability extended to buyers or tenants of the ILVA plant. It is worth recalling - as has already been done in the context of the illustration - that, with the judgment No 85 of 2013 of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court has examined precisely the legitimacy of Articles 1 and 3 of Decree-Law No 207 of 2012, which already at the time provided for the exclusion of the criminal and administrative liability of the extraordinary commissioner, which has now been intended to extend to the tenant or buyer, for the conduct of implementing the environmental plan. I would therefore stress that, in 2013, the Court had made a clear statement on this issue. With regard to the constitutional remarks, the Court has declared inadmissible those referred to in Articles 25 and 27 of the Constitution and unfounded all those referring to the other articles of the Charter, including in particular Article 3 repeatedly cited - perhaps inappropriately - in this House. A further second and definitive reflection is on the establishment of a committee of experts that within four months - as has been pointed out in the discussion and illustration of the preliminary questions - will have the task of evaluating the environmental plans presented by private individuals, as if we were going to foreshadow a sort of privatisation of a function that - as we know - is typically carried out by the Ministry of the Environment. It should be recalled that the three experts were defined as having a specific competence and were appropriately appointed by ministerial decree. This means that a kind of accusation of privatization of a function that is carried out by the Ministry and which is at the head of the Ministry itself is unfounded. For the reasons put forward and reported to his attention and the Assembly, the Group for the Autonomouss (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE reiterates its vote of confidence. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Fabbri and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u30	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, this measure is once again being imposed on this House with a request for confidence in the absolutely accelerated truth, since this time it has been prevented - I have to look for the precedents - also the general discussion in addition to the amending activity. The text before us is - in our opinion - the history of a failure: a failure in the industrial aspect, a failure in the protection of public health; a failure in the reclamation and rehabilitation of all environmental matrixes and to pay the consequences are mainly the workers of the Ilva, their safety, the citizens of the Taranto area for the unsolved health and environmental crisis and all the surrounding environment. I would like to remind you here that the environmentalization and restoration of the territory, as well as all the surveillance and health protection measures, are still on the stakes. There is no significant result as regards the reduction of exposure to pollutants of industrial origin and the reduction of pollution. Yes, there was some slight and occasional improvement signal, but you know perfectly well that it is due only to the reduction of production. This means that, in total absence of structural environmental interventions, air pollution will rise again and all this is unacceptable for the health of the citizens of Taranto and for this country. In short, we are faced with a persistent and very serious industrial, health and environmental emergency that we are stubborn to deal with with emergency measures that, practically without continuity, have produced no improvement and do not change the current situation. To the urgency of interventions aimed at restoring the quality of the environment and to give solution to the dramatic epidemiological situation confirmed on several occasions in the area of Taranto, the decree-law finds no better than to respond with the forecast of yet another extension, up to a further year and a half, for the implementation of the environmental and health plan and with the possibility of being able to modify it according to the needs, the conveniences of the future buyers subjects. In practice, there is the rewriting and cancellation of the prescriptions, perhaps starting with the covering of mining parks, which will be proposed by private individuals as a condition without which the purchase cannot take place. Therefore, if on the one hand the measure under consideration is careful, very careful, to favour the new buyers and to facilitate the sale of the ILVA, providing, among other things, that they should not be the ones to repay the 300 million more interest (almost 400 million) paid for the financial needs of the Group, but it will have to be the extraordinary administration, and therefore the State; on the other hand the decree-law in fact calls into question the same process of environmentalization of the ILVA, as provided for by the AIA, that is presupposition to save the plant. This increases and greatly increases the concerns of those in those territories who live and live on their own skin the environmental and health disaster. It is regrettable that today there is no Minister of the Environment on the benches of the Government, who presented himself only yesterday to put confidence in advance. Perhaps it would have been appropriate, having not even been able to read our amendments, to have heard at least about environmental issues on the subject. Like other previous measures, this also risks being not only ineffective from the point of view of environmental recovery and the protection of public health, but - in our opinion - even worse than the existing environmental legislation: it is expected that future buyers or tenants will be able to submit proposals for amendment of the environmental plan and that these proposals will be evaluated by a committee of experts. You see, Senator Romano, we believe that the further invention of the committee of experts is absolutely unconstitutional. It is clear to everyone that, while on the one hand we continue to ensure that the ARPA cannot have sufficient staff, on the other we set up the committee which we consider to be a genuine privatisation of a function carried out by the Ministry of the Environment, thus in contrast to the constitutional principle of impartiality of public administration. The Committee of Experts, among other things, is not based on any rule that avoids possible conflicts of interest between those with proven experience in the field of environmental protection and iron and steel plants; nobody - for example - can deal with and is expert in epidemiology and health protection. Priority had to be given to those purchasing offers that could guarantee a true development perspective, focused on technological and environmental innovation and on the confirmation of current employment levels. But there is no trace of this in the measure, just as there was no trace of it in the previous emergency measures. Action is taken in the procedure concerning amendments and additions to the environmental plan, by defining another new procedure, according to which the person submitting a binding offer will not only be able to request changes in relation to the current environmental and health plan, but also to obtain the postponement, up to eighteen months, of the deadline for the implementation of the prescribed requirements. The deadline, which had already been extended to 30 June 2017, now becomes, once again, extendable by one and a half years: an unacceptable extension of an already deferred deadline, which will result in a further shift forward of the environmental rehabilitation measures provided for by the AIA and, therefore, of the environmentalization and restoration works of the territory, without imposing a precise and binding timetable of the interventions of environmental recovery. It is therefore an untenable and unacceptable forecast, in our view, also because the implementation of the measures provided for in the AIA remains the essential prerequisite for ensuring the solution of the very serious health and environmental emergency. Not to mention an issue on which I would like to return and dwell further. The further extension envisaged brings with it another extension, which is what we really think is unacceptable and which presupposes and involves two very serious vulnus from the constitutional point of view. The first extension, in fact, also brings with it the extension of the judicial shield, so far provided for the Commissioners and their delegates. In this way, on the other hand, this total impunity is expected to be extended for buyers as well. Senator Romano refers to that sentence in arguing with me as regards the unconstitutionality of this shield, this presumption of impunity. He is forgetting that, in the meantime, we have fortunately also approved the Environmental Crimes Act. The further expansion - confirmation of the previous shield and extension of the current shield also to future buyers - is nothing more than to establish that there may even be a right to environmental disaster. You tell me whether this can be compatible with Article 112 of our Constitution, which provides for mandatory prosecution. In summary, perhaps we would have had the opportunity to change the criticalities of this yet another decree, looking exactly at and accepting a series of amendments that we have tabled, as other political forces have done. But this, as usual, was not possible. For this reason, not only will we vote against confidence, but we are absolutely opposed to this umpteenth decree which represents - and we strongly support it - not only the representation of a failure, but a real regression from the previous ones and the current legislation. Above all it does not provide any prospect for those inhabitants and those workers to resolve the dramatic situation, from the environmental and health point of view in which they live and for the future of that plant. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u33	DAVICO (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are in the process of converting yet another ILVA decree, the tenth, and once again with a request for confidence. This year's story concerns a company complex that, due to its size and the high number of employees, is the largest in our country and is certainly the one that has an environmental impact among the most significant. This new decree concerns the improvement of the previous one and aims at the solution of questions related to the cession of the business complexes, as laid down in February last. In other words, it is useful - and not only in my opinion - to make its acquisition more attractive by one of the two roped that are in the field. As regards the purchase and disposal of business complexes, I would like to remind you how the first transfer was managed to private individuals, that of 1995, when Dr. Emilio Riva was able to take over this property having provision for early retirement of older workers, on the one hand, and employment training contracts for the recruitment of young workers, on the other. It was a virtually zero-cost operation, even for the incentives made available. It does not appear to me that he was asked, on that occasion, for commitments or investments in plant safety, the production cycle and new technologies, nor for pollution. With that choice he was offered a license to pollute and poison a territory, with the risk of people becoming ill and, very often, dying. Someone spoke of a dramatic, tragic, regalia. After the era of Riva and the commissionership were many promises and commitments not kept to face and try to resolve a situation that has become increasingly tragic, for the factory, but especially for the city of Taranto and the surrounding territory. For every urgent decree approved on the ILVA we have been explained that they were extraordinary measures, able to arrive to the outcome of making the constitutional rights to health and work due also by the citizens of Taranto and the employees of the factory. We have done so ten times in four years (nearly eleven, because one was not a decree) until reaching the latter, which only favors the transfer to private individuals. The point is that nothing will change with the approval of this decree-law at our examination but, on the contrary, the measures that it contains will worsen the current situation, of citizens and workers. The factory has continued to cause serious damage to the population and the environment. With the 18-month delay of the implementation of the environmental and health protection plan approved by the Council of Ministers in March 2014, we expect a further extension of time for a plan that had already been fired late and had already intervened by moving forward the application of the requirements of the integrated environmental authorisation (IAA) of 2012 until August 2016. We remember when the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea declared that this would be the instrument to resolve the dramas of Taranto and that, soon after, the extraordinary commissioner would have prepared the industrial plan. What an industrial plan! The Commissioner had this task, but he failed to carry it out (it was not even a task that he had, as it was entrusted by the Government). No recovery has been done - zero - and the time and requirements of the AIA have only been further extended. As if all this were not enough, in the previous decree-law of February last, the terms were moved further forward (until June 2017) to arrive, to date, at a rule that allows those who submit a binding offer to request changes to the environmental plan and a postponement up to eighteen months of its final term. This appears as a bonus - a further, tragic bonus - in favour of those who are preparing to buy and yet another slap on the face to those who - above all, citizens - continue to suffer the consequences of the health emergency. But there's more. We are talking about the extension of the judicial shield already provided for commissioners also to future buyers and tenants and their delegates. This rule will allow them not to answer criminally, civilly and from an administrative point of view of the conduct they will put in place. In addition to everything I have already pointed out, there is also the lack of guarantee for the maintenance of employment levels. In fact, it was not considered to have to bind future buyers, by including the protection of employment levels within a specific rule of the decree-law. Only in this way would there have been a certainty for the workers. There are hard days for all workers, which are about 12,000. Last but not least, I recall the provision contained in Article 1 of the measure, aimed at placing the burden of reimbursement of the 400 million euros allocated by the previous decree-law on the commissioner's structure. It is, therefore, money that will be reimbursed by the commissioner's structure and, that is, put at the expense of the state's budget. Does this not also look like a concession too unbalanced in favor of future buyers? Are we not able, as a state, to place binding constraints on private buyers? The decree-law in question has nothing urgent and yet another confidence consolidates a strategy, which is now inseparable, which tends not to create discontinuities with an unsustainable past from an environmental and economic point of view. Let us have the courage to say that polluting industrialization in territories such as Taranto (but I could mention other industrial poles such as Ravenna, Gela or Augusta) has taken its time and that it is now necessary to aim for the conversion of companies that, as a top priority, must pursue total compatibility with the environment. It's more than a slippage of environmental plans! In a serious country this should be the priority of priorities. Afterwards, action must be taken with a view to the rehabilitation, reclamation and stopping - or at least reducing - the escalation of the cancer diseases that characterize those territories. It is pointless to shake the fear of job losses or the detriment of the national economy if that is the price to be paid. There are values and non-negotiable goods and the health of man and the environment is among them. It has been a long time, far too long, and we do not feel that we share further strategies of the delay, let alone if conducted under the werena of the question of trust. Ladies and gentlemen, it is for these reasons that, while respecting the different sensibilities within the Group to which I belong, I am voting against the Grand Autonomous and Freedom Group. [[Applause from Senator Giovanni Mauro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u36	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, we are looking at yet another ILVA decree-law and this is, in itself, completely abnormal. The contents of the decree-law have been extensively illustrated in general discussion. The decree briefly deals with the issue of transfer procedures to third parties, deals with the essential rights of health protection, environmental protection and labour protection. It takes particular care, inter alia, of the question of the repayment of the amounts paid and, therefore, in a certain way, initiates and strengthens those procedures which tend to entrust to third parties of the strategic plant in the form of sale, rent or transfer of other nature. The fundamental objective in the interest of the country I believe is to start a serious conversion and modernization of the plants, evidently taking particular care of the principles of the protection of health and the environment and, of course, the safeguard and the employment guarantees that must concern not only the employees of the ILVA, but also of all the companies that work in the induced. This is in change the substantive content of the decree-law. I can only anticipate the vote in favour of my Group, because we realize that today the Ilva issue has reached a point of no return and, therefore, obviously, we must continue to deal with it and manage it precisely because such a large complex, the largest steel complex in Italy, the most important steel complex in Europe, cannot be sent to waste. Having said that, some reflections must be made. First of all, a first reflection that must be made is that politics and Parliament have never questioned each other and have never given a complete answer on the environmental issue of Taranto; an environmental issue that is not exclusively or mainly attributable to the Ilva plants and, I must also say, in contrast with most present, to the Riva family. Meanwhile, I remind myself that when this industrial group was handed over by Italsider to the Riva family, it was not from the technological and environmental point of view the best plant in Europe. So, obviously, we were already starting from an environmental and management situation that was seriously compromised. However, we also have the duty to say and recognize that today the environmental issue of Taranto concerns other important companies like ENI, but it also concerns the Italian State because, sooner or later, we have to ask ourselves about the management of the military basin, managed by the Navy; we have to ask ourselves at some point about the management of that military shipbuilding and, therefore, about that activity of shelter and demolition of the military vessels that is managed by the Ministry of Defence. Therefore, to deal with the environmental issue of Taranto, ascribing it exclusively to ILVA, is definitely a mistake. We cannot then pick up a critical note of ours, because obviously, despite the positive nature of this decree-law that we are going to vote on, we must recognize that the time has come to address in a definitive and final way the issues of Ilva and Taranto. In fact, all in all, we have composed a series of consecutive acts with each other, but certainly partial, while, in my opinion, the issue should have been dealt with in an overall way. The shortcomings of this measure are not only highlighted by us, but also at European level. We know, in fact, that there is a serious and strong investigation by the European Commission which deals mainly with two aspects. It concerns the issue of State aid because there is a well-founded suspicion that these subsequent disbursements and, in particular, the last grant of EUR 300 million may not even be returned and could therefore also be permanently burdened on the treasury's coffers without dissolving the nodes of State aid. There is also an in-depth European Union survey on environmental issues, as those present today in Taranto and in the Ilva plant are of such magnitude as to deserve such attention. Above all, the European Union calls on us to resolve the fundamental issue that responds to the well-known polluter-pays principle. Who then has to pay for the pollution and environmental disaster produced over these decades at that industrial site? Who will have to deal with this question if, as I said before, the environmental disaster is dated, draws its origins from the Italsider management, has continued under the private management of the Riva and has not been solved by the commissioners who, among other things, have complied with laws and worked thanks to a mandate of the Government and Parliament? It is a very complex and complex issue that is further complicated because there is a real concern that an insolvency of the company could jeopardise the return of the 300 million. The other fundamental issue which leads to particular caution is immunity. If, on the one hand, we are convinced that, in the face of an extraordinary situation, an extraordinary decision can be taken, that is, to confer a level of criminal immunity to those who will have to manage the plant for the first time, derogating from the procedures not only of an environmental nature, but also from the refluences of a criminal nature, we are surprised that, on the other hand, a limit has not been set or the border of this immunity has not been defined better. Today we are unable to determine for what period, for how many people and for whom this criterion of immunity should be extended. Will it concern only the buyer, only the managing director or any execution of other people's provisions? Will it affect 20 or 30 people? In fact, we are introducing an absolutely innovative legal institution which I do not criticize in principle, but which, in my opinion, should have been written differently. The history of this decree-law is known. It is a decree-law held for a long time in a branch of Parliament. Issues such as these have not been addressed and others have been introduced. I am referring to an amendment, which was inserted in the House of Members' conversion, which sets out a monitoring and mapping of hazardous and radioactive waste for the administration of the Commission without addressing the issue of its financial cover. From this point of view we also have doubts about the legitimacy of this decree-law that at least for this specific profile, could be without the due financial coverage. Today we have a duty to represent these perplexities to Parliament and the country. In any case, I announce the vote in favour because, in calculating the glass half empty and half full, we realize that it is necessary to continue on the path that Parliament and the governments that have followed have taken for a long time. As part of a majority, we realize that sometimes duty and responsibility make us do things even if we don't like them. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u39	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, we shall vote against this decree-law. The first reason is as follows: in the time ILVA will have burned 17,000 euros and some change, the equivalent of the solidarity salary of an ILVA worker. Everything a worker has given in eleven months will be burned in just ten minutes. The folly of such a project, called ILVA of Taranto, lies in these numbers, which can be enlarged: they become 2.5 million per day - just do a simple multiplication - or about 1.090 million per year. To put it another way, over the last four years, ILVA has lost EUR 3 billion and EUR 90 million. The myth for which ILVA would be a competitive society at national and international level is therefore also false. Who should put the EUR 3 billion? It should put them who buys it, which, for starters, should bring out 3 billion euros to pay the debts. Then he should take out the money to build another blast furnace, since blast furnace 5 has never been built. So we are talking about at least another EUR 500 million. Then there is the matter of the Bonifiche and here we open the chapter of the provision that you have issued. A small piece has been introduced to the House of Deputies, according to which a mapping of all contaminated areas within the plant has to be made. Since the legislation, until the 1970s, allowed the disposal of the processing waste, of whatever level of toxicity, within the plant itself, means that everything is contaminated. You see, ladies and gentlemen, there is one point to highlight: when it is established that contamination is certain, there is a situation in which workers work in conditions of certain danger. We assume that there is widespread contamination of asbestos and radioactive waste or dioxin: in theory, personal protective equipment should be provided to workers to eliminate the risk of contamination or death. That is what should be done. Do you think they're gonna get 10,000 people to work under these conditions or are we gonna find a derogation? There is another beautiful thing: you have written that the buyer is not responsible for the pollution that has occurred. It would also sound good: so it doesn't pay who buys. What about the others? The Rivas don't pay because they don't have the money. So, who pays and when? And in the meantime, what do we do? That's brilliant too. The rapporteur said that it is not important that we have reached 11 decree-laws: it is like having failed 11 times in high school or repeating the same university exam 11 times. Does that make sense to you? This is the comparison: you have failed an examination 11 times, but you argue that this does not create any problem. That's the other reasoning you've made and it's almost ridiculous. Let's look at the procedure you intend to pursue. First of all, the deadline for implementing the plan of environmental and health interventions is pushed forward, and that is a fact. Any buyers - i.e. those interested in purchasing - will have the right to propose an alternative, i.e. to renegotiate the AIA as they wish. Then, a committee of experts will have one hundred and twenty days to examine and meanwhile are thrown away EUR 2.5 million multiplied by 120. At the end of this step, any buyers will be informed of the results of the analysis of their proposals. Buyers will be able to say yes or no: at some point, one or more potential buyers will say yes and make a binding offer. At that point the ball will pass to the Ministry, which will make an award decree. Will it be over then? No, it won't be over, because the buyer will say to put black on white as he wants to do what he claimed to accomplish. In other words, the possibility of further renegotiation will be reopened. This further phase, in which we will still talk about how we intend to do things, must not be there. If the potential buyer has said what he wants to do, just do it, period. He must have already proposed a plan, which is called an executive project. For whatever work an executive project is made, but you do not ask. Let's move on: the money issue is not over. There is the issue of the EUR 300 million of state funding given to ILVA. Extraordinary Commissioners used 200 of these EUR 300 million and also requested two lines of credit, for a total of EUR 330 million, the sum of which is EUR 530 million, which should have been spent on environmental and health protection measures. Well, of these EUR 530 million, EUR 860,500 was spent on that and as many as EUR 529 million out of 530 was spent on another. The moral is that they have been spent to pay the suppliers or, if necessary, to plant adjustments. Therefore, those who come to tell us that the European Union will not be able to say anything or that the infringement procedure is not yet closed are only lengthening the time, because in fact the ILVA decree-law in our examination does this: you are buying time, making it pay to Italian citizens. That is what you are doing. But sooner or later reality will reach you, indeed it will overcome you, and you will slam our faces at us. This will happen. Let's talk about the 300 million. First, those who bought ILVA should have returned them; now the extraordinary administration, which is not a legal entity, is not a srl, is not a snc, is not a public limited company. It is nothing, but it has contracted a debt to the state of 300 million and has spent it, so it cannot repay it, because the commissioners are neither civilly nor criminally responsible. So I can't take them to court and ask them for $300 million. Do you know his name? It's called a bad company. You have created a fictitious society, which does not exist legally, which is responsible for those 300 million and which will never be able to return them. The Italian citizen thanks heartily. Now we are also talking about the plant itself, because many lies have been said here, for example it has been said that we continue to say 'no', 'no', 'no' and we never say what we want. I say that at a time when I say no to something burning in ten minutes the salary of a worker's one year, I do only one worthwhile work; indeed, this should not have been said before. But I'm surprised you're complaining about this. You continue, with your constitutional reform, to say that you have to change to make economic reforms. Well, your change on this subject has become the purest reaction. You are not conservative: you are reactionary, you are restorers, clinging to a dinosaur. That's what you are. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You have spoken of the need for a different constitution for economic reform, such as industrial planning. Then do it. You could do it with this decree, without the need to change the Constitution, but you did not. This means that constitutional change is also just a pretext, smoking in the eyes of citizens, but also yours, of course, eating bread and smoke, as my colleague Elena Fattori said at another time. Evidently you like the smoke without the roast. I'd like to say something else. When you fill the mouth of Taranto and the workers, remember this: the ILVA, it is true, produced steel, which has become partly stainless steel and which has filled all of Italy. When you cook pasta and use a stainless steel pot made of ILVA steel, remember that that stuff dripping blood there. You are eating with red pots of blood and red pots of blood: the blood of the people of Taranto. In Taranto there are 200,000 people who suffer the effects of what you do here, to save 11,000 jobs. But if your problem is these 11,000 people, with social shock absorbers you would definitely spend less. It is a question of future vision and instead you are clinging to the past. How much does it cost to maintain these jobs, in health and environmental terms? Whatever, of course. But let's move on. What do we propose for the future, since that is the past and should only be forgotten? You fill your mouth with the fact that you have to do research and innovation. Well, mass steel production is something that no longer makes sense in Western Europe. We no longer have this need to build, build and build; China has it and India has it, but we do not have it. That's why Chinese production is ultra-competitive compared to ours. ILVA is out of the market from any point of view: it cannot produce profits and will never be able to do so again, because China intentionally produces in dumping, i.e. below cost. Even so, your European Commissioners, who defend so much, have proposed that China should also be granted market economy status, with the result that we will no longer be able to impose duties on China. So, since this is something out of the market, you have to think about something that makes sense now and that didn't have it before: it's called economy of scale. The large iron and steel industry was used to have an economy of scale in production. Now there is something called additive manufacturing that allows industrial parts to be produced in an impossible way in another form: aeronautical parts, where technology is at its maximum. Well, one of the ideas we have, once we've worked for a hundred years to dismantle what's there, is to do a nice digital manufacturing district. Another thing that needs to be done in that area is a program of pollution. We are at the forefront of nuclear decommissioning; we can also become at the forefront of chemical decommissioning. This is thinking about the future; instead, you think about the past. I'm closing by saying one last thing. I have looked at employment figures: unemployment has increased in the tarantino over the last five years and, in addition to the unemployment rate, it has risen to 47%. So the ILVA has not solved and will never solve the employment problems of that area. So it's time to move on, stop with the past. You are dinosaurs, and the dinosaurs are extinct; you must also be extinguished. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u40	I wish everyone in this House a long life.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u41	[[Comments of Senator Montevecchi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u44	GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are faced with a decree-law concerning the ILVA of Taranto: we have been at the eleventh since 2012 and five have been launched by the Renzi Government. We are talking about an enterprise with an ultra-decent history, an important reality of our country that boasts all its production sites only in our territory and that gives work to almost 15,000 compatriots, of which 12,000 in the site of Taranto. We are talking about a company that the Government itself has rightly defined as a national strategic interest, given the key role it plays not only for the steel industry, but also for the entire Italian economy. We are talking about a company that is the symbol of our excellence in the world, so much so that it is the largest production site in Europe in its sector. Yet ILVA continues, decree after decree, to proceed in a confused and inadequate way, thus determining serious repercussions both in terms of employment and economic for the company itself, for the companies of its induced and for our economy. This measure reaffirms the same way of working as in the past, and in fact there are clearly various aspects which make it unacceptable. The first of these is its unconstitutionality, both for the choice of the decree of urgency and for the violation of the principle of equality of citizens before the law. In fact, as was widely described yesterday by the question referred by Forza Italia, the measure is completely lacking the requirements of necessity and urgency necessary for the use of this legislative instrument. It is only Palazzo Chigi who wants muscle confrontation with Parliament to deprive it of its constitutional prerogatives and gag it with yet another confidence. Precisely the number of trusts constitutes one of the two records that this Government can boast of; the other is the public debt. To date, the Commission has put fifty-eight of them in two years: a shame, if compared to the fifty-one of the disastrous Monti Government and to the only forty-five requests from the last Berlusconi Government, but in a time span of three years and not two, as the current Government has done. Another reason that makes this decree inadmissible is the decision to grant full impunity as well as to the extraordinary administrator, also to the buyer and his delegates, thus placing them above the other citizens, in full contrast to Article 3 of the Constitutional Charter which establishes, instead, equality before the law. This extension of the legal shield, in fact, determines an area of shadow of the law, in which the principle of mandatory prosecution is prohibited, causing a profound indeterminateness on what are the limits and above all the responsibilities of the subjects. A very dangerous precedent in criminal matters, especially for a country like ours, which sees legal uncertainty as one of the greatest problems of competitiveness of our companies vis-à-vis those of other states. The fact that we want to insist on the extension of the beneficiaries of this impunity raises the doubt that this rule serves, as usual, to protect friends' friends in order to cover the inability of the current extraordinary administration or, worse, the management of future buyers. And so, as the great statesman and well-known former member of this House said: It's a sin to think wrong, but it's often right. Another reason why this measure is unacceptable comes from the total indifference of the Government towards the families and the territory of Taranto. Expecting an extension of 18 months of the deadline for the implementation of the Environmental Plan and for the rehabilitation of the ILVA and any other fulfillment related to it, compared to the previous deadline scheduled for June 2017, represents a slap to those who for years have been tormented by health and environmental problems and who will have to wait until 2019 to have protection of their health. [[Applause from Senators Rizzotti and Mariarosaria Rossi]] In addition, I find it inexplicable that, in times of spending review, it is possible to authorize ARPA Puglia to employ permanent staff to cover future supervisory, control, monitoring activities, thus doubling the current functions of ISPRA. In the same way, not a few doubts raises the clause that involves the Environmental Energy Services Fund as cover of the charges deriving from the 400 million paid to the extraordinary administration in 2016. A rule that, according to the statements of the Authority for Electricity, Gas and Water Services, could cause increases in bills for Italian citizens. It is true that history is made up of courses and resorts and the left knows it well. Just like Prodi, just over twenty years ago, through the IRI, he had put into liquidation the then Italsider, today the same left with the ILVA, charging the debts to the Italian families, is retracing similar solutions. In the light of what has been described so far, it can only be seen that this Commission prefers communication with effect to the concrete effects that a good measure could have brought. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] But after all, this is the Government of the false reform that abolishes without ever abolishing, as done with Provinces and Senate, that governs without having asked the consent of the citizens, in fact it has not passed from a popular consultation, that proclaims but does not make the facts, because it continues to procrastinate the decisions. In short, it seems to me that the Commission behaves like the Tancredi of the Tomasi Gattopard of Lampedusa, who wanted to change everything so that nothing would change. But unfortunately we are not in a novel: the country, the citizens and our economy need real interventions in order to be able to recover and not enough the "zero comma" to pursue the growth we need. This is not the government that the Italians deserve and it is certainly not the government that they have chosen, and that is why I am sure that in the next referendum the citizens will express a firm and convinced no to the false reforms and false promises of the Executive. The same does not, for the reasons set out above, express us at Forza Italia to this umpteenth and unjustified request for confidence on a measure that has certainly not been launched in the interest of Italian citizens and in the interest of the whole country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] (at 11.15 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u47	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion too, once again discussing the ILVA affair, the attention of many Members has been drawn more to the appalling debate on the accounting of decree-laws issued in recent years than to the future of that industrial reality and the complexity of the issues connected with it. In fact, just the repeated legislative initiative that was used after the intervention of the judiciary of that 26 July 2012 (just yesterday four years ago) is confirmation that we are faced with what, in my opinion, is the most serious industrial and environmental crisis today opened in Europe and, at the same time, the fate of 15,000 jobs, between direct and indirect and the main steel plant in Europe where one third of the national steel needs are produced. Because we're talking about this, not an ordinary affair. In this debate, in which there has been no lack of succumbing to inconclusive rhetoric and full-handed demagogy, to which - I must say - my five-star colleagues have also shown in this House, in these hours, some predisposition, we strongly and consistently claim the effort, certainly not without errors and approximations, made in recent years: an effort aimed at keeping together - I repeat: to hold together - the environmental and social emergency of an entire city with the need to save and exploit a decisive piece of our manufacturing system, to which Italy cannot and must not give up. We chose the path we knew to be the most difficult and ambitious together. Others have invoked, also on this occasion, shortcuts and simplifications, useful only to brandish the flag of one of the parts of this so complex story, feeding faultily a renewed as anachronistic dichotomy between environment and industry, between health and work, that Italy and Taranto have repeatedly shown to want to overcome. I would like to invite them for a moment and all of us to reflect on what the scenario would be today if Government and Parliament had not intervened: a corporate complex seized and firm, many thousands of workers struggling with social shock absorbers and without any future of stable reemployment and the prospect of the same environmental rehabilitation of the industrial site rendered practically unworkable by the lack of resources and the failure of any link with the productive and business continuity. The reality, instead and fortunately, is that this scenario has been averted in recent years also thanks to the interventions covered by the various decree-laws and today in Taranto and for the Ilva there are very different perspectives, although not yet satisfactory, compared to the narration that the Opposition Groups wanted to tell. I will quote a few facts very quickly. The environmental plan approved in 2014 is being implemented, so much so that 112 requirements have been completed and another 58 are being implemented, also thanks to the resources anticipated by the Government, as was recalled yesterday evening by my colleague Mirabelli. The productive recovery of the plant in Taranto has been assured that it has returned to produce between 5 and 6 million tons annually. Not a single worker was fired thanks to the skillful use of social shock absorbers in turn. A step-by-step plan for the payments of credits to the undertaking has been launched, while regular payments are guaranteed for the ongoing activities. The same environmental interventions are giving the first results: the city of Taranto is protagonist of the first Institutional Contract of development, to which approximately 800 million euros of public resources have been destined for the participations of infrastructure and reclamation of the city and the port. While we speak it is in progress, to Palazzo Chigi, yet another encounter for the future of the 520 workers of the container terminal of Taranto. The action of the extraordinary commissioner for the reclamation, the environmentalization and the requalification of Taranto - we speak of the participations addressed to the city - is producing important results: the intense activities relative to the Deledda school of the Tamburi district have been completed and the intense activities of requalification of the other four schools of that neighborhood are being completed; the relative intense activities to the harbour areas are being carried out and the activities of characterization and analysis of the risks in many areas of the city and the Small Sea are being completed. Safety and management of hazardous and radioactive waste was initiated in the former Cemerad warehouse. Finally, what has probably happened in many people's hopes never happened: two groups of important companies and financial actors have formed, who have applied to make the future ILVA compatible. This has also seen the presence of large international companies, who are participating in the ILVA purchase process, thus denouncing the Cassandre who believed that this moment would never arrive. We are still far from the goals we set ourselves, but it is false and not honest to claim that nothing has happened in these years or that the situation in Taranto and Ilva is the same as four years ago. Moreover, the same decree-law that we are about to convert contains measures that are consistent in the effort made since the beginning, beginning with the changes that bind indissolubly and increasingly closely the industrial plan to the environmental plan and that constitute a greater protection against the standards of environmental respect and application of the so-called best available technique (BAT). A path is made even more transparent - as it may be said - by the establishment of a committee of experts, already established in recent days, composed of completely authoritative personalities for competence and independence and the more explicit involvement of public environmental agencies. Particularly significant, in this regard, is the standard approved to the Chamber by which the ARPA Puglia is authorised to hire permanent staff to ensure the necessary supervisory, control and monitoring activities and any technical investigations concerning the implementation of the environmental plan. Further measures, as pointed out by the rapporteurs in their illustration, are related to better clarifying, moreover, in line with the same indications of the European Commission, the modalities of the provision and reimbursement of the resources anticipated by the State and intended, in part, to guarantee the continuity of production and employment (300 million) and, in part (800 million), totally bound to finance the environmental interventions: resources, the latter, on which the State will be able to take advantage in the name of the principle for which the polluter pays. With regard to these resources, it is indicative of the exploitation of certain positions, which have also been reiterated in this House, the succession of different and contradictory interpretations. We have listened to various thesis of the type: we are in the presence of gifts to private individuals who will buy ILVA (as if this were to happen for free), the state has put no money on environmental recovery (and we have seen that it is false); it is state aid and Europe will sanction us; you have expropriated private property. In short, we have listened to everything and its opposite. In fact, none of this: these are resources anticipated by the State with clear aims, which will come back into the public coffers in an absolutely linear and not at all random way. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have had the opportunity to follow closely in recent years the parliamentary path of the various legislative interventions and the debate that has accompanied them in these classrooms and in the country. I have great respect for opinions other than ours about the goodness of this as well as other measures, provided they have the intelligence and, if I may say so, the humility to try with the merit of the measures taken from time to time and with the complexity and drama of the matter. I continue to find, instead, some tones and arguments frankly uncommendable for demagogy and the wishful thinking well, if I may say so, without any credible alternative proposal to what has been done so far and of that we can only take note: obviously we do not want to grasp the complexity of the challenge that we have before us. The outcome of this challenge will be decisive, not only for Taranto and for such a significant part of the world of work and our manufacturing, but for the entire Italian industrial history. Our country has long chosen to try to decline a modern industrial policy based on the sustainability of production processes and on full consistency with the objectives of respect for health and the environment. ILVA can and must be the tread of a new technologically and environmentally leading steel industry on the global market. In these years, and again with this decree, we have always been inspired by a stubborn political and institutional will to keep these objectives together and, in particular, the productive continuity with environmental recovery: not recognizing it, even before it is honest, is a huge mistake. For these reasons, with the same determination, we will continue to work incessantly for the future of Italian industry and for the good of the workers and citizens of Taranto and, precisely to bring this future as close as possible, the Senators of the Democratic Party will vote with conviction in favour of the conversion into law of this decree-law and renew the confidence to the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u49	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u50	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide from you a form of uneasiness directly linked to the fact that we are voting on yet another decree saves ILVA, a measure that retraces paths and solutions unfortunately already seen. My judgment on this decree-law is sceptical and suspicious of the approach, which does not lay the foundations for credible and sustainable industrial options, both economically and ecologically, in the steel sector. By analogy of matter, being from Trieste and actively dealing with the problems of the Ferriera di Servola of the Arvedi Group, I followed closely the story of the Taranto steel plant where, despite attempts, however, it was not possible to resolve the environmental, health and work conflicts existing between the industrial reality and the population involved. I believe that with regard to the city of Taranto - but I can also demonstrate this in the case of Trieste - the indicators of health and quality of life leave no doubt. ILVA puts before us a theme that we sometimes tend to ignore. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u51	Excuse me, Senator Battista. I would pray to lower the tone of conversations to allow you to listen. I can't hear Senator Baptist's words.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u52	You're welcome, Senator. BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I am referring to the obligation to balance the right to the protection of human and environmental health with that of the right to work and with the freedom of enterprise. What I am asking of this House today is, yes, to create the conditions for doing business and environmental rehabilitation but, at the same time, to recognize and evaluate, within this balance, the health and quality of life results for the inhabitants of Taranto, first and foremost for those living in the Tamburi district. We know that the European steel industry has long been in crisis and needs to be rethought, much more deeply than the Tajani plan for steel has done. In this context, the situation of ILVA stands out for its uniqueness. For these reasons, I believe that the conversion of this decree-law, like all emergent interventions, is nothing more than an incomplete solution, even if necessary, for a more complex industrial policy which I hope will soon find a definitive solution. On the contrary, for this reason I ask the Government to open a discussion of merit, that sees us engaged in examining proposals that modify or favor an eco-sustainable conversion and a real modernization of the existing industrial structures, making experience of technological and industrial innovation in key of economic and strategic sustainability for the country. We need solutions that do not affect jobs, do not harm people's health and contribute, as far as possible in the present situation, to the revitalization of the steel industry in full respect of experience, including Community experience. For these reasons, with deep regret, I am not going to take part in the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u54	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u55	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, I shall vote in favour of this measure, although with great reservations. The reserves, however, must start from afar, from 1904, when with 12 million lire (that was the value of the first ILVA) a whole chain of state aid has begun. I refer, for example, to when in 1904, Law 351 for the economic recovery of Naples allocated several funds and Genoese financiers and other speculators sniffed the deal. And then when there was the first crisis, in 1907, and it comes to the creation of the steel consortium; when the Italian Commercial Bank understood the strategy and the value of what would be the ILVA and took over the property and then passed it to the IRI. As has been said, when Prodi resigned the IRI stakes by creating the bad company and selling off the ILVA, which was then called Italsider, the damage had already been done. Let us say immediately that in 1995 the emission values were not even adapted to the requirements of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 203 of 1988. The dead have therefore been there, but the killer has been the State, because the greatest effects that can be demonstrated today in Taranto are not attributable to dioxin fumes, which are irrelevant, since those emissions start from 2006 and therefore there are no technical times. We must also go into the matter and not make a pot pourri. It must be understood that, for example, only trichloro-dibenzo-dioxin has carcinogenic properties, while other dioxins are not carcinogenic. Thus, the effects are basically attributable to PAHs, coke oven fumes, but these came from previous blast furnaces. Having said that, we must first of all invest to bring the plants into line, because we have the technological possibility of doing so. I have heard gruesome speeches: it is not that if we buy steel that comes with ships we pollute less. Let's give a more global talk, let's go into the details of the issues: when IPA falls, at room temperature, they are liquid; iron powders can get dirty and ugly to see, but they are heavy, they fall, they are not breathable and they are not carcinogenic. What does that mean? That you have to make an important investment, but we can't invest if we don't give someone the responsibility and the commitment to do so. Otherwise, we will find ourselves hurt and mocked and we die even without work and poverty. Moreover, if we were to close the ILVA due to the excess of cancer cases in the area of Taranto, then we would have to close all the factories in Lombardy and Veneto, because there the incidences of cancers are greater and demonstrated. What are we talking about then? Do we want to invest in prevention and clean-up? Let's do it, but with certain criteria. Let us give responsibility to those who do the AIA and distinguish it from those who undertake the economic commitment, because they are different concepts. There is the possibility of doing good and doing bad and when there is this possibility, it is in everyone's responsibility to do things in the most transparent and rational way possible, but this is not done to sound populist headlines in the newspapers, which launch alarms when there is no foundation, it is done on the basis of concrete data. This also means paying attention to Ilva workers, while more attention has been paid to external media effects than to workers themselves and plant safety. It means putting a block on the tertiary sector, because workers who die in ILVA are not ILVA employees, but employees of the tertiary sector, while such a strategic and important company cannot have external subcommissions. We must pay attention to the industrial plan, with a vision that has always been lacking, in order to reconcile economic development with the protection of health and the environment, because today, if we want it, it is possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u57	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u58	ZIN (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, without prejudice to the goodness of the observations made by Senator Romano in the Group's explanation of vote on the principle and constitutional profile of the measure, the MAIE component will not participate in the vote in line with the historical and political position of the Italian Association Movement abroad, which does not share the abuse that this Government makes of the use of the instrument of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u59	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u60	I refer to the vote on the single article of bill No. 2483, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 98 of 9 June 2016, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, the senators members of the government, ministers Giannini and Pinotti and vice minister Nencini. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Villari is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Villari. SIBILIA, secretary, makes the appeal. Yes, the senators answer: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Auricchio Barani, Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Casano, Cattaneo, Chiti, Cyrinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Compagnone, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippino, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghiosio Stefano Fabbri, Fasiolo, Favero, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippino, Filippin, Fincino, Fincino, Fino, Fingori, Fingori, Fingori, Fingiori The Senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Archeri, Arrigoni, Augello Barozzino, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bocca, Boccardi, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cardiello, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagna, Consiglio, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, De Siano, Di Maggio, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Fasano, Fattori, Ferrara Mario, Floris Gaetti, Galimberti, Gibiino, Giovanardi, Girotto, Lezzi, Liuzzi, Luciuzzi, Lucidilano, Malcolini, Malcolini, Malcolini, Fatto, Palario, Palario, Mantelli, Mantelli, Mantelli, Martelli. The senators are abstaining: Conti D'Anna. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2483, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 98 of 9 June 2016, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 275 Senators voting 272 Majority 137 Favorable 168 Contrari 102 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 98.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u61	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2345, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 21 July the rapporteur carried out the oral report, the general discussion took place and the rapporteur gave up his reply. I would ask the government representative if he intends to intervene in response. Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u62	Mr President, I have tabled two amendments to Rule 5: I intend to withdraw them both by tabling an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u63	We take note of that. Amendments 5.3 and 5.5 are therefore withdrawn and transformed into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u64	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 5.7. We believe that, with regard to certification and traceability, the intervention from the Polygraph Institute and Mint of the State can be decisive, because, with the use of electronic and telematic elements, this traceability can guarantee the origin and, of course, the goodness of the goods. We believe that the Senate can interpret the need to protect products with a controlled designation of origin, a designation of origin of the product, the so-called TG, or traditional specialities guaranteed, etc. 12:27 a.m. (Liuzzi followed). It is therefore an amendment which delegates the possibility of producing and installing electronic technologies to the State's Polygraph and Mint Institute to guarantee consumers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u65	Mr President, in Article 5 we have tabled several amendments and so many agendas. The latter are published in the file as Commission agendas, but of course they have a matrix and a root that takes them back to our political group, which has presented them. They met with the Government's favourable opinion and were therefore published in the file as the Commission's agenda. I refer to G5.100 and G5.101. What are we talking about? In Article 5, we have included a subject which is not new to the debate in this House, nor to the opposition between our vision of agricultural policy and the protection of the agri-food supply chain in relation to the positions of the European Union. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the production, processing and main or secondary ingredients of the product are one thing; another is the identification of the processing plant. In the specific case, the G5.100 agenda commits the Government to assess, in compliance with European legislation, the mandatory labeling of the origin of the primary ingredient, following the results of the public consultation and pursuant to Article 39 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, in order to ensure the correct and complete information, the health of consumers and the protection of the operators of the supply chain as it is important to give maximum transparency. Mr President, I would like to see a serious reflection by the Government on this point, not only, as is proposed on the agenda, to assess whether the indication is compulsory, but also to commit itself to opening a serious debate in Europe and finally to putting an end to this differentiation, whereby, in the end, products not defined in their Italian matrix but in their commercial matrix are protected. I'll explain. We are interested (and with this agenda it is well specified) that what is produced in Italy is indicated as a product in Italy, that the main ingredient is indicated clearly and clearly. In fact, too many times we find ourselves with products that give the idea of being produced in Italy but, in reality, contain primary ingredients from other countries. If the protection of the agri-food supply chain makes sense, this cannot be confused with trade. If there is a product, it must be cultivated and bred in the territory from which, as stated, it comes and must be marketed with those indications. With the agenda G5.101, the Government is committed to guarantee, in accordance with public finance balances, on the entire national territory, special surveys for the identification of the presence of ESMA and its metabolism AMPA and to intensify controls on food products, in order to protect the consumer and his health. We must be careful, because we must not forget that agriculture needs cultivation. I am thinking, for example, of the entire rice chain, which is already under great pressure for massive imports of products from the Far East, which, if not protected also in terms of the methods of cultivation taking into account the necessary production techniques, is likely to be in difficulty. It is therefore appropriate for the Government to monitor this situation, but also to give serious consideration to the restrictions coming from the European Union. If not, within a few years we will find ourselves without more rice fields, but with corn or soy meadows, of which we would gladly do without. We prefer that the territory be maintained with rice crops, as it has been done for centuries. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u66	The remaining amendments and agendas submitted to Articles 1 to 5 shall be set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u67	Mr President, I am against the amendments tabled in Article 1, as well as on the agendas for G1,100 and G1,101. I also object to all the amendments tabled in Article 3. On the agenda, Mr G3.100, which was accepted by the European Union's Political Commission, I welcome this. I am against all the amendments tabled to Articles 4 and 5. I am in favour of the agenda G5.100 and G5.101 and against the agenda G5.102 and G5.103. As regards the agenda, Mr G5104, first signed by Senator Donno, the opinion is in favour, provided that, in the last paragraph of the preamble, the words: 'fisheries' are deleted. Finally, the opinion was in favour of the G5.5 agenda (already amendments 5.3 and 5.5).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u68	The Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u69	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u70	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u71	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title to other session. (The sitting was suspended at 12.37 p.m. and resumed at 12.57).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u74	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to bring to the attention of the House the tragic disappearance of Senator Delogu, something that has deeply affected me. He was one of the members of this Assembly from 2001 to 2013 and participated in the work of the XIV, XV and XVI legislature. Other Members have heard the sad news and, perhaps, better than me, they could have spoken in this House about the presence of Senator Delogu in the legislatures that preceded the present. Among these there is Maurizio Gasparri who, with me, shared the condolences for this news and who, moreover, was a militant, like Senator Delogu, of the party of National Alliance. For us Cagliari - for this reason I have the pleasure of remembering it in this Assembly - Mariano, as he was called, was the mayor of Cagliari from 2001 to 2011. Under his mayorship many works have been carried out in our city, which have certainly modernised and embellished it, with important public works of renovation of entire neighborhoods, especially of the historic center. He is not only remembered for his public works, Mr President, but also for his presence in restructuring or important activities in the immaterial world: I am referring to culture and to the numerous interventions in favour of culture and the social world. He was a person known and appreciated by all Cagliari and all Sardinians. He was also very much appreciated for his belonging to the sports world. He was President of Cagliari football company, he was also advisor to the Italian Football Federation for many years and was in the Grand Jury of UEFA. He is therefore a person who, even in the world of sport, has left an important witness. Mr President, in addition to that, I must say that in civil life he was a well-known criminal lawyer. Many of the trials, which for many years have occupied and marked the chronicles of our island, have seen him protagonist in the field that belonged to him, as a criminal lawyer of great fame. I express my personal condolences to my wife Lia, to her children - Massimo and Roberto are both lawyers - and to all the family members and I believe that this condolence must also be expressed by the House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u75	On behalf of the Presidency and on a personal basis, I wish to express my condolences, having been lucky enough to know him personally.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u78	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I followed this morning the death of my colleague Mr Mariano Delogu, whom I had been bound for many years - since I started my profession - by a sincere and profound friendship as well as an esteem for his professional and human qualities, which have marked his entire career and his life. My colleague Emilio Floris has already described the figure of Senator Delogu: he was a person with extraordinary human qualities and objectively out of the ordinary. When I met him he was already lawyer Delogu, an extremely well-known figure in Sardinia, protagonist of many important trials in the history of Sardinian lawyering. I must say that the approach with my younger colleagues was always very humble and modest, with a capacity for comparison that is rarely found in colleagues, if not in those with deep talents, as was precisely the lawyer Delogu. He held numerous positions and was a well-known person from all over Sardinia, having also been president of Cagliari. He is a man who has given so much to Sardinia, sport and politics. He was twice mayor of Cagliari: even on that occasion he was able to be appreciated by everyone for his closeness to the people, even to the most humble, and had started a great job to give a new look to the city. This was recognized to him, together with the great correctness towards all the opponents, qualities that made him appreciate, before the politician, the Mariano Delogu man. This was what always marked his life. I believe I can join in the demonstrations of condolence, on behalf of the entire Group of the Democratic Party, expressing my closeness to the family, to the wife Lia and to the three children, in particular to Massimo and Roberto, to whom I am personally bound by a deep friendship, because with them, both lawyers, I shared numerous battles in the judicial classrooms. Sardinia loses an important figure, which has been a reference point for many people. Beyond the diversity of political opinions, what was appreciated about this man was his humanity, his ability to be close to the people and his ability to confront himself. I would also like to mention another dowry of lawyer Delogu: a very fine irony, which he also expressed in his book "Vita da senatori": stories, anecdotes and myths. It is a book in which he speaks of his parliamentary experience and with which he brings to know many anecdotes, which denote as much humanity as I have already mentioned, as that very fine irony that has distinguished all his actions. He was able to find the nice aspect even in the most serious and sometimes dramatic events; he always managed to carry this ironic vein. Therefore, in confirming the closeness to all family members, I mourn the disappearance of a great man and also a great friend. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u81	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to associate my Group with the beautiful words of Emilio Floris and Giuseppe Cucca. There would be little to add, because they first knew Mariano Delogu (like me, however, but they from Sardinians to Sardinians) and know the moral, civil, political and, if you will allow me, professional importance. He was a great lawyer, a great criminalist, and was a great sportsman, with a huge love for the team of his city, the Cagliari, of which he was also president. He has been an extraordinary administrator and I believe that this must be recognised by all the political parties in this House, because mayors themselves, when they do their job well, I think they must have 360 degree recognition. We cannot always be spoiled by politics; political judgment is one thing, but judgment on administrations is another. Finally, he was a senator. Probably, of all his experiences it is the one that satisfied him less personally, but it has given many of us a chance to know him here in Rome, in the benches of Parliament, in the Senate and, as far as I am concerned, also for personal matters. I also heard this morning, in the early hours, about the disappearance of Mariano Delogu. I mean, he's demonstrated in the suffering of these months a great desire to live. He was a fighter until the end and never gave up, until the disease got the upper hand. I think it was very nice that the Senate Assembly wanted to remember this this morning, because it is a tribute to a person who really did his duty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u84	ANGIONES (PD). Mr President, Mariano Delogu was one of the parties who decided to say that he was one in his role as mayor and as a Member of Parliament. I want to remember him especially in his role as administrator of my city, Cagliari. I was the young secretary of the major opposition party of his junta, yet I always thought and my party always thought of him as a great mayor for Cagliari. I have always appreciated, in particular, his ambition to deliver a more modern city than he had found at the beginning of his mandate (in this by recovering the aspirations of his great predecessors, first of all Bacaredda) and the vision of a city with a national and European dimension. To Delogu and his junta we owe the beginning of a path that, over the years (in truth few), has allowed to give back to the citizens spaces that for decades had been removed to their use, the redevelopment of entire historical districts and a renewed sensitivity to the city culture in its various forms. We called him, in a bit derogatory in the game of the political parties, "the mayor of the gardens," but to Delogu in reality we owe a new, serious attention to the recovery of spaces of recreation and aggregation - especially of green spaces - for the citizens of Cagliari. A strong personality who also knew how to be tough with his opponents, but certainly transparent and free, therefore worthy of loyal respect. His disappearance is certainly a great loss for Cagliari and for Sardinia all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u87	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, I speak not only to associate ourselves with the mourning and closeness to the family for the disappearance of Mariano Delogu, mayor of Cagliari and parliamentarians, a first-rate Sardinian politician, but also to remember that with him began in Cagliari, with the new methods of election of the mayors, a season that progressively made that city grow as the capital of Sardinia and as an important city of our country. Because I think that he particularly wanted to play, more than anything else, that role of first citizen, and that the political function that he was most bound up with was that of the government of his city, which lived fully in the forms by which he knew how to appreciate and govern it. He is remembered as a man related to sport, but for what he represented in a particular way Cagliari in Sardinia and for the city that expressed the football team. In the following years he never moved away from that passion, which he cultivated with great commitment, with great dedication and also with important results. We want to remember Mariano Delogu for his efficiency and capacity as administrator, for his quality of commitment to political function and professional function, but also as a citizen of that Cagliari who knew how to live fully together with his friends and fellow party members, but also with the other citizens who in that city recognize themselves and who saw many, who also did not belong to his political faith, recognize themselves also in his function as administrator [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u88	I would like to say that, for agreements between the Presidents of the parliamentary groups, today's afternoon sitting will begin at 4 p.m. instead of 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-668.ana.u89	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I would remind you that, for agreements between the Groups, the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.15 a.m.
