ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 28 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2495, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected and the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u10	You have the right to do so. BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are almost at the end of a legislative process before the summer recess and I would like to express my personal thanks immediately for the work of the Commission, together with the convinced opposition of the Group of Conservative Reformists to this measure, which cannot be defined by an adjective, since it is a bad decree-law and a bad work proposed by the Government. Bad about the substance and the method but that, however, saw the activity of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate engaged in the improvement of the text. We believe, however, that this measure is a bit the summa of the idea of government, of an executive whose activity now seems to be bent only on the opportunism of the moment and the contingency of events and events. Even in the method, there is no longer any news of the use of trust, once again. But they should report and indignant, above all many colleagues, a couple of issues that are far from second-hand and are not just these days: the absolute contempt for the rules that govern the legislative activity. What does the present majority of this provision say? Is everything okay? Exactly as happens every time the parliamentary activity is now overwhelmed by the legislative activity of the Government. To that majority who once had a great display of words and lofty calls to respect the rules, I ask: do those rules no longer apply? What does the Government say about this decree-law that expresses its clear unconstitutionality in multiform regulations, enclosed under the fig leaf of an ecumenical denomination such as that of territorial authorities? In fact, it is an omnibus decree like so many that continue to deteriorate the legislative activity of the Government and - alas - also of Parliament. In fact, the balanced budget of the Regions, the financial failure of the Provinces, the natural disasters or those induced by man, the lyric-symphonic foundations and the bathing concessions have to do with an organic vision of the territorial authorities to which this decree-law addressed in the title? Perhaps this heterogeneity is understandable in the light of another disturbing aspect of the modus operandi of this Government, that is the absolute extemporaneity, the improvisation that becomes rule, that becomes law, alas. The measure under discussion is the last in order of time of the now innumerable evidence of what is the watchword of government action in dealing with the unfortunately many complex problems of the country. The password is only one: a commercial or at most a tweet. Well, the one under review is a tweet decree-law. This mode testifies to the inadequacy of an Executive that does not have an overall view of the problems of the country, so it is not able to create a homogeneous and stable normative fabric over time through which to intervene to solve the problems. In his equipment there are only the emergency, the patchwork, the postponement: never a punctual response or as punctual as possible to the many emergencies of the country that are no longer such, but are part of the everyday life of our institutions. What are, in fact, if not a patchwork, the rules on bathing concessions introduced during the examination in the House? With them, following the recent ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Renzi Government tries clumsily to do something about a long-standing affair involving a large part of the territorial economies of our country, but the only real result it gets is to still violate European legislation, probably exposing Italy to a new infringement procedure that will weigh on the pockets of our fellow citizens, obviously without resolving the problem. On the other hand, in the light of the recent ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, margins for negotiation with the Commission have been glimpsed; however, in order to do this we need to have the knowledge, competence and ability to intervene in the framework of the harmonisation of European regulations derived from the Bolkestein Directive in a precise, capable and functional way to the interests of our bathing industry, a very important industry, which has a history linked to the development of our maritime territories. However, I wonder whether it would not be appropriate to arrive at a true and homogeneous reordering, in the area of territorial authorities, instead of continuous disorganised and improvised interventions that have led to the definition of a legislation that is almost inextricable. Instead of facilitating the lives of local institutions, we are making it even more complicated. I therefore think that the marvel at the so-called public opinion which expresses a silence on this issue, which must obviously be read as an assent, must no longer surprise us. Perhaps, however, I forget that the times of polemics and roundabouts are now far away; today we are experiencing an emergency represented not so much and not only by the problems of our territorial authorities, but by a government that, unable to deal with the issues of merit, is limited to commercial and advertising interventions of this kind, which will not help any territorial agency to face the difficult season that is ahead of us, after having weakened the fabric of the local institutions. In fact, we wanted to do this precisely in the perspective of a constitutional reform that returns to centralize many competences, to make the life, needs and dynamics of the central state prevail against those of the territorial authorities, which instead represent a fundamental part of the history and public life of our country. For this reason, not only the one under consideration is a decree-law that resolves nothing, but it is a crumb launched to the territorial authorities, to which it will be removed not only competence, but also the nature and role of garrison closer to the citizens, of institutional reality linked to the control and the ability of citizens to measure how, through their taxes, services are provided. In the Boschi reform everything returns to a great state, with a huge belly but a very small head that will no longer be able to dialogue with its citizens. This is also the result of our vote against this decree-law, which not only does not resolve, but does not address any of the major issues currently experienced by local authorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u13	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, a great deal has already been said about the method of dealing with this measure, but one thing that perhaps escapes is the reason why we should do this. My concern - common to several colleagues, from what I have heard - is that while the title contains urgent financial measures for the territorial authorities and the territory (so finally it can be said that there is a measure that solves the many problems of the municipalities), going to examine in detail the text discovers a whole system that I personally call hallucinating. In the series: "Wait, there was this problem, I put this patch on him. There's this other one and I'll sort it out like this. Wait, there's these discontents and I'm doing this other thing. This provision lacks a coherent vision. The only coherence can be traced back to the fact that in November we have the referendum, so the objective is not to create too much discontent, to please as many people as possible. Moreover, this is the method used by Renzi. I really do not understand what this measure has to do with the very serious tragedy of Andria's rail confrontation, which is shocking to all of us, with the compensation of EUR 100,000 per victim. Maybe it's just one way, ugly, ugly, to make commercials: it's a hallucinating thing, in my view. But let us examine the method by which these trusts are used; there are confidences in the Senate and trust in the House, measures to iosa, which are often approved and after not two months are changed. The important thing is to do: we move, we smoke, we disrupt the lives of citizens, we make everything incomprehensible. A normal citizen cannot be autonomous in knowing the laws, but he needs a consultant and a lawyer. In fact, we have too many rules introduced in a confusing way, some in some measures and others in others. I also wonder what the lyrical-symphonic foundations or support measures for milk producers have to do with this. It's incomprehensible. But, again, perhaps the reason lies in showing the strength of a minister, who must have included his small rule to show off in the various conferences. Let us then look at the issue of earthquakes, which have finally - I say finally - been considered. However, the numerous amendments tabled by the Lega Nord Group, which had never been taken into account, are in evidence. It happens, before they were things not worthy of attention: "who cares about the flood of Veneto; who cares about the earthquake in Lombardy and Veneto". When we asked for the state to remedy this tragedy, we were told no, but now is the right time, because - I repeat - the referendum will come in November. And then there's also the Province system. We see, within the measure, rules for the failure of provincial administrations, re-determination of sanctions, financing of the fundamental functions of the Provinces. But, careful, who created the problem in the Provinces? Who created this situation for provincial administrations? This government. So don't tell me now that you solved the serious problem of provincial administrations when you created it. How many times have we pointed out, in the Commission and in this House, that a serious problem was being created? But no, we were saying things that were not true, things that only we saw; but now it is shown that what we said was true and that the problem was serious. Then there is the question of the municipalities: re-determination of sanctions for those who have broken the Stability Pact and for those who are in a state of discord. The government makes laws and claims that the Stability Pact must be respected and that funds must be cut off from the municipalities, because there is a serious economic crisis. However, it happens that there are good administrators, who respect the rules, who are conscientious, who know what it means to spend public money and therefore are thrifty, and instead there are administrators who don't care, who spend everything because they know that surely after the sanatoria will come and sanctions will not apply. Who cares, that's the concept. This Government has never cared about the virtuous Municipalities, the serious Municipalities, the Municipalities that administer the public resources in a truly prudent way. Whoever administers well in our opinion must be rewarded, while whoever administers badly must be sent home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There is no point in trying to remedy this later and saying that sanctions do not apply; action must be taken against these bad administrators. Another matter. We have just approved the measure on the accounts of local authorities; that was the right place to make changes. On the other hand, we find in this measure the amendments to the single text on local authorities in order to harmonise and simplify the rules. But how? Fifteen days ago we approved that measure, only fifteen days ago. No, it had to be included in this decree-law. I do not understand, Madam President, this way of acting. In our opinion, we must have a serious and organic project and not, as they say in my area, have the urge to be seen. I am noticing this and I am sorry, because the people are the people who pay for it. The problem lies with them. We are also paying attention to the rule on unaccompanied foreign minors, which is a serious, serious problem, which often falls to the municipalities. But this aspect is subtle, because now this rule is introduced, with which it is shown that the municipalities are unable to cope with the acceptance of these unaccompanied minors. What does the government do? It gives maximum authority to the prefect (so in the long hands of the state) to arrange the structures. What, the municipalities say they can't handle the problem? Whatever. The prefect has the authority to give a shit what the city wants. But who cares, this is the system used by this government. For all these reasons, we shall vote against it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u16	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I was appalled by a shudder of hopeful expectation when I saw that a decree was given to the work of this House with the title of support for the action of local authorities. I have been an administrator for a long time and so it really seemed to me an important fact, since our local authorities are experiencing not only a situation of stress due to lack of funds, but they have become the only reference of citizens, the most direct, the most immediate compared to the Regions and to a state that is felt ever further away when not even stepfather. But perhaps the holiday spirit has led the government to propose today the text to our examination, among other things with the added importance of having put the question of trust that - as we know - cuts every possibility of discussion and improvement on the text. It seems like the attitude of those who come to the House with their fins, rifles and glasses, as the song says, rather than with something serious and concrete. In fact, unfortunately, for the local authorities in the decree-law at our examination there is nothing or almost nothing. It is an omnibus decree in which everything has been inserted. Perhaps due to the rush of the approaching holidays, rules have been introduced on the dairy sector, standards for fire brigades and something for local authorities, but certainly not decisive provisions or that can help, but something very far-reaching. What emerges, overall, is not only the confusion of the intervention, the lack of organicity and therefore the unconstitutionality of a decree-law that, being excessively generic and covering too different sectors, cannot find compatibility with our Constitutional Charter, but once again - and as if there had been the need today the Government intervenes with determination on the concept - it is confirmed that this is the Government of Robin Hood on the contrary, this is the Government that takes away the poor to give to the rich, this is the Government that has fun to become beautiful with the banks, the insurances, the strongest lobbies that are wandering not only in our country but also in our continent, screwing up everything, canceling completely the ability to represent the needs of our categories and our citizens. In Article 11 another element is consumed which demonstrates the absolute contempt of the needs not only immediate but also of the survival of certain organisms. Article 11, in fact, provides for the adoption of the institutional agreement, which they would call of public finance, between the State and the Sicilian Region. Do you know what happened in the Sicilian Region? A professor such as Baccei was sent directly from Florence to play the role of Regional Councillor for Finance. They did the same, just over 2000 years ago, sending Verre to Sicily on a proposal from the Senate. Well, Professor Baccei arrived and used the same methods as Verre. In fact I could very simply tell you that Baccei is not a good person but you save the rest, as you could have said of Verre that he was not a likely person, as he was quite rapacious, but you could still save the Roman Senate that had sent him. No! They are men - today Baccei as Verre at the time - who use the strength, determination and power that comes to them from the central state to assume truly discomfortable attitudes and absolute disrespect not only in the confrontation of the Sicilians, but in the constitutional prerogatives of the Sicilian Statute. They have made an agreement that, in order to have the recognition of budgetary stability for the year 2013, the possibility of maneuvering in the following years is completely encased. And more is done; and it is here that the heel of the central state makes itself felt not only on the Sicilian Region institution, but on the face of Sicilians and Sicilians who today live a troubled moment of economic and employment crisis. The heel is nouned in this: several constitutional disputes had been initiated, since the Sicilian Region had to obtain about 5 billion euros from the coffers of the central state. Some of these appeals had already been won. Well, there is a transaction whereby, in exchange for EUR 500 million, Sicily must also withdraw the dispute initiated. If this does not happen, there is no recognition of the 2013 budget and must be declared the default of the Region. All this takes place on the eve of a motion of distrust, presented to the never-too-brained President Crocetta, without a move to the Regional Assembly. A signature is placed that has the bitter taste of blackmail, of not feeling like the interlocutors. The State once again presents this stepmother face; the Government proposes to us a measure that speaks of Municipalities and not of the tragedy that the Municipalities live at the moment - Senator Comaroli mentioned - respect, for example, the phenomenon of immigration. Don't say a word! An amendment was tabled which wanted to help the Municipality of Pozzallo to overcome the state of default and failure. The Municipality of Pozzallo is the outpost of our country in the Mediterranean, the one that is making the greatest efforts compared to immigration. And how do we deal with local authorities? With fins, rifle and glasses? Do we take care of local authorities by never entering into the realm of problems? After August, we will have September: our boys will return to the high schools still managed by the Provinces. What will you say to the Provinces? What will you say in this decree-law that can give peace to families and parents who send their children to school? Will they be maintained and cleaned before the start of the new season? What are you going to tell the schools that they didn't have a chance to have a warm-up last school season? What is this Government, which can boast of this name, which can be completely disinterested in the problems of the everyday life of the people that, I want to remind you, is always sovereign? To this majority, which supports the Government, which is also about to vote on blind trust without any opportunity to speak, I say that you will pay a high political price. To my Sicilian colleagues I want to say that it is not worth making ascaris through the Strait of Messina and forgetting their belonging to their territory. To the colleagues of the other political forces who support the government, I want to say that the morality of politics lies precisely in the fact that they never deny what they believe they have fought for. Today you convert a decree-law that is the denial of the electoral program that you proposed to the Italian people. I absolutely vote no to the confidence of this Government and the conversion of the decree-law, but there are representatives in the Great Autonomous and Freedom Group who will grant the trust instead. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u19	Mr Langella (AL-A). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of local authorities that we have been hesitating about last year could only be a starting point and not a point of arrival. This is the reason why perhaps the triumphalist tones that accompanied it seemed excessive, since before making definitive judgements it is necessary to verify the practical application well. In the same way, however, it is not necessary to judge negatively measures such as what we are examining today, because they represent small pieces that go hand in hand adding to the central backbone of the reform, in order to bring it to a regime. These steps are particularly important in the financial field, especially in the light of the complications surrounding the new architecture of local authorities and their different articulations. That is why, in addition to the criticisms that this measure has raised in this House, I wonder how we can blame provisions which, in fact, tend to make the municipalities breathe, affecting the municipal solidarity fund for those bodies that need compensation for the revenues deriving from the TASI and for which EUR 80 million are set aside. I am also thinking of the provisions for the Emilian municipalities affected by the 2012 earthquake, or - again - the provision for the postponement of certain terms in favour of municipalities that are at risk of failure to bear costs for compensation sentences relating to calamitous events and, again, the rules to facilitate the rehabilitation of institutions that have already declared the failure. Similarly, I wonder how I do not appreciate the provisions on budgetary constraints, which provide for the mitigation of the penalties imposed on local authorities which have failed to comply with the Internal Stability Pact for 2015. It is also worthy of note the establishment of the Fund for the provision of contributions for the early termination of loans and bond loans by the municipalities, with a total budget of 110 million euros for the three-year period 2016-2018. There has been talk of omnibus and commercials, but let us not forget that so many rules are the result of the acceptance of certain bodies of the Regions and the mayors. I quote, for example, Article 10, which transposes the numerous legislative proposals submitted by the Regions concerning the determination of modalities for the purpose of helping the public finance objectives of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. Someone called for more organic laws. I agree, but when these can be done. Let us not forget that, especially in recent years, in terms of financial measures for local authorities, we unfortunately have to deal with emergency situations. Wow if we forgot, because we would underestimate the fact, for example, that the municipalities are subject to their deadlines and that they have to comply with their rules, for example with regard to the reporting of the funding received for the implementation of works in partnership from Community funds. I could go further on this subject. I say this to point out that it is right that, when the need arises, the Government responds to the needs of the territories with measures that may seem to some to be deprecable or useful only for media operations. Personally, I'm not convinced. Planning and programming must be the compass for each administrator, but it is also a sign of good governance and good administration to have the right amount of flexibility to deal with ever new situations or requiring new answers. Of course, converting decrees-laws a few days after the summer suspension is not desirable, since, motivated by the need to avoid further shuttle passages between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, the government felt it had to resort to the confidence mechanism in order not to paralyse the path. This inevitably brings with it a vulnus for the amending powers of the Members of Parliament, who are unable to include correctives and improved amendments to the text. But it goes without saying that when there is no other alternative, if not the risk of beaching the measure for the closure of summer holidays, it is certainly necessary to adhere to the theory of the so-called minor evil. Since I am convinced of the goodness of some of the provisions contained in the measure and I know that some of them are widely awaited by the municipalities, provinces and regions, I am convinced that some will certainly have a positive impact in the territories. I believe that, in this particular case, the use of trust has been necessary. Therefore, in the light of these brief considerations, I am voting in favour of the Liberal Popular Alliance-Autonomy Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u22	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, the text on which the Government has placed trust is certainly full-bodied and contains a set of measures intended for territorial authorities which may seem disorganic, but which should instead be read in a broader context, i.e. together with those measures on which we have been working in recent times, such as, to name just a few, the one on the harmonisation of the budgets of territorial authorities and the law of stability for 2016. In our view, the measure has identified a balance point for the purposes of public finance objectives, and therefore with regard to the Internal Stability Pact, budgetary balance, the Solidarity Fund and the definition of the contribution of local authorities. The question of trust posed by the Government was therefore not motivated solely by reasons of urgency, although existing, but by the need to prevent an overall reversal of the measure, as approved at first reading in the House. From the structural point of view, those measures constitute urgent measures for the consolidation of local authorities in a state of financial distress, through the availability of financial resources intended for the payment of previous debts, through the granting of liquidity advances and the provision of a multiannual financial rebalancing procedure for local authorities where there are such significant budgetary imbalances that they can cause a financial disruption. In this way, even with the reform of the budget, we compete for a virtuous path of local authorities, on the basis of guidelines which certainly need to be flexible in terms of the diversity of existing situations. At the same time, however, uniform parameters are introduced for the system, at national level, and it is determined, always within a framework of compatibility, to return to local authorities, first of all to the medium and small municipalities, some managerial capacities, for example with room for manoeuvre, partly outside the expenditure ceiling, with regard to the recruitment of staff, with particular attention to welfare and flexible work. With regard to the mitigation of penalties imposed on municipalities which have failed to comply with the Stability Pact, we believe that cases should be carefully assessed in order to avoid rewarding administrations which have clearly failed to comply with the constraints imposed by proper management. During the first reading, the measure was supplemented and improved, although some issues remain open. We recognise, for example, that there has also been a partial compensation of the loss of revenue from excise duties from 2011 to 2014, for example from the Val D'Aosta Region. While, as special autonomy, especially as autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, we have placed the need to reiterate, in the implementation phase, what has been defined on the basis of the agreements reached between Government, Regions and Autonomous Provinces, in relation to the contribution to the financial rebalancing and for what concerns the objectives set by the Constitutional law on budgetary balance. The comparison with the Government resulted in the identification of the three-year fiscal law 2017-2019 as the seat, as stated by Minister Padoan, in which the Government also undertakes to address the solutions proposed by the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano for the use - according to the procedures and with the limits deriving from the general objectives of public finance - of the surpluses present in their budgets. The Government has shared the approach and the reasons for merit that we have put in a substantial way, on the basis of the consideration that, with the reform of Law No 243 of 2012, already approved by the Senate and currently under discussion in the Chamber, it has been established that since 2020 the Multi-annual Fund of income and expenditure is entered into the balance of local self-governments. The same law, as the Government has always specified, previews that the next law of budget for the three years 2017-2019, that it will be introduced to the Chambers before 20 October, regulates the transition in the three years that separate us from 2020, establishing quality and quantity of the progressive introduction in the balance of the Fund, so that it is compatible with the objectives of public finance. I would like to stress this particular aspect, because this is something that we consider essential, especially for the restarting of investments in our territories. We therefore trust in the Minister's words and in the swift resolution of the issue raised by the two autonomous provinces. For all these reasons, but also because of the importance of many of the measures envisaged in this text, the Group for Autonomies - PSI-MAIE will vote in favour of confidence. [[Applause from Senator Berger.]] 10:17 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u25	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, we shall vote against this measure for two fundamental reasons. The first is in its content, quite confused, as we had the opportunity to say in the course of the explanation of the question referred for a preliminary ruling. It is in fact a measure that entered the Chamber of Deputies with an already high complexity, with over 25 articles, and came out with 48 articles, thus adding complexity to complexity. It deals with important issues, including human rights issues. No one can escape the importance of the issue of unaccompanied minors and extraordinary reception measures. We are still talking about extraordinary measures of reception, in the face of a phenomenon that is not extraordinary, but has an ordinary dimension and is destined, because of the events that affect the areas affected by war events on the southern shore of the Mediterranean and the Middle East, to grow further and to be even more constant over time. It cannot be thought that, through a measure of this nature, action should be taken to regulate the reception of particularly fragile people, victims of heavy violence, psychological and material. We must do more and do better: that is, we must approve a measure concerning these events, which has a structural character, whose effectiveness is systematically monitored and which has in itself the fastest means of updating, in order to allow this civilised West to have the claim to export its own political customs and the methods of governing society, and to this ancient and so educated Europe, to do its duty to humanity. I am referring in particular to that suffering humanity, of which unaccompanied minors, who arrive on the shores and in the territories of our and other European countries, represent the peak of difficulty and discomfort. The second reason lies in the way in which this measure is approved. Once again (I have no longer counted them), the vote of confidence takes place after the House has been examined, often mortifying this House and this House, its committees and the senators themselves, full Members of this House. This is done by killing the debate at the beginning, i.e. not even going through that examination, which often animated the debate in Parliament, on the amendments to see whether it is possible, in any case, to improve the measure, at least in part, and to reach the vote of confidence only in the presence of a political opposition that would lead to unacceptable obstructions. Instead, here the extraordinary nature of the procedures is repeated in an ordinary way, clearly manifesting a profound crisis of our parliamentary political system, a crisis of unacceptable institutional behavior, including through examination, which is mandatory and which must be done by Parliament and also by this House, on the constitutionality of procedures and measures, on respect for the cornerstones of public finance referred to in the Constitution, in particular Article 81. It's pretty much a violation here. It violates procedures, it violates institutional political relations between the majority and minorities, it violates also financially, what should have been the ground on which the greatest control is carried out. And it is done - be careful - in the aftermath of the adoption of the new budgetary and public accounting rules. And this is done - I say this because we must be absolutely aware of it - not because here there is a Parliament and minorities that are in stark and systematic contrast with the proposals of the majority and the government. It is a few days ago, in fact, the adoption by a very large majority of the rules of control in the field of public accounting and the preparation of budgetary documents of the new budget law. This is done in the aftermath of a broad approval, however, of politically significant abstention, also on other measures. It is precisely in the idea that Parliament must suffer this type of violence and must suffer it passively, without being able to contribute with the intelligences and abilities it has to develop measures more suited to the needs and crisis that this country is going through. That is why, Mr President, we shall vote against the vote of confidence in the Government on this measure. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u26	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is 10.25 a.m. Today it is the thirty-sixth anniversary of the massacre of Bologna, one of the most dramatic terrorist attacks in Italy since the post-war period. The device exploded at this very hour, at 10.25 a.m., in the central station's waiting room. There were 85 dead and over 200 injured. The images of vast and violent devastation are imprinted in our memory forever. Once again, after the massacre of the Italicus train of 4 August 1974, the institutions and citizens found themselves united in the common effort to preserve the constitutional order and the legality, while living moments among the most difficult in the history of the Republic. Also thanks to the tenacious and decisive contribution of the association of the victims' family, a long judicial process began in 1987 to ascertain the truth about the massacre. The first final sentence for the executioners and officers accused of misdirecting the investigations was the judgment No 21 of the Court of Cassation in joined sections of 23 November 1995. This battle, however, cannot yet be definitively concluded: many questions on that August 2, 1980 still await an answer of truth and justice on the opaque and turbid interweavings that have caused innocent deaths and hindered the definitive reconstruction of the massacre. As the president of the association of the family members of the victims of the massacre, Paolo Bolognesi, has emphasized, it is certainly important that today the law no. 133 of 2016, which introduces in the penal code the crime of depiracy, as well as a specific aggravating circumstance for the case in which the depiracy is committed in relation to criminal proceedings related to crimes against the personality of the State, crimes of massacre and terrorism. I believe that this legislative intervention, of which the same association has become a tenacious promoter, can be considered the result of full cooperation between Parliament and all citizens who, as in the case of the family members of the victims and witnesses who have helped the reconstruction of the truth, have constantly offered the institutions, with courage and sense of the State, their contribution to the search for truth. I would like to renew the closeness of the Senate and my staff to all those who have been affected by this tragedy and I invite the House to observe a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u29	Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are examining is very complex. It is the result of a long amending work carried out in the House of Deputies, which stresses the need for serious consideration and resolution of the situation of local authorities. I believe that in this parliamentary term we have been careful about this situation and have legislated several times. The direction of the government's and Parliament's action had already been well aligned with the 2016 Stability Act, which marked the end of the time of the cuts and the overcoming of the old Internal Stability Pact with a balanced budget. With the amendments to Law n. 243 of 2012, already approved by the Senate last week, we also surpass a framework of inapplicable rules on the balance of the local authorities that would come into force from 2017, instead giving continuity to the rules of the law of stability 2016 and creating the conditions to put hand to the single text of the local authorities and in that place address the still open legal issues to go in the direction of autonomy, responsibility and simplification. With this decree-law we help local authorities, we improve their contingent situation. The measure poses itself as a maintenance intervention of the order on some issues that are in progress. Several are the highlights. There is a precise definition of the transition to the complete abolition of the Provinces: we need to guarantee, pending constitutional reform, some functions of the Provinces, which are weakening from the administrative point of view. On this measure - remember - there are 100 million euros of the ANAS Fund for the extraordinary maintenance of roads, which is an important function of the Provinces. They are capital funds: it is a dramatic detail, if you go to see the evolution of expenditure dynamics, the capital expenditure of these years of local authorities and public administration in general. The sanctions for the 2015 Stability Pact have been abolished for the Provinces. The same thing has been done for the metropolitan cities, which are emerging institutional realities and on which there was also a strong commitment with the ANCI: here, too, on the system of sanctions, there is the exclusion of the metropolitan cities for the overtaking of the Stability Pact on Skills 2015. With regard to municipal realities, which are also at a stage of legislative transition, I would like to remind you that the municipalities have been the strongest in these eight years of policies of public finance rigour; not by chance, they have been subjected to a Stability Pact which has often been considered unreasonable. After the Stability Pact planned for 2015, we are in 2016 in a balanced budget: this is therefore also a transition; for local authorities we have greatly mitigated the sanctions, for example, bringing them to 30% of the increase and excluding from the system of sanctions the expenses that belonged to school construction, which we have all considered a priority. For the municipalities there is also a derogation on recruitment for the staff of kindergartens and schools for children, there are contributions for the retraction of loans with the Deposit and Loan Fund, on the payment of penalties and blackberries. For all territorial authorities there is an improvement of the rules on failure and pre-dissement. In the field of personnel, the turnover is increased from 25 to 75 percent for municipalities under 10,000 virtuous inhabitants in the dependent-population relationship and mobility is unblocked in regions where 90% of the supernumerary staff of the Provinces has been relocated. Maintenance interventions have also been made on those rules that had put other governments in place, on the situations related to the earthquake of Emilia and L'Aquila: there are an additional 16 million euros for the Municipality of L'Aquila, and additional resources for the municipalities outside the crater, which have also suffered damage and which perhaps, at times, are put in a bit' shadow compared to the centrality of Aquila. However, here too rules that have responded to the needs of those territories that had made themselves felt. Just as the important, historical agreement with the Region of Sicily, which brings an advantage to Sicily in the mechanism between collection and verification of the IRPEF partnership, has been incorporated into the legal system. Today the Region of Sicily can boast the contribution of 1.4 billion euros to its budgets, which was the commitment that we had made in the law of stability. The decree-law further defines the restyling of lyrical-symphonic foundations, some of which represented an emergency, as stranded in the so-called rehabilitation paths; now we guarantee greater flexibility. I want to say, Mr President, that on lyrical-symphonic foundations perhaps the majority and Parliament must give further thought, because the foundation system is not sustainable in its present form, so it is pointless for us to continue to make buffer interventions. During the parliamentary examination, new topics have been introduced, which I believe are the heritage of the whole Parliament: the further possibility of debt repayment to Equitalia, which goes to help companies and families who have been in difficulty and who are unable to support previous installment plans; thus, a further chance has been guaranteed to those taxpayers who have difficulties. Just as the abolition of airport taxes is important to save many airports and to leave low cost lines that would otherwise go away. In addition, the recruitment of an additional 400 firefighters is an excellent signal for the protection of our assets and for the safety of our citizens. For the first time, a dispute settlement fund is set up for enforcement judgments relating to disasters or cases. There are rules that help to address the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors, who help the municipalities affected by the earthquake of Emilia, Lombardy and Veneto for the payment of taxes and contributions related to that earthquake, for the victims of the flood of Sarno and for the families of the victims of the railway disaster of Andria-Corato. Finally, we have managed to allocate compensation to those suffering from thalidomide syndrome, which we have been discussing for some time and which has seen the commitment of all the parliamentary groups. Finally, with regard to the discipline for bathing establishments, we have approved a standard bridge that allows us to go to a framework law, on which the Government has committed itself in Parliament directly, which can allow to have an extension, a transitional period, and to go to a public evidence that however is characterized by the transposition of the quality of investments, the value of the investments made by the beach operators and also of their professionalism. In short, in the measure that we approve today there are positive news for the territorial authorities, for the activities and the enterprises of some productive sectors, for the strengthening of some important services of the public administration, but above all for the citizens. For all these reasons, Mr President, my Group, the People's Area, will vote in favour of this measure and give confidence to the Government. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u32	MANGILI (M5S). Mr President, as usual, nothing new on the Western front. In fact, we are in the presence of the umpteenth decree-law by this Government and the umpteenth imposition of the question of trust. The decree-law was approved by the Chamber of Deputies last July 21, with a very overwhelming majority but also too calculated and will be again ratified here in the Senate without an appropriate and serious confrontation. They are now known to all the provisions contained in it: from the Internal Stability Pact to the Municipal Solidarity Fund, to measures for the territories subject to natural disasters and to interventions for institutions in financial crisis, to which further measures are added concerning staff of children's schools and nursery schools of local authorities, as well as health, environmental and agricultural measures. Among the novelties we find also the reopening of the installment of the fiscal debts: for the taxpayers who on the date of 1 July 2016 have fallen from the benefit of the installment of the tax debts is previewed the possibility to be readmitted to a new delay, submitting special request within sixty days from the entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree-law. This means that the government's chatting suppression of the collection agency is not real, but it is a further extension of the abolition of Equitalia: yet another postponement, a history that has lasted for four years. And again: with this measure it is established that local authorities that do not approve the forecast balance sheet, the consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated balance sheet within the statutory deadlines will not be able to employ staff, nor will they be able to stabilize workers who already cooperate with them. But what are the reasons why the institutions are late in approving these documents? In recent years it has become a real trend to postpone the adoption of the decision approving the forecast budget of local authorities, normally planned by 31 December of the previous year. This trend has now been consolidated, where initially the divergences were limited to the first quarter of the financial year; recently, however, they exceeded the first half of the financial year, thus reducing the programming phase more and more to a mere formal fulfilment. If, therefore, the reasons lie in the fact that there is no decision, at this point it means that there is no political will; which is worrying, because in doing so we continue to neglect the programming phase, essential to decide what to invest, how to invest and with which money to invest. The absence of programming frustrates the role of the budget itself and exposes local authorities to the risk of negative management outcomes. When we talk about the effects of the pathological extension of the provisional exercise on the management of each institution, we must have the courage to say that they are the fruit of the Stability Pact and of the budgetary balance. It is precisely these that have caused the disaster of local authorities, particularly the municipalities. Although it is said that the Stability Pact has been overtaken, it remains the fact that this, together with the budgetary balance, is increasingly restricting the possibility for municipalities to provide services to citizens. The obligation to balance the budget guarantees to citizens that the municipal body does not spend more than it has at its disposal and in the same way obliges the municipality to plan entirely as it intends to have the resources available to the citizens. But what can be today the spending capacity of a municipality if you see more and more tightening the belt? It is not normal that a citizen can no longer enjoy the water service or public transport efficiently just because the municipality where he resides has a budget hole! Hole, by the way, not always due to bad administrators. Today the municipalities are the ones that most of all are paying for the consolidation of the government accounts. The mayors, every day, must fight against the serious monster constituted by the high degree of uncertainty about their own tax revenue, uncertainty due to the difficulty for citizens to pay the garbage bill or the IMU. What we do know, however, is that this Government chokes some municipalities and saves others, allowing us to use the procedure of financial rebalancing. And, in fact, the decree-law, in Article 15, allows the municipalities that are on the verge of the failure to present a plan for rebalancing the budget, but above all to remodulate or reformulate it. In fact, in an all-inclusive decree-law, which includes everything, we could only expect some surprises. For example, the norm on Catania. The ax of the bankruptcy of the joint company, seems to depart definitively since the decree-law provides for the extension from 30 June to 30 September of the deadline to present, precisely, the plan of return, as well as the possibility to operate in a system of derogation from the single text of the local authorities, where there is talk of approval of the deficit and the debts off-balance-sheet. Exemption to favour someone rather than another. Only every time you derogate a rule, you basically delete it. This decree-law continues not to solve the many problems opened up by the Government's choices regarding cuts to local authorities, in particular to the Provinces and metropolitan cities, and certainly does not safeguard the community of citizens. And here I am reminded of Leonardo Sciascia's words: "The security of power is based on the insecurity of citizens." Today the opposition will face yet another question of trust, but trust either is full or does not exist! It doesn't exist for us. I therefore vote against the 5 Star Movement Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u35	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are faced with the 53rd trust placed by this Government in Parliament in its two branches on different draft laws, even on draft laws of parliamentary initiative, bearing witness to the fact that this Government not only does not trust the numbers of its own majority in the Assembly but, what is more serious, it does not have its own overall strategy of dialogue with Parliament and, consequently, not even its own overall strategy of dialogue with the country. The measure had to be censored ab origin for all its constitutional defects ranging from the plurality of the arguments, to the obvious violation of some constitutional norms. During the discussion on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, I explained the reasons for the unconstitutionality of Article 11, which concerns the understanding between the National Government and the Government of the Sicilian Region, and therefore I will not dwell on this, putting myself back to the assessments carried out. The decree-law, which, as I said, had to be settled due to defects of constitutionality, has a whole series of provisions that are not only jagged together, but also in the destination on the territory, which takes place according to suggestions and requirements, for charity, I do not say no, but all partial and limited to individual cases that are proposed to Parliament in the form of general rules that, in fact, concern specific needs. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni, who regularly carries out the important task of trying to bring the rules on local authorities to order. This, however, is frustrated both by the Government's initial proposal and by the insertions made to the Chamber, and finally by the fact that its good intentions and our absolute willingness to intervene together on the subject, in the end, are substantiated on agendas of the day, because the Senate does not have the right, the faculty, the possibility of being able to make changes to what was first established by the Government and then by the Chamber in the first reading. This is an application of a de facto reform of bicameralism, a misguided reform in its now transitional application that will be even more clumsier if the constitutional referendum should ever be defined, a reform of bicameralism that is truly the tomb of democracy and, above all, of the parliamentary institution in our country. We no longer have the opportunity to intervene on the legislative texts, despite the good will also of part of the majority and we must limit ourselves to the elaboration of some agendas, which leave the time they find and which, however, manifest a great insufferance on the part of all colleagues, of majority and opposition, on the impossibility of building a logical, rational and cohesive path with regard to the politics of the local authorities of our country. Once again no margin is placed on the postponement of the dates of approval of the forecast budgets: now, the practice is that our municipalities approve their forecast budgets, well that goes, in the last month of existence of the reference year. Some even approve the forecast budget in January with reference to the previous year. It is not possible to obtain from the Government an organic debate on these matters and, therefore, it is not possible to do so in Parliament either. The need for the government to go to the vote of confidence therefore depends on the fact that this coacervo of norms must necessarily be launched, because in the end there is some single entity - not to say some single person - that awaits the definitive enactment of the decree-law in order to solve some problem certainly of a collective character, but related to small collectives. Let us leave out the question of the variety of subjects. It is scandalous the theme of the inclusion, once again, in a decree-law on local authorities of changes to the legislation on symphonic lyrical foundations. With great difficulty we had paid - and we reiterate our opinion absolutely contrary in this regard - as many as 120 million euros to eight symphonic lyrical foundations of Italy indebted for the poor management of their boards of directors, directly issued by the municipalities and provinces, according to the partnerships. The most in debt, by chance, was that of the Florentine musical May, so the norm was also made (it is clear, in fact, that it was then necessary to meet the needs of all). On that occasion, we have, I say not achieved, but we have built a regulatory framework which, together with the enormous provision of money that was being arranged, also established a path of recovery. Punctually, this path has been disregarded and punctually, at spitches and bits, arrive the norms that allow, to those who have disregarded it and also to those who had previously caused the default of those institutions, to get away with it and to enjoy new normative forecasts. I say this to give an example. We are truly dismayed by this way of proceeding. I am referring - I repeat - not only to the imposition of trust, but also to the absolutely unacceptable content not so much of individual rules, but also to the whole context which, as I said, does not lead to the elaboration of a definitive planning for the management of the municipalities and puts in difficulties the administrators and, even more so, the citizens. In fact, in the end, new limitations and sacrifices are imposed on the municipalities and then the citizen mourns. In fact, we have a good saying that sometimes the law of stability provides for the impossibility for the municipalities to increase local taxes, but now we know that most of the services are provided by tariff and not by tax and, therefore, if the tax remains unchanged, the rates increase enormously. Moreover, very often the increase of the rates does not correspond to a requirement of the service, but ends up feeding a budget, which becomes deficit precisely because the local taxes are no longer sufficient to compensate for the continuous cuts to which the municipalities are subjected due to the effect of the so-called derivative finance. It is, therefore, a framework for the disintegration of local government policy, which is being asked to make mortal leaps in order to make the budgets square and limits are imposed in the use of their funds with strong sanctions, which are then removed and modified the following year, depending on who is the recipient. In fact, if it is an important Municipality or Metropolitan City led by the parties of the current majority, action is taken to avoid sanctions; while if the leadership is of opposition representatives this type of intervention is not done. Therefore, the instrument of the decree-law and of the single or partial intervention is also used, making a policy with the "p" tiny also on the territory, discriminating between one municipality and the other and between one institution and the other, depending on the political color. This is a very bleak picture of a local finance that does not find a solution, without even the will to make up the rules in a new single text. In fact, variations to the single text of local authorities are now endless, especially from the point of view of accounting. The other day we adopted a general rule on the budget of local authorities and, soon after, the first derogations and variations arrived. It's, you know, everything a government shouldn't do. On the contrary, we would really need a project and a different way of dealing with the local institutions and the government; without transcending absolutely sterile polemics, we would need to build a new and different policy for our local authorities, which this Government shows that it is not able to do, continuously and constantly, and this decree is a proof of this absolute inability. It is for this reason and for many other reasons that my fellow Members, Mr Boccardi, Mr Mandelli and Mr Bernini, have illustrated in general debate, that we will certainly not vote, also because the inconsistency of the content of the decree-law is added to the absolute distrust in this Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u38	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, senators and senators, the bill under consideration has been largely amended in the debate in the House during the conversion process; the Senate, despite the tight deadlines, has had a very detailed discussion in the Budget Committee, of which we find an important trace on the approved agenda. Many measures of this decree-law concern local authorities, to support them in their current problems, which are not simple. In particular, there are provisions on the Municipal Solidarity Fund, resources are allocated for municipalities and areas affected by natural disasters (including the municipalities of Lombardy, Emilia Romagna and Veneto affected by various earthquakes). In order to meet the needs of municipalities, provinces and metropolitan cities, sanctions for non-compliance with the Internal Stability Pact are reduced. For the Provinces, in particular, in order to make the budgets square, 148 million are allocated in 2016, of which 100 are aimed at their fundamental mission, together with the schools, that is, the extraordinary maintenance of the roads, and the remaining 48 million destined for other functions. In addition, rules are introduced to promote consolidation for local authorities in a financial crisis by granting liquidity advances to be repaid on the basis of depreciation plans. To this end, a three-year contribution of EUR 150 million is allocated to municipalities, provinces and metropolitan cities which declared their failure from 2011 to 2015, and an equal contribution for the two-year period from 2019 to 2020. The turnover block in the municipalities is loosed up to 10,000 inhabitants and, as for the teaching and educational staff of children's schools and kindergartens, a provision has been launched authorising the municipalities to carry out an extraordinary recruitment plan, which also applies to municipalities that have not complied with the Internal Stability Pact 2015. A dispute settlement fund shall be established for the first time in connection with enforcement judgments relating to disasters or cases. The municipalities will also be able to count, thanks to the provision introduced by the Chamber of Deputies with article 9-b, on 136 million in the three years 2016-2018. As you can see, contrary to what was heard in the debate, these are not spot speeches, but measures which meet specific objectives and concern all the municipalities. The same applies to interventions concerning the regions, which increase the National Fund for State financial assistance to the burden of local public transport (as we know, a very hot and open problem) and define how they contribute to public finance objectives. For the Regions, the question of the timeliness of payments of the debts of the institutions of the National Health Service and pharmaceutical expenditure has also been addressed, so that they can actually recover the resources entered in the budgets (and therefore can draw up the budgets). It is then implemented the agreement with the Valle d'Aosta Region and the commitments with the Sicilian Region are maintained with a pact that provides reciprocal commitments aimed at giving stability to the resources for this Region. If we want to find a key to the reading of this measure, it must therefore be identified in the attention to local authorities and to the various issues affecting municipalities, provinces, local authorities and metropolitan cities. The measure also contains other interventions: I do not list them all, but I mention only three of them, pointing out also to those of the opposition who have expressed very ferocious criticism, that if we had not proposed such interventions, we would certainly have been accused for not having done them and for failing to intervene on important issues. I quote, in this regard, the issue of state and maritime concessions, in which this concession is extended compared to recent interventions in Europe. I am also thinking of the possibility of delaying tax payments for citizens and businesses, which I think is a very important issue. Finally, I am thinking of the important measures relating to the cereals and dairy sectors, where the crisis has made intervention urgent. However, I would like to conclude with a more general reflection on the measure under consideration. This is not a random measure, which finds its precise place in the ongoing reform process of the system of territorial authorities. I just want to mention here two important measures, concluded in recent months: the overcoming of the Stability Pact for local authorities with the Stability Act last year and, just a few weeks ago, the draft law amending Law No 243 of 2012, which lays down new rules on the budget of local authorities and on how to achieve budgetary balance as an alternative to the Stability Pact. The common thread linking the various interventions contained in the decree-law in question is the solution of the problems that emerge in the current situation, in which it must be found, in particular for the local authorities, the Provinces and the metropolitan cities, a difficult balance between the needs of the reform, which are well highlighted by the measures implemented, and the strict constraints of public finance. It is not therefore a question of confused measures, clientele - as we have heard - or of seeking consensus, as much as of strenuous but necessary exercise of government responsibility, in order to advance a process of real reforms and precisely for this reason in need of progressive interventions, also to support moments of difficulties and problems and to correct any errors. An important part of these issues has been addressed in the measure under consideration; other problems remain open, especially to give certainty and sustainability to the budgets of our territorial authorities and in particular to metropolitan cities and provinces, as well as to municipalities and regions. We will continue to work on these issues, so that the attention of the Government remains very high. As I mentioned earlier, the Budget Committee unanimously approved, with the vote of all the parliamentary groups of majority and opposition, a very precise agenda, which puts these issues, on the further measures to be taken in this reform process, at the heart of the initiative of the Government and Parliament, starting with the next budget law. For these reasons, therefore, for the importance of the decree-law under consideration, for the importance of supporting the territorial authorities, for the importance of giving course and continuity to a process of reform very important for the whole country, the Democratic Party will vote with conviction the confidence to the Government, in order to approve the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the progress of the work, I would warn you that the sitting of this House, at the end of the vote on confidence, will be suspended until 3 p.m., in order to allow the Commissions to convene and complete the examination of the measures scheduled, including in relation to the request of certain groups to hold their meetings.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u40	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u41	I refer to the vote on the single article of bill No. 2495, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 113 of 24 June 2016, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Pinotti and Romano. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Morra is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Morra. AMATI, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amato, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Auricchio Barani, Battista, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianco, Bilardi, Bondi, Borioli, Broglia, Bubbio, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Cassano, Casson, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conti, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Anna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, Fatorini, Favero, Della Vedova, Di Biaara, Elcomo, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Falanga, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Favero, Favero, Favero, Di Ferrara, Fevero, Falini, Fevero, Fili, Fili PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2495, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 113 of 24 June 2016, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 262 Senators voting 261 Majority 131 Favorables 165 Contrari 96]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 113 are therefore excluded. I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.49 a.m. and resumed at 3.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u42	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2290, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Lenzi and others deputies; Gadda and others; Galati; Mongiello and others; Causin and others; Faenzi and others; Sberna and others; Manter and others; Nicchi and others, and 2320. The rapporteur, Senator Bertuzzi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's measure puts again at the centre of the political debate the theme of food, in line with the content inherited from Expo 2015. "Feeding the Planet, Energy for Life" as the symbol of the paradox that best represents the contradictions of our time. Excessive and scarce, too much and nothing, waste and saving, selfishness and gift, hunger and lack of competence, poverty and wealth are the paradoxes of an economic and ethical model that has designed the enormous imbalances of a world where goods are bought in some parts, and in particular food, but it is not always consumed and more often turned into waste, producing environmental damage and economic and social costs for communities. In other parts, however, it is not consumed because the food is not there and often it is not possible to produce anything and in those areas the impossibility to feed dominates the thoughts and actions of the entire existence: I am talking about a world in which 800 million people suffer from hunger and as much of excess nutrition. In the recent history of our civilization, economic development has banned hunger from our civilization, from our cities, from our countryside, from our lives, almost as vaccines have made many diseases disappear. Hunger, however, has not disappeared in the most degraded, marginal and poor areas: we simply pushed it away from us. The patterns of production and consumption have progressively modified the purposes and functions of food as the primary good. Its usefulness has no longer been the main variable to quantify its value, but other determinants have entered the field, first of all the price, and this until the crisis has fallen on us and has reactivated the social categories of poverty and lack of food, which have returned to be clearly visible again even where they were no longer there for decades. This abrupt and unexpected change, however, is changing the purchasing choices and mode of consumption for many; it is opening up reflections and interest that affect habits and behaviors, bringing to the surface those paradoxes with which our time and we all start to reckon. And numbers are picking up a lot of them. The Waste Watcher Observatory - for example - has estimated the phenomenon of food waste in our country and the results are disconcerting: more than 5 million tons of food end up in the garbage every year; there is talk of a figure around 8 billion euros, equal to half a point of GDP. Our 5.6 million tonnes of food surpluses include all the food that is produced, processed, distributed and prepared for administration, but which for various reasons is not sold or consumed. These surpluses account for 50% of economic operators throughout the supply chain, but the rest is produced by the final consumer. It is therefore necessary, on the one hand, to act on the education of citizens to the value of food and, on the other hand, to facilitate donation by economic operators. We have deposited here in the Senate a draft law specifically for food education and I hope that this branch of Parliament will be able to start the parliamentary process as soon as possible. Similarly, a rule has been included in the 2015 Stability Act that makes it more convenient for donating businesses than throwing away. Then there are other numbers that represent the second side of the medal and increase the bewilderment. These are the worrying ISTAT data on rising poverty. Food waste and poverty are an irreconcilable combination, but linking them to restore a fair balance cannot take place according to the rules of the market economy model which are, in fact, the same rules that have led to this imbalance. We need a new model which, also using ethical principles, allows us to put back into circulation what is not consumed, by closing the circle of the product's life cycle according to the rules of the circular economy, by allocating surpluses for the purposes of social solidarity. We must support the chain of solidarity, from the recovery of the waste of citizens and economic operators to new final consumers. In the country there are already important human resources that, by vocation and personal choice, are committed to the diffusion of the principles of social justice; it is the third sector and, narrowing the field to the specific mission, of associations that work for the fight against poverty and that have marked their daily action according to the logic of the donation, the rebalancing and the optimization of the surpluses, and not only of food, but of all those basic necessities. They are the first example of this culture and the task of politics and institutions is to facilitate and enhance their work. This is the ambition of the measure under consideration, approved by the House in a text bearing the signature of 217 MPs, resulting from the unification of 9 draft laws presented by the majority parties, the 5 Star Movement, SEL and Forza Italia. It is a text, therefore, widely shared, that has enriched itself with the contribution given in the hearing and with the comparison with many subjects; shared to the point so that many of them have begged me to worry that this text was not modified in the passage to the Senate. The text maintains the line of Law No 155 of 2003, called the "Good Samaritan" (Good Samaritan), which, in recent years, has regulated donations and harmonises the regulatory framework to make donation easier, through simplifications and incentives. The matter of transfers for the purposes of social solidarity is in fact reordered. We are dealing with the sharpest limits of costly bureaucracy and complex legislation, safeguarding and guaranteeing food safety and product traceability. We come to the content of the measure, of which I will outline only the main aspects, given the extent of the measure itself, which is divided into three chapters, for a total of 18 articles. Chapter I outlines, in Articles 1 and 2, the aims and definitions of the terms, indicating, among the first, the reduction of food, pharmaceutical and market waste for social purposes, in order to promote the recovery and donation of surpluses and contribute both to the limitation of negative impacts on the environment, and to the achievement of the main objectives set out in the National Waste Prevention Programme, as well as to consumer research and information activities. Chapter II, including Articles 3 to 12, contains the largest part of the measure, providing for simplification measures for the free supply of food for the purpose of social solidarity. Article 3 lays down the procedures for the transfer of food surpluses by food business operators to donors, either directly or by assignment to another donor. The disposal of food surpluses for human consumption must be free of charge and should be directed primarily at the benefit of the most deprived persons, while other surpluses can be sold for the vital support of animals and other destinations, such as composting. It is also permitted to dispose free of charge of surpluses of agricultural products in the field or of livestock suitable for human and animal consumption, the collection and withdrawal phases of which will be carried out directly by the donors or by their agents. Article 4 lays down how food surpluses may be disposed of, subject to certain conditions, even beyond the minimum conservation period, for which further processing is possible in accordance with hygiene and safety requirements and the expiry date. Specific provisions are also laid down for finished bakery products and for products derived from flour doughs produced in bakery plants that do not require heat conditioning. Article 5 provides for the requirements and storage of food surpluses in free supply. Article 6 lays down specific rules to allow the re-use of food suitable for human or animal consumption which is the subject of confiscation, by establishing that the authority provides for the free disposal of food to public or private bodies established for the non-profit pursuit of civic and solidarity purposes. The provisions of Article 7 may be read in conjunction with Article 13. While Article 7 extends the subjective scope of the framework on guarantees of a correct state of conservation, transport, storage and use of foods which are freely distributed to the most deprived persons, Article 13 extends the scope of the rule whereby the person making free distributions of products is treated as the final consumer for the purposes of the obligations inherent in the correct states referred to above, with reference not only to food but also to medicines and any other product, provided that they are distributed free of charge for charitable purposes. Article 8 provides for the integration of the functions and composition of the permanent coordination table. Article 9 contains a set of rules for the promotion and information of waste reduction. Article 10 requires the Ministry of Health to define guidelines for the managing bodies of school, business, hospital, social and community canteens. Article 11 refinances the abovementioned Fund for the distribution of food to the most deprived persons with EUR 2 million for 2016 and establishes a fund, with a budget of EUR 1 million for each of the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, for the financing of innovative projects aimed at limiting waste. Article 12 includes the promotion of actions to reduce food waste among the aims of the fund for the promotion of measures to reduce and prevent waste production. Having explained previously Article 13, I continue with Article 14, which considers the supplies of used clothing and accessories free of charge. Article 15 provides for unused medicinal products and amends the rules on collection systems and possible subsequent use. Article 16 lays down various tax and financial provisions on the free disposal of surplus food, pharmaceutical products and other products. Article 17 gives the municipality the right to apply a reduction coefficient on waste to productive activities producing and distributing food, provided that such activities involve the free disposal of the said goods to the most deprived persons and persons in need or for animal feed. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has approved several agendas, which reinforce the subsequent action of the Government, in particular for the pharmaceutical waste part. I would like to conclude by reminding you that this proposal for a law of parliamentary initiative collects and rearranges a course of rules over the last 20 years and creates a homogeneous framework: it is ambitious because it also sets a concrete objective that is to double the recovery of surpluses. Italy wants to drive other countries in the fight against food waste, increasing the audience of donors. We have made it possible and will continue to fight to make it easier and more natural to make our society fairer, more inclusive and fairer. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Formigoni.]] Madam President, in conclusion, I would ask you to attach the full text of the report to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u44	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u47	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, the only part of the constitutional reform on which I agree is the abolition of the CNEL. Therefore, I fear that after the summer there will be no more opportunities to do so, and I would ask you, in accordance with Rule 98, for its opinion. Before the vote is taken, I would also ask for the quorum to be checked.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u48	Senator Calderoli, according to Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure, your request does not seem admissible. Article 98 reads as follows: If draft laws or business are in question which import economic, financial and social policy guidelines or in any case economic and labour-related issues, each senator may propose that the opinion of the National Economic and Labour Council be requested before the end of the general discussion. Your request is inadmissible, that is our opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u51	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, it is enough to hear the report which the rapporteur has carried out very diligently to consider the economic, and consequently social, impact of the measure. The reference to the social aspect is even in the title of the text. If, however, you do not consider my request acceptable, I propose a suspensive matter for 48 hours. Before we proceed to the vote on the suspensive issue, I would ask for the quorum to be checked.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u52	Senator Calderoli, I have already replied to you on this, in the sense that I do not believe that the bill on our examination has this kind of impact. Since no one is asking to speak, we shall proceed to the vote on the suspensive issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u53	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request, previously made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 15.42 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 15.22 p.m. and resumed at 15.43 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting has resumed. I invite you to take your seats. We must proceed to the vote on the suspensive issue. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I shall withdraw you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my speech by saying that I believe that the draft law should still be voted on, because it intervenes by putting in order a couple of aspects that I will consider better in the following. What I want to point out, however, is that we are far from the aspect, which someone has remembered, of resemblance to the parable of the good Samaritan. We are much closer to another parable of the gospel, that of Lazarus and the rich Epulon. We find ourselves, in practice, part of a system that wastes so much because it is badly designed and in which there are, in Italy of the 21st century, people who have nothing to eat. These people do exist and the operators of the food bank are well aware that there are more and more demands than willingness to satisfy them. It seems to me that we are very far from dictating the Constitution, from that second paragraph of Article 3 which bears within itself the project of the welfare state and which deals with the promotion of individual citizens. We are much closer to Christian charity, which is something else, which takes away hunger, but does not return pride. This leads to an overall assessment not of this measure, but of the choices made in the latest legislation and, in particular, in this, and of the policy that the Democratic Party and the majority are putting in place. As I said, every year half of the edible food is thrown away. This is a situation in contrast to the hunger I was talking about earlier and, with the 4 million citizens living below the poverty line. In Italy, which is part of the great ones, it is a double absurdity, whose terms are amplified instead of being eluded. On the other hand, the intervention to be carried out - which is partly done with the measure under consideration - is articulated, coordinated and comprehensive if it is true, as it is true, that waste does not occur at a specific stage, but throughout the process that comes from production to transformation, distribution and consumption in public and private premises (including individual consumption). The reason lies in the fact that in our society food is considered little: for those who have it, food in practice has no value, so much so that it is considered the subject of special commercial offers (I think of the so-called 3 times 2 and the other initiatives of the large distribution). And while food is wasted in the overflowing portions of catering and so little is worth for those who have the opportunity to acquire it and to dispose of it, there are people who can't have it to live. I turn to the merits of the bill. The positive interventions I was talking about facilitate the free transfer to the NLUS that deal with assistance, with a series of details on the tax aspects of the transfer. It sets out the requirements for goods to be considered as exploitable surpluses, so that they can be started for recovery; it establishes a coordination table where proposals for supply chain policies can be made and good practices shared. While it is true, as it is, that the State has gradually abandoned, for decades now, effective care policies, private citizens, families and individuals have continued to maintain this activity, so much so that good practices are mainly mutual from private individuals. An important point of this law is the refinancing of the food distribution fund to the most deprived persons. Returning to the initial speech, the expression "distribution of food to the most deprived people" seems to me to be a nineteenth-century text. I would like us to give an important thought from this point of view. We are very, very far from the state of well-being. On the other hand, and let us return to the limits of the policy, in the article laid down by the House, which has not been possible to amend, there are no mandatory elements for agreements aimed at the donation of surpluses, agreements which should be made mandatory with regard to large-scale distribution, which has an effect of sucking wealth both to consumers and to producers (and farmers are well aware of this). It's not like that everywhere. In France, for the non-subscribing of protocols aimed at the distribution of surpluses, there may be an end to 75,000 euros of fine or two years of imprisonment. So, in our view, the over-attention for the reasons of the company, which is well known to be represented in this House, limits the possibility of having an effective impact in the sense that we want, that is, in the sense of spreading at least crumbs of well-being. In any case, the bill still has positive aspects, if we think about financing the promotion of food education campaigns in schools, aimed at reducing waste. From this point of view I would like to point out an amendment by the Italian Left that finds the necessary coverage for these food education campaigns in the abolition of the existing tax concessions on palm oil, on which VAT is still 4% and on which the European Food Safety Authority has recognized the harmfulness to health. One more thing. Another aspect that we believe should be taken into account when we talk about donating drugs is that the distribution and administration of excess medicines will have to take place through the employment of staff with adequate training in the field of health; therefore the Government must ensure that these aspects are kept to the maximum. In conclusion, we are talking about a useful intervention, which, however, represents a step forward, but which leaves to be desired because some interests, we think of those of large distribution, are once again untouchable (as little as untouched), and because this measure appears as a piece on a lack of political planning of wide scope, or on a broad policy that considers inequality as an uneliminable trait and, at most, to be cured. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u56	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u57	Madam President, the draft law we are considering aims to limit waste and encourage the donation and distribution of products for the purposes of social solidarity, including medicines. I will focus in particular on Article 15 of the draft law under consideration, which deals with the use of drugs donated in favour of non-profit organisations and people in particular who are in need, first making a premise and then emphasizing certain aspects, which deserve to be put to the attention of the Assembly and the Government. The provisions we are dealing with, concerning the collection and donation of medicines, have been included in the text during the examination by the Chamber of Deputies, while at the Senate Health and Health Commission the specific bill No. 1092 was under discussion and related containing rules for the collection and distribution of drugs subject to donation. In this draft law some extremely important aspects were already mentioned, but, above all, the Senate Health and Health Commission had held a series of hearings, including that of a representative of the World Health Organization, which had allowed us to understand how best the provisions in the draft law could have been incorporated in order to ensure effectiveness of the measures. Unfortunately, the fact that the articles have been included, as they were in the basic text, without taking into account the amendments on which we had held a wide debate and on which there was a broad convergence within the Commission, prevents us from seeing, at the moment, in the measure we are discussing, some very specific elements, but they would make Article 15, laying down rules on the use of the drugs donated, much more useful, effective and also respectful of the solidarity aims of the measure. In particular, we had studied ways of promoting appropriate donation practices for beneficiaries and donors and, in accordance with the World Health Organisation's guidelines for the donation of medicines, which have been updated recently, we had asked for ways to protect beneficiaries from inappropriate donation practices. I remember that the scientific literature reports cases of drug donation against obesity to countries of Central Africa, which usually have the opposite problem to that of obesity. Therefore, it is important that procedures are put in place to protect the beneficiaries from these inadequate practices, so that perhaps the beneficiaries find themselves having drugs that they do not need, but that, above all, they have to decide how to dispose of and how to support their costs. It would also be important to define in a stronger way the responsibilities and involvement of recipients in the donation process, in order to ensure adequate coordination and effective cooperation between donors and recipients at all stages of the process, and to provide that donations are based on the express needs of recipients, in compliance with national health protection policies and standards, including through the reference to the list of essential medicines, which are useful in particular conditions of need, perhaps even by setting up national guidelines for the donation of medicines. It is difficult for these elements to be included in a measure such as that which we are considering today. Since the Government's commitment is to define a decree to implement the measure, it is extremely important that this is taken into account. To this end, I am going to withdraw the amendment to my first signature 15.2, which is replaced by an agenda which, in essence, suggests these aspects which I believe are important and which I hope the Government can accept, as it stands. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u58	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u59	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is difficult to find someone in this House who does not at least share the ratio of the draft law we are about to vote on. Certainly, the part about foods is acceptable, because it is impossible to conceive of a world where there are those who waste, while someone else is starving. To be aware, let us give a few numbers of the poorest part of the world: 795 million people suffering from hunger, 1.3 billion tons of wasted food of which 90 million only in Europe: precisely in our Europe, where 16 million people rely on charitable organizations to get food. And in this field, even in Italy, procedures have been developed now tested for the collection and distribution of expired food, but still good and usable, which give tangible results every day, to allow many people to eat food still valid without risk to health. But this bill also deals with another aspect, which is equally important because it concerns the use of medicines. That is why I would like to point out immediately that the drug being donated does not have the same characteristics as the food. The peculiarities of the drug lie in the curative and prophylactic properties of human diseases. By means of the drug a therapy is carried out in defense of health. I must therefore remind you, for the purposes of the Report, that the placing on the market of medicinal products provides for a very precise procedure governing its production, authorisation, placing on the market, distribution, medical and scientific information and finally pharmacovigilance, i.e. monitoring after sale. At the basis of every regulation that regulates the drug in Italy we have rules fully transposed from Europe and this is precisely what guarantees high standards of quality and safety of the patient. Therefore, even more and even better than any approach to food, which is right to recover until they show the slightest signs of alterations, for drugs it is certainly necessary to use more caution precisely to avoid possible risks to human health. In this sense, in the case of the donation of the medicine, the need to ensure the safety of the patient comes into play. And how can this security really be ensured? The patient's safety is guaranteed by protecting those who are the subject of a donation, such as Italian law protects anyone who buys a drug. Article 15 does not mention the guarantor of dispensation, i.e. the pharmacist, which is the guarantee that the Italian standard provides for the safety of the patient when dispensing a drug, whether on the stand or on prescription. In fact, when we face a donation we have the two classic cases. That of a over-the-counter drug, of which pharmacist is the guarantor of the appropriateness of the drug, but also the guarantee for the citizen to have all the information necessary to take it safely. Or, we have medications that require medical presentation and, therefore, even more the need for someone who can filter out the citizen's request and who can therefore give a real answer to his need for illness. What I think is wrong in this article 15 today at our examination is that there cannot, and must not, be any difference in the access to the medicine of those who buy it, being able to avail themselves of the qualified advice of the pharmacist and of those who, instead, do not have the money but need the same advice, for a choice that has obvious repercussions on his health. We cannot think that, since it is a gift, control over the appropriateness of use is not important. I will say more: without the introduction of a professionally qualified figure like the pharmacist at the time of dispensation, who can first consider whether the remedy really is right for the person who needs it? But more, who can recommend the dosage, make sure it is the right one and know when to take this medicine, whether before or after the meal, and how many times a day? And how can we give advice on conservation? This is the serious vulnus of Article 15: there is no provision for a presence, which is a guarantee of the safety of taking a drug. For this reason, in my opinion, what is missing in Article 15 is the mandatory introduction of the presence of the professional as an indispensable tool to ensure the safety of the patient. Moreover, I would like to point out that in bill 1092, deposited here in the Senate, which I have signed, this provision is explicitly formalized to equate those who have access to health by paying and those who are equally entitled by taking advantage of a gift from those who are generous. In conclusion, donations of drugs must follow a procedure that involves rigorous verification. That is why I believe it is essential, for the reasons I have outlined, that the specific discipline delegated by Article 15 to the Minister for Health and concerning the collection of unused medicinal products, the donation and the use of such medicinal products, should take on a number of additional requirements compared to other goods which are the subject of donation. From the quality of the distribution process to the final dispensation, the protection of the public's health must be brought to the fore. Therefore, even for the medicines collected for these purposes it is necessary to provide all, but just all, the same guarantees provided through dispensation of the drug in pharmacy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u62	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, the first Commission is examining the decree-law on the so-called digital process, of which we have examined the amendments. Rule 40 of our Rules of Procedure provides that the opinions of the 5th Commission are deemed to be mandatory to the extent that all the Commissions are required to send the basic text and the related amendments which are attributed to it so that the 5th Commission can express an opinion which becomes even an obstacle to the drafting or deliberating seat and determines the transfer of the measure to the Chamber. We have voted on the amendments and at the moment we find that the Budget Committee did not deliver these opinions. I know that in the past this problem has been overcome in the referee and we have moved on in the course of the work. All this, however, has happened on the slope of a deadline for the conversion of the decree-law, which I do not believe concerns the decree-law in question, because we still have the day of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow to be able to examine it and I believe that at the most today or tomorrow's day the 5th Commission could and could have expressed itself. I would remind you that many times I have already found the opposite opinion in the Commission in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and there is a need for someone to insist on voting in the Commission as well. Therefore, while I recall that there have been incidents in the past that have allowed this to happen, I would ask you to re-establish the rule for which the Commission can vote in the light of the Commission's assessment and not before. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u63	As the procedure is still in progress, the Presidency relies on the correctness and practice of the 1st Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u66	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Madam President, I would like to refer to an uninterrupted series of precedents for which, regardless of the nature of the measure (decree-law or draft law), when this is scheduled for the House, the substantive Commission can proceed even in the absence of the opinion of the Budget Commission, which will then be rendered to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u67	In addition, a passage from the Rules of Procedure states that it is necessary to justify the possible failure to transpose these opinions in the report that will be made. [[Senator Calderoli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u68	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u69	Madam President, the food waste we are talking about today has become an urgent issue in the European and global debate. It is necessary and necessary that, after France, Italy also has a legal text with these characteristics and this nature also for a fight against environmental pollution and inequalities between the different areas of the planet, as well as within the same nations between members of different sections of the population. The phenomenon has taken on enormous dimensions and it is no longer possible not to try to provide concrete solutions to defeat it. It was one of the commitments we made with Minister Martina here at the Milan Protocol, which then became our manifesto: 868 million people suffer from hunger in the world, but 1.5 billion are obese; every year 36 million people die from hunger while 29 million die from excess food. Humanity throws a third of its food production, four times what would be enough to feed those 868 million people who can't. In addition, one third of the crops are used for biofuels and feed and demand is rising. At present we consume a quantity of resources that exceeds once and a half as much as the Earth can objectively produce in a year; if we continue to proceed at this rate we will need three planets that just aren't there. According to the projections of future consumption, the intensive one, above all, would bring the existing ecosystems to their knees, in addition to making our products, those that arrive on our tables, absolutely devoid of the quality value we need. FAO estimates that, annually, food waste amounts to 1.3 billion tonnes of food, which, as we have said, would be more than enough to feed the entire world population. Loss and waste occur at every stage of the food chain and it was therefore appropriate to put in place a series of actions that have been articulated in the many potentials developed through the debate that there has been, especially in the House. In fact, at the Senate we have chosen to leave aside, each of us, as my colleague Mr Dirindin said just now, our will to include further evaluation elements, in order to allow the final passage of this important project, so that Italy will play its part right from the start. Today, 13% of the loss is in large-scale distribution, where only 8% of the surpluses are actually donated. However, the data do not fully make the negative dimensions of food waste. It should be pointed out - and this is my responsibility as a member of the Environment Commission and as an informed person on the facts - that every gram of wasted food also becomes a gram of waste to be disposed of. The environmental cost, therefore, increases and becomes heavier. It would perhaps be difficult to quantify the environmental and economic damage that is caused when the food has not yet come into contact with the final customer. The production chain uses, every year, 520 million cubic meters of water (data of 2012) for the production of food that will be lost, perhaps badly disposed of, equal to the annual needs of more than 8 million Italians. In the same way, 24.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide are produced, a heavy pollutant also for the air of our cities, for 20% linked to the transport of food that will not be consumed. It is clear that we must make it quick for this bill to be approved. I want to say one last thing quickly, accentuating some passages of this bill. Not only that which provides tax credits for retail sellers who buy goods without packaging or that for which they have chosen to accept the agendas - including one at my first signature - which introduce a coefficient of reduction proportional to the quantity of goods that distributors and producers dispose of correctly, giving it directly to associations that deal with the needy or needy; but also what defines as indispensable - we have written in the text - that we now create a food culture also in schools. I say it this way: after the digital natives, we would like our children, possibly from now on, to become environmental natives, that is, they would fully realize the consequences of every gesture and every choice made, even when you buy one food, and when you choose to buy it in one way rather than another. I believe that this bill, despite its completeness, has not collected every stimulus received; but I believe that, through an effective work of the Ministry in this direction, we can identify a new sensitivity, destined to grow from now on in the Italian people and in the Italian schools. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Battista and Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u71	Madam President, Minister, Vice-Minister, food waste is an unacceptable paradox of our time: in fact, if on the one hand there is a need to increase production in the coming years by 60 to 70%, in order to feed an ever growing population, on the other hand more than a third of the food produced is wasted in the world, of which 80% would still be consumable, that is, usable for the purposes of nutrition. Food waste is all the more illogical the more waste production and environmental crisis increase, as well as impoverishment and malnutrition (more than 1 billion people are currently undernourished). Authors say that if food waste could be recovered, some 2 billion people in the world could be fed. Waste concerns all the steps that bring food from the field to the table and affects all countries indistinguishably. The European Union, with 180 kilograms per capita, and Italy, with 149 kilograms per capita, are above the average of the developed countries in the list of waste countries. In our country household waste is the most important, 42 percent of the total, and costs over 25 euros per month per family. We can see that food that does not feed anyone is not only useless, but also harmful. In fact, the earth, water and fertilizers (not counting greenhouse gas emissions) that have been necessary for its production are also wasted with the food thrown away; the environment has therefore been polluted, exploited or altered in vain. And human work has also been wasted, which, in those not rare cases in which work is labour exploitation, assumes the appearance of the agro-food mockery, because that work has not served to feed. Fighting food waste and its environmental consequences is one of the missions that characterize the third millennium. In many cases, simple actions by individual citizens (producers, retailers, restaurateurs, processing companies) are sufficient to help achieve food security and better environmental sustainability. Article 1 explains in particular the purpose of the bill: to promote the recovery and donation of food surpluses, pharmaceutical products and other products (e.g. clothing) for the purpose of social solidarity; to reduce the production of waste and to promote reuse and recycling; to contribute to research, information and awareness-raising activities of consumers and institutions on matters covered by the law. At present, companies, restaurateurs and supermarkets in organized large-scale distribution wishing to donate surpluses must make a statement five days earlier. With the new law it will be enough a statement of summary at the end of the month, that guarantees the traceability of what has been given. VAT can be downloaded from the transport document and receipts and the law provides for a possible discount on the waste tax, proportional to the amount of food donated. Food business operators will be able to give the surpluses free of charge if they wish to do so to voluntary associations which will withdraw them directly and allocate them for the benefit of the most deprived persons. Article 16 of the unified text extends the audience of operators who will be able to withdraw surpluses, first reserved only for the NLUS, now also for public and private bodies. The new proposal also provides for the allocation of funds: the one linked to the so-called "deprived table" (which works with associations, processing industries, large-scale distribution and agricultural organisations to buy food) will be increased with two million euros for 2016. Then it is planned to set up two new funds, each with a million euros: the first will depend on the Ministry of Agriculture and will serve to finance research and development in the field of packaging, the second will depend instead on the Ministry of the Environment and will promote in the restaurants the use of containers to take home the leftovers. The law also says that the Regions can enter into agreements or protocols of understanding to promote responsible behaviors and virtuous practices aimed at reducing the waste of food and to equip the catering operators with reusable containers, made of recyclable material, suitable to allow customers to take away their leftovers of food. We're talking about the family bag. Finally, the law deals with consumers. Food waste concerns not only producers, distributors, and all food dispensers to the public, but also consumers who produce 43% of the waste themselves. This is why the proposal calls for wide-ranging awareness of this issue so that all stakeholders are more aware of the problem. The RAI, with its television and radio channels, generalists and themed, as a public body, will have to ensure an adequate number of hours dedicated to the topic. The draft law therefore focuses on incentives, bureaucratic simplification and the creation of a system that beyond individual initiatives solves the problem, but in fact does not provide for any obligation. The same French law provides for sanctions. Moreover, the bill does not intervene at all in the prevention, on the contrast to over-production of food, on the pressure that the food industry exerts on our choices, through uncontrolled and unregulated advertising, which creates real induced needs, convincing us that we need more food than we actually need, and convincing us to buy an increasing amount of food and of increasingly poor quality. Then, if food is consumed or thrown away, in fact, it doesn't matter, the important thing is that it is sold. The food waste, in fact, is not only the food that expires on the shelves and that is thrown from the supermarkets. In order to combat food waste, it is important to reduce these 2.5 million tonnes of food we throw into our homes each year. These foodstuffs have arrived in our homes because, perhaps, we have been conditioned to buy from advertising, advertising more and more pushed and marketing more and more sophisticated, as well as from the attractive promotions like the "three" for two supermarkets. Being impatient and always in haste can also be a pathology; we could improve the text, but this majority obviously did not want to do exactly what Plutarch taught us, that is that the ease and speed in doing a thing do not give to the lasting work solidity, nor the precision of beauty. There is a slogan that can be done precisely by the national community in the country that would like to pursue the ideal of beauty: beautiful, good and well done in fact characterize Made in Italy. Even the shameful price of wheat grown in our fields, an example for all, can be part of the plèiad of the products to which ethical, moral, civic and educational national attention must be paid. Whether food is consumed or thrown away doesn't really matter, whether people get sick actually doesn't matter, the important thing is that GDP, gross domestic product, grows. The important thing is that the bill is not weighed down. The important thing is that the government can do one of the usual tweets saying: Stop food waste. It's a good time. Our tweet would like it to be this: "And, once again, we wait for the good time." [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u72	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u73	Madam President, this issue is important and interesting and gives us the measure of the sensitivity that I would call current, modern and contemporary. It is a pity that it is treated at a preferred time and in which one is a little distracted with regard to the importance of the subject itself. It seems a pity that all around us and what we read about agencies bring us back from a world more attentive to situations that I would define between the dramatic, the dramatic and very strong that not to aspects of growth and civil evolution. A short while ago I was reading about the agencies that concern Turkey, with Erdogan who wants to insert the death penalty and is angry with Italy because there is an ongoing investigation of his son for money laundering, while the Russian ambassador defines the US bombing actions illegal on ISIS stations. We, on the other hand, are here to talk about food waste. What's out of place? We or the outside world? I believe that, in this circumstance, the outside world is out of place. There is never a suitable moment, of general tranquility, to be able to face these situations. Let us try to do the same, trying to find the broadest consensus around a measure which, although the political season, given what is happening outside this Parliament, leads to being more distracted than these circumstances, is instead a moment of civil progress. All of us have more or less inherited from our families or our traditions some consideration of food. This word, in fact, does not belong to us in a strict way because it is more linked to the American tradition of the word food. From us, eating has a name and a surname; each dish has its own recognizable identity and there are also traditions, often forgotten, that, if only rediscovered or reconsidered, lead us to evaluate how the experience and wisdom of the past made sure that nothing was wasted. Today there are dishes in all the Italian regional traditions that arise from the reuse of food, which is not a secondary use of poor quality or of poor value, as someone might imagine today. There are dishes, uses and customs, especially related to the peasant civilization, which give us a capacity to know how to use the value of food to the last. According to a tradition, widespread especially in northern Italy, of the pig, for example, nothing is thrown away. The minister, who comes from the pre-Alpine area, knows very well what I'm talking about. However, we are talking about a time that appears abundantly outdated and, in fact, in a fast food, after five minutes, if the potatoes cool they are thrown into the garbage. These are two situations that stand at the antipodes. The globalization of McDonald's doesn't make us rich anymore. Forget and lose this consideration about food is an impoverishment for all of us. If today we have some money and some extra wealth, which allows us to arrive on our food tables in abundance, we must always remember the food value and the fatigue that lies behind the production. This provision of law has in itself an importance that I would call ethical. It comes after measures that, in our country, have already gone the way of fighting the waste of food. I am thinking of the so-called law of the good Samaritan, which for more than twenty years has defined criteria for making accessible the use of food in surplus and in excess of the food not consumed. This measure contains important innovations, especially from the tax point of view. However, there are also aspects on which we ask the Minister to pay more attention and, above all, not to fall into the temptation to be universal in dealing with an issue. It is in fact better to be precise and punctual, carrying out a task well, rather than to insert more arguments and themes that risk then creating confusion or difficulties implementing, with effects that we would not want to be antithetical than those expected. I am referring to the fact that I have included the part concerning the drug in the measure under consideration. Food waste is different from the waste and reuse of the drug when it is close to exiting the market or is donated. There are also health profiles and attention to citizens who must be taken seriously. A piece of dry bread is something quite different from a drug still intact, but distributed. We must be careful not to mix too many arguments, thus rendering our citizens poor service, which we would like to help. There are important aspects - in this case I address the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy - related, for example, to the consideration made on the markets by consumers and those who buy food. Mr Minister, what we would have to say about the blue fish, which is caught in our seas and which is not imported, but of which we know that only a small part - no more than ten or twenty species - is actually traded. The other species are unfortunately discarded because they are considered too poor fish and product not rich enough to be present on our tables. This is a mistake. In the tradition we know that the lobster, the holm oak, the alice, the coasterdella, the lanzard, the saberfish, the sardine, the horse mackerel and the mackerel (we could list others) are caught in our seas by our fishermen, but dispersed and not consumed because they are not considered by the market. In this regard, another theme must be included: education. We cannot seriously limit food waste if it does not develop, or - back to what I said earlier - we do not recover a culture of the value of the food we have in the dish: what is collected by the farmer, what is fished by the fisherman and what is bred by the farmer. If we do not resume to develop a consideration of the value of the product and of the food we will always have a battle between a tax relief and a contributory attention, but - alas - I am afraid destined to frustration. The fundamental relationship to be recovered is therefore that between family, school and society, and it is important - still an appeal to the Government - to support and finance seriously policies for the development of culture and consideration starting from the younger ones regarding the recovery of food. Mr President, we want to see this project implemented. We welcome the acceptance of our agendas in the Commission, as well as a specific measure, which we will propose to the House, which regulates the use and re-use of the drug, which - I repeat - is different from the issue of the measure under consideration. We welcome the fact that the Ministry of Agricultural Policies is implementing these policies. Attention, Minister, you are sitting on the benches of the Government: this is not an initiative of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and or of the Ministry of Education, but it is an initiative that the Ministry of Agricultural Policies must carry out in a serious and determined manner in schools and among the youngest. Is that Expo's legacy? Yes, but it is above all an inheritance that comes from the past; for those who are aware of what has been our misery, to be serious today in food consumption means to bring respect to those who came before us and to the generations who have struggled before us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and CoR groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u74	Senator De Pietro is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that today we have come to discuss a legislative proposal that addresses waste, particularly food waste. Among the many and shared aims of the measure, I welcome the intention to contribute to research, information and consumer awareness activities, with particular reference to the younger generations. In this area too, in order to boost real social change, we must invest in what will be the real protagonists of the future, trying to build a new sensitivity with regard to food and the environment, closely related areas in our increasingly global society. For a long time I have been interested in this delicate issue with many implications: the fight against waste has in fact been the subject of two draft laws presented by me. I think we are all aware of the fact that, in a global context of serious economic and social inequalities, it is unacceptable to maintain endemic situations of food waste. I remember that at the time I was very impressed by the paradox that emerges from reading FAO data: about 805 million people in the world suffer from hunger every day, while 1.5 billion are obese. The phenomenon of food waste, at global level, is therefore worthy of the utmost attention. I quote briefly a few more figures just to give an idea of the seriousness of the scenario we are facing. The overall volume of food waste is around 1.6 billion tonnes, and of these the share of edible food waste would amount to 1.3 billion tonnes. As far as Europe is concerned, according to studies carried out on behalf of the European Commission, about 100 million tonnes of food are to be wasted within the Union and in the absence of measures, therefore significant changes, it could reach 120 million tonnes in 2020. Another effect of the problem must also be borne in mind. Food waste, as well as being an important ethical issue and causing economic damage, is also a serious environmental hazard, as it significantly impoverishes the basin of the limited resources of the planet. Just think of the fact that the volume of water used annually to produce food that is then wasted is equivalent to the annual flow of the Volga or three times the volume of Lake Geneva. The direct economic consequences of food waste are estimated at USD 750 billion per year. As far as Italy is concerned, according to the 2014 report Waste Waicher-knowledge for Expo, every year 5 million tons of food end up in the garbage. There is talk of a figure of around 8 billion Europe, half a point of GDP. What is described cannot be left indifferent. In the light of increasingly alarming data, I would remind you that by 2012 the European Parliament, through its resolution 2011/2175 addressed to the European Commission, called for concrete measures to be taken to put an end to the waste of food within the territory of the Union by 2025. I therefore believe that this is an objective to be pursued with the utmost seriousness and in this respect all the parliaments of the Union share a responsibility. Therefore, the legislative proposal that we are going to vote on today is, in my opinion, a first step in the direction of increasing awareness and will to stem negative phenomena linked to various types of waste. I would just add that on some aspects I would have preferred more courage. In particular, I would have opted for the introduction of the obligation to devolve food surpluses, at least in relation to some operators in the sector, who play a key role in the potential fight against food waste: I am referring to large hypermarkets, businesses with a sales area of more than 400 square metres. In fact, I believe it is necessary to reason in terms of obligation and not mere faculty, in order to draw effective forecasts and holes of repercussions worthy of some importance within the national territory. I therefore hope that they will receive support for the amendments I have tabled on this subject, which specifically provide for this obligation. I hope, therefore, that this is only the beginning of a virtuous path, which sees the synergistic involvement of institutions and societies. [[Applause from the Misto-Idv Group and Senator Pepe]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u76	Senator Dalla Tor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Vice-Minister, the measure we are debating today is both useful and inexpensive, not only economically but also from the point of view of introducing new rules or prohibitions. The idea behind it, in fact, is to recover and donate surplus food or other products, so that they can be useful to people who need it. By doing so, we will contribute, as well as to the strengthening of the feeling of social solidarity, also to the limitation of the negative impacts on the environment, which derive from the production cycle of goods. This is all the more true because this bill introduces policies to reduce waste production and promote reuse and recycling, including by encouraging public research, information and awareness-raising. Articles 3 and 4 of the text outline the system whereby food and agricultural products, which are still edible but discarded from the agri-food chain for commercial or aesthetic reasons, or because they are close to the deadline, will be intended for the needy. The medium will be represented by all those private institutions constituted for the pursuit, non-profit, of civic and solidarity purposes. For their part, food business operators, who carry out supplies strictly free of charge, must provide for good practice to ensure the hygiene and health safety of food. I should like briefly to mention a few more qualifying steps in the measure. Article 9 encourages the promotion on the media of virtuous behaviors to reduce waste, providing that RAI, through its own television and radio broadcasts, disseminates messages of information and awareness on behaviors and measures suitable to reduce food and energy waste. It will be up to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy to promote national communication campaigns, to disseminate models of consumption and purchase solidarity and sustainable, as well as recovery and redistribution plans for charity purposes. Article 11 provides for the financing of the Food Distribution Fund for the most deprived persons, with EUR 2 million for 2016. In addition, a Fund is established, with an annual budget of EUR 1 million up to 2018, to finance innovative projects, which favour the limitation of waste and the production of reusable or easily recyclable packaging. The financial capacity of the Fund for the promotion of measures to reduce and prevent waste production is also increased, with an additional EUR 2 million. As mentioned at the beginning, however, the bill does not neglect the reuse of goods and products other than foodstuffs. It is important to remember, in fact, also the provisions of Article 14, dedicated to the free supply of clothing items and accessories made directly by private individuals. In addition to food and clothing, Article 15 also deals with collection systems for unused medicinal products, simplifying bureaucratic procedures for the development of industry rules and restricting the scope of action to non-profit organisations of social utility (NLUS). In order to ensure the health safety of such medicinal products, the requirement for intact packaging is introduced and the exclusion of certain categories of medicinal products, such as medicines to be stored in the refrigerator at controlled temperatures, or containing narcotic or psychotropic substances and medicinal products that can only be dispensed in hospital facilities, is envisaged. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the rule of Article 17, which is acceptable and virtuous, allows municipalities to reduce the rate on waste to non-domestic users (TARI) for those productive activities which produce and distribute food and which give part of it to the needy or for animal feed. A measure, therefore, of advanced civilization that allows the efficient use of any resource, be it food or material, in order to help the most needy neighbor. A measure, and I stress this, which further strengthens the position of Italy in the front line in the area of the protection of the essential rights of persons. In wishing the Assembly's approval of the measure, even today with this vote we will mean a good page for our country. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u78	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u79	Madam President, I would like to point out that the government's approach to taking study measures in the various Commissions and including them in the decrees is, to date, also a prerogative of the House. In fact, in this measure another analyzed by the Health Commission on the distribution of drugs, the Senate Act 1092 et seq., distorted and already amended, ready to be dismissed, which is inserted in an incomplete and impartial manner, delegate to the Government, with a special decree, the resolution of those critical issues already resolved by the Commission. But the need to lay off the law has prevented its implementation and, therefore, some agendas have been added. The measure we are going to analyse focuses more on waste management than on avoiding its training. The proof of this is given in paragraph 3 of Article 4, where the finished products of the bakery and the products of the dough have not been sold or administered within 24 hours of production. Our grandparents made a bread that kept the consistency characteristics for a week. We consider it rejection after 24 hours. It is clear that there is a wrong productive approach and on this the law is not expressed except with vague statements without concreteness, as in article 1, paragraph 1, which introduces the purpose of reducing the waste of the production phases, but does not give any indication. The same applies to Article 9, which refers to a general commitment by the public radio service to information aimed at reducing waste. In my view, it should be Parliament that forbids the production of goods that do not have a long life, so that they do not allow themselves to be "over- or wasteful." Instead, we leave it to the citizen to opt for the purchase of those products, which have a slightly higher economic cost, but are sustainable and meet ethical requirements. This measure regulates the various stages of the collection and distribution of surpluses, it also identifies funds (modest and on various chapters, perhaps too many), it gives VAT facilities, it reduces the rate related to the waste tax and at the same time it helps people in difficulty. I would like to point out other problems that have only been identified as an element of reflection and analysis. For example, the definition of "stop-shops" or the persons who can carry out the free transfer to the most deprived persons. The text approved, instead of the current NLUS, extends the audience indefinitely, including the entire third sector and does not exclude, for example, social enterprises, which tend to operate as market operators and should not engage in charity activities. Another element is the introduction of traceability of supplies, compliance with the principle of rotation, transparency and public evidence. This is in order to prevent such disposals from taking place exclusively in favour of the same agencies and therefore to offset possible illicit or non-transparent traffic or agreements. In this sense, one may think of introducing the possibility that sections dedicated to the circular economy may be included on the institutional sites of the municipalities. Moreover, in order to make the objective of the law effective, it is important that effective monitoring is also carried out on the data relating to food waste in the food chain and that in this sense are defined at national level uniform modalities of acquisition, quantification, reporting and monitoring of the data related to the donation of the unsold food, with indication of the subjects of the supply chain obliged to provide the information of the supplies. Another critical issue is connected to the fund at the Agency for Agricultural Distributions (AGEA) for the efficiency of the production and supply chain for the financing of national food distribution programmes to the most deprived persons (Article 11). This proposal deals jointly with the above-mentioned fund, which, unlike the purpose of this draft law, is not aimed at reducing food waste, but at distributing food to the most deprived. It would therefore have been appropriate for the so-called AGEA fund to have been kept out of the draft law under consideration. Finally, I would like to mention, as the last element of reflection, Article 8, which is the coordination table, which is essential but, in my opinion, particularly crowded. As I said, this bill is a first step and will have to be implemented; it is, in short, another bill that could be better, on which we will certainly have to put our hands in the future. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u80	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scoma. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u81	Madam President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the senators: This law aims to reduce waste for each of the stages of production, processing, distribution and administration of food, pharmaceutical and other products. With these words begins the bill that we are examining, the Act Senate 2290, which bears the title "Provisions concerning the donation and distribution of food and pharmaceutical products for the purposes of social solidarity and the limitation of waste". With these premises, who can be contrary to the aims and spirit of this bill? On the contrary, I would like to stress that Forza Italia has always been in favour of the fight against waste, remembering that in 2003 the Berlusconi Government passed the law of the good Samaritan who, among the first in Europe, allowed the donation of food to the most needy in Italy. Today, in addition to the possibility of donating surplus food, there is also the possibility of donating unused drugs (obviously with strict rules for health protection), as well as a substantial simplification for the donation of clothes and clothing accessories. So you think everything's okay, but it's not exactly like that. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a crisis that began in 2007 and has exploded worldwide in 2008: eight years in which the crisis has been hard, very hard, and has also brought to Europe the recession, the rise in unemployment, poverty and even hunger, ghosts that we thought we had left definitively behind. ISTAT tells us that in 2015 still 1,582,000 Italian families live in absolute poverty, equal to more than 4,5 million people and this is the worst since 2005. Those who claim that the crisis has passed have to deal with these numbers. This is the real picture of the situation and it is in this context, which is still unresolved, that we must assess the effectiveness of this measure. I would therefore like to say that it is too little. While normative attention is appreciated, the desire to help those who work for the good of the unluckiest, in full harmony with the concept of subsidiarity and equivalence of private initiative with the public one, in the measure under discussion there is no trace of that cultural revolution, of that change of step necessary to face at the root the scandal of food waste that, as FAO says, costs the world every year 1,000 billion euros. We should have done more, especially with the increase in economic cover, because it is in helping those who need to measure the degree of civilization of a country. Forza Italia has proposed, both to the House and to the Senate, an increase of the resources available. For example, more tax incentives could be created for companies that wanted to donate, with adequate tax deductibility. More effective solutions could have been found than only the possibility (left to the good will and the attention of the municipalities) to apply discounts on the TARI for companies that donate food or drugs. There is another critical element that I would like to stress. The whole bill is based on the concept of spontaneous donation. I wonder if it would not have been better to tackle the issue of waste in more radical matters, finding a way to force in some way some subjects (i.e. large retailers, fast food chains) to donate the remains, especially the food ones. It would have been a strong and precise signal, especially at these times of difficulty, and would have helped the country to reach the goal of "fame zero" by 2030, as established by the Milan Charter and the new goals of the UN Millennium. Just to support these objectives, we proposed, with our amendment, to create in Milan, the headquarters of Expo 2015, the observatory that should help facilitate this path. We had hoped that, after the transition to the House, the Senate could improve the measure with targeted amendments, but once again, as is happening all too often lately, we have been forbidden to intervene. Having said that, it must also be recognised that the measure has positive aspects, such as the possibility of donating food packages even beyond the minimum conservation period, or of donating food materials confiscated by the authorities to public or private operators who pursue, without profit, civic or solidarity purposes. It is also a good thing that communication campaigns are planned by RAI, Ministry of Agricultural Policy, Ministry of the Environment and, above all, educational paths in schools by the Ministry of Education, because if we want to hope to eradicate hunger also through the elimination of waste, which is certainly within our reach, we must change our habits, understanding that it is a moral duty to stop throwing food still edible when so many of our compatriots have difficulty eating twice a day. I believe, in conclusion, that this is one of the cases in which the concept is better than nothing, because the little that is planned here will still be a concrete aid to the millions of people who live in Italy in a state of poverty. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u82	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u83	Madam President, Minister, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard from all speeches a general convergence and general positivity, which is no small thing. In fact, this bill aims, today more than ever necessary, to reduce waste for each of the stages of production, processing, distribution and administration of food products. To educate in the re-use and donation of food surpluses for the purpose of social solidarity (this is what I would like to stress as an absolutely positive element of the measure) must, in my opinion, start from the world of education and school, as some have mentioned. The role of schools in general and, in particular, the role of agricultural and vocational technical institutes with companies, the world of vocational education and training (hotels, addresses of chefs, waiters) should be enhanced in this respect. It is absolutely important to enhance this element through the various approaches. The educational process should involve the whole world of school, including school canteens, as I have noted in the 7th Commission, which has widely discussed this measure. To contribute to positive actions to limit negative impacts on the environment and on natural resources, to reduce waste production and to promote reuse and recycling in order to extend the life-time of products means to contribute to the achievement of the general objectives set out in the National Waste Prevention Programme. But it also means more. The potential of reuse for the living implies an ethical sphere, a series of values from which we cannot ignore: those of social solidarity, of attention to the weak, of respect for the environment. We know that environmental goods are not inexhaustible, so the culture of non-waste must replace inculturation, the banality of disposable use, a burner to which the educating community has looked in the past perhaps with too much superficiality, without strong educational lines of contrast, sometimes even abdicating to a fundamental role. And it is to young people that a different cultural formation, a culture of donation and an ethics of responsibility and awareness of the impact on the environment of our every gesture must be transmitted. Each action, each consumed asset leaves an ecological footprint more or less sustainable. It is up to us to be able to administer our fingerprints, not consume in excess or consume without excessive errors, through a positive reuse that does not irreversibly affect the resources to be allocated to future generations. These are the meaning, the ratio and the philosophy of the bill. The Milan Charter, which many of us have signed and shared, is recalled in this bill, when it refers to the right of all to a sufficient amount of food, healthy and nutritious, that satisfies personal food needs; when it recalls the awareness that one of the greatest challenges of humanity will be to feed a constantly growing population - as someone said earlier - without damaging the environment; when it recalls the commitments to the care of the food we feed. The draft law provides for the correct information and awareness of consumers, which must involve the media, the public radio and television service, the institutions, the world of training and research, in order to induce behaviours based on criteria of solidarity and sustainability. It also provides, for those who implement the free supply of food for the purpose of social solidarity, simplified procedures that encourage producers, distributors and processors. This is provided for in Chapter II, where the bill calls for priority to be given to donations to the most deprived, without prejudice to the full guarantee on the integrity of the primary packaging and the appropriate storage conditions. I stress how significant it is that the draft law introduces the criterion of premiumity, giving the municipalities the power to apply to businesses, to commercial, industrial, professional and productive activities in general, which distribute food and which, free of charge, give these foodstuffs to the most deprived, a coefficient of reduction of the waste take-off rate, proportional to the quantity, duly certified, of the goods and products withdrawn from the sale and the object of donation. It is indeed an important opportunity, which I hope mayors want to seize with conviction, because the benefits fall on the community. I quote article 7, which involves the world of public bodies, as well as private non-profit entities established for the pursuit, non-profit, of civic and solidarity purposes, in implementation of the principle of subsidiarity, which will be able to implement the purposes of this law. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of the establishment of the planned coordination table, with the task of formulating proposals and opinions on the management of the Food Distribution Fund, the development of information initiatives, awareness of the donation and recovery of surpluses, and the definition of measures relating to specific incentives for those involved in the donation, as well as the monitoring of food surpluses and food waste, the promotion of innovative projects and studies aimed at limiting food waste and the use of surpluses and the formulation of proposals to encourage networking and aggregation of initiatives promoted by public and private actors. The table is composed of representatives of various ministries, such as the Ministry of Agricultural and Forestry Policies, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Economics and Finance, those of health, the environment of the territory and the sea, economic development and so on, but the Ministry of Education is missing. I would like to hope that, given the educational implications of the measure, a table will also be added for the representation of the MIUR and that, in the practical implementation of the regulations, it will be taken into account, especially since the presence at the table does not entail any additional burden, even reimbursement of expenses. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u84	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u85	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank my colleagues for their contribution to supporting this measure in our examination. I believe that the guiding principle that has united all the speeches is confirmation of a substantial sharing of the basis of the text. The most complex parts are those that also induce us to admit a number of important agendas, referring to the writing of the legislative decree the part relating to the reuse of pharmaceutical products. A good job has been done, fast, and I believe that even if the text that will come out of this House should not be changed, the work that we have done is important because it leads to the approval of the measure quickly, which are those who expect those who have collaborated in its drafting and who are working to put into practice the tools that we carry out with its approval. I point out only one problem of rafting: there is a refuse in the title of Article 15 that is not repeated in the text of the article, that is the position of the words: "expired". At the first useful opportunity the legislator will have to make this correction. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u86	Mr President, I too would like to thank the House for the work it has done and for the reflections that have been made on this important measure which, in my opinion, as has rightly been said, is one of the most beautiful and concrete legacy of our country after the Universal Exhibition in Milan 2015. We have worked a lot in the six months of Expo and also in the following months to finalize, to realize the step that we make definitively today with this law. This is the operational translation of fundamental principles that we have recalled in our work, in the Milan Charter, in the field of international relations that we have developed thanks to the Universal Exposition on a fundamental frontier such as the fight against waste. It will increasingly be one of the major international issues of sustainability and competitiveness of development models and will see in particular Europe and Italy, in the heart of the Mediterranean, sign experimentally, with this law, some new ways of citizenship and promotion of good practices. This is a great theme that concerns us all. It has a value, as has rightly been mentioned by many in this House, even economic and financial, which is far from irrelevant, since we are talking about more than 10 billion euros of food waste in our country, an unacceptable figure. The rules that we consolidate with this law will allow us, in my opinion, to achieve the goal of recovering a million tons of food and to convert this waste into donation, as we have shown to be able to do in recent years, practicing the way of conscious participation in these choices, in particular by investing on the system of the third sector, on the associative networks and on the widespread protagonism of responsibility and citizenship of many. I am very pleased that we can strengthen the work of the Permanent Coordination Table of the Ministry's Deprived National Fund, because that is a good practice that Italy can tell even outside the border and that marks a profound distinction between the Italian model of fighting food waste and other models. We measure here a gap and a difference between the Italian way to the fight against food waste and the one that has taken other countries. What we confirm with this law is a promotional model, participatory, rewarding and not punitive; a model that invests on responsible citizenship, on widespread awareness, both of companies, and of citizens and families and I think we must all be proud to have contributed to affirming these elements of novelty. I believe that with this law we will be able to consolidate that laboratory that has developed, in particular, in recent years, with the great awareness that, in order to combat food waste and work more and better on the side of support for the needy, all these instruments are needed. We must put in place, as we are doing, a plurality of initiatives and I believe that today's law is a new fact, which is very important to all of us. It will be up to everyone to live up to it even in the coming months and then develop later, beyond the approval of this law, a field of responsibility and commitments that is up to the discussion that we have developed and promoted with Expo Milano 2015. This is a concrete legacy of that appointment. To those who asked what could change, from the structural point of view, in the legislative innovations and in the deep structures of the country thanks to the Universal Exposition, today we give a response anything but trivial. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u87	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which are set out in detail, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u88	Madam President, the opinion is against all the amendments, which I call on the authors to withdraw, with the exception of amendment 1.4. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u89	Please! You can't even hear the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u90	BERTUZZI, rapporteur. It is proposed that amendment 1.4. be changed to the agenda. The opinion on the G1200 agenda is in favour of rewording the proposal, while it is against the G1201 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u91	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u92	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u95	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are voting on the first amendment to Rule 1. I would have expected the Minister to remain at least for the examination of the first amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, the representative of the Government is present in the Chamber. We are now in the process of explanation of vote. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Of course, Madam President. The explanation of vote can only be in favour as I am the author of the amendment. I repeat, however, respect for this House, because the appearance is of little use to us. Our vote in favour is motivated by a very simple reason. As we have already argued before, we ask that everything concerning the pharmaceutical sector be excluded from the measure, becoming the subject of a specific regulatory measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The issue of food waste is indeed a very serious one, which can be dealt with with with a large majority. The inclusion of the substance of the drug within this measure certainly adds complications that risk not allowing the completion of the legislative process. Our vote will therefore be in favour, as we hope will be the vote of this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u98	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u99	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Donno, do you accept the proposal to withdraw amendment 1.4 and turn it into an agenda? WOMAN (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.4 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Bertuzzi, I invite you to specify the proposed rewording with reference to the G1200 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u100	The proposal for a reformulation is as follows: It commits the Government to promote, in conjunction with local institutions, the institution in Milan......................................................................................................................... The follow-up of the device remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u101	Do the presenters accept the proposed reformulation? DE BIASI (PD). Yes, Madam President, and I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1200 (text 2), tabled by Senators Mirabelli and De Biasi. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1201, presented by Senator Ruvolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u102	Madam President, with Amendment 2.4 we try to define and make a better understanding of what is the object of the measure. Instead of bringing together all that is contained in the draft law into the expression 'food surpluses', we would like to go on to specify better, not least in order to avoid situations of lack of clarity or difficult interpretation, what are the possibilities that could be opened up as a result of the adoption of the measure under consideration. Amendment 2.4 therefore clarifies the important change that is intended to be introduced into our system.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u103	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u104	Madam President, I call for all the amendments to Article 2 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is opposed, with the exception of amendments 2.3 and 2.4, for which it is proposed that the agenda be changed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u105	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u106	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senator Donno, until the words "of the products" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.2 are therefore excluded. Senator Donno, do you agree to turn Amendment 2.3 into an agenda? WOMAN (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G2.3 will not be put to the vote. Senator Mandelli, do you agree to turn Amendment 2.4 into an agenda? MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G2.4 agenda will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.5 tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to say that, in accordance with the provisions already laid down in the Commission, the Presidency declares that amendments 3.19, 3.20, 3.21, 3.22, 8.0.1, 9.1, 9.2, 9.3 and 9.4 cannot be proposed, in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, because they are unrelated to the content of the draft law under consideration. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 3, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u107	Madam President, I simply wanted to say that Amendments 3,200, 3,301, 3,202 and 3,4 all relate to the issue of compulsory distribution (GDO). Of course, we are here to debate, so we are also available to withdraw these amendments and to turn them into an agenda that puts the issue of establishing a table with the GDO and the solidarity organisations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u108	Madam President, Amendment 3,203 seeks to introduce a real obligation on food business operators, instead of the free disposal of food surpluses. This in order to make worthy of some importance the positive repercussions of the measure within the national territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u109	Madam President, with Amendment 3.18 we are dealing with a fairly important subject, because the article does not include the possibility of free disposal of surpluses which have been used for specialist purposes, for patients in artificial home nutrition. These products, which have an important cost and a definite utility, are thrown away and no longer have the possibility of being used. Taking advantage instead of the great opportunity of the bill at our examination, we could include in the forecast article 3 all these products, important for all those people who have bags prepared ad hoc, for a parenteral nutrition, so you could find a use avoiding a waste. It would therefore be appropriate, in my view, to include this case in the measure as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u110	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u111	Madam President, I would ask you to withdraw, otherwise the opinion will be against all the amendments, with the exception of Senator De Petris' amendment 3,200, because I agree with the senator's proposal to turn it into an agenda containing the requests contained in the amendments you have listed, which I urge the Government to accept. The same applies to Senator Granaiola's amendment 3.13, and to Senator Mandelli's amendment 3.18, which I call for to be transformed into agendas which I invite the representative of the Government to accept. On the other hand, I am opposed to the adoption of the G3200 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u112	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u113	Does Senator De Petris agree to withdraw Amendment 3,200 and to turn it into the G3201 agenda at the same time? DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, Madam President, and I also withdraw Amendments 3,301, 3,202 and 3.4. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the G3201 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u116	MORONESE (M5S). I withdraw all amendments to my first signature tabled in Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u119	WOMAN (M5S). I welcome the call for the withdrawal of all the amendments tabled in Article 3, but I am prepared to turn them on the agenda if there is ever any such proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u122	DE PIETRO (Mixed). Madam President, I shall withdraw Amendment 3,203, asking if I could turn it into an agenda if it could be accepted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would remind you that the amendment cannot be accepted in accordance with Rule 81 and that the rapporteur has not made it available to the agenda. DE PIETRO (Mixed). I shall withdraw it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u125	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I withdraw Amendments 3,204, 3.8 and 3,205.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u126	Amendments 3.5 to 3.205 have been withdrawn. Senator Granaiola, do you agree to turn Amendment 3.13 into an agenda? GRANAIOLA (PD). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G3.13 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 3.14, 3.15 and 3.17 have been withdrawn. Senator Mandelli, do you accept the change in the agenda of Amendment 3.18? MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for the G3.18 session will not be put to the vote. Amendments 3.19 to 3.22 cannot be proposed. Amendments 3.23 to 3.28 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the debate on the G3200 agenda. Senator Moronese, do you insist on voting? MORONESE (M5S). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u129	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G3,200, presented by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now turn to the amendments to insert additional articles after Article 3, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u130	Madam President, I call for both amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u131	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u132	Let us move on to Amendment 3.0,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PIETRO (Mixed). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.200, tabled by Senator De Pietro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u135	DE PIETRO (Mixed). Madam President, I accept the rapporteur's call for the withdrawal of Amendment 3.0.201.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u136	We take note of that. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u137	Madam President, Amendment 4.1 calls for a simple clarification, which is essential from our point of view, namely that processed products must be supplied to consumers and end-users free of charge. It seems something new, but we are in a country that unfortunately has accustomed us, even in the best circumstances, to degeneration phenomena. We define a specification which, in a clear and obvious way, determines the free disposal of the products, in order to avoid in any form the eventual sale for consideration or, even, the placing on the market of the processed product, which could be a processed bread that comes to become a different product and is put on the market. No, this can't be. This supply chain must define in an impeccable way and undoubtedly the freeness of the product for end-users. 17.31 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u138	Mr President, in order to avoid potential distortion of the ratio at the basis of the draft law, in Amendment 4200 it is appropriate to specify that processed products, in accordance with the provisions of Article 4, must also be disposed of free of charge in a context of social solidarity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u139	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u140	Mr President, I call for both amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u141	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u142	Let us move on to Amendment 4.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u145	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to call for a vote in favour of this House or, at least, to understand why the opinion is against it, because the amendment is so banal and lapalissian that it does not understand why. I am also willing to reformulate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the representative of the Government to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u146	No reformulation is necessary simply because the principle of gratuitousness is expressed in Article 3 of the draft law under consideration, therefore no disposal of such products can be made except free of charge. This has already been established, so it is only because otherwise it would mean repeating a statement. We all know that in our country there are fraudy behaviors, but once defined in the norm we do not have to write it infinitely to remind us of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u147	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,200, tabled by Senator De Pietro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of Article 5, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u148	Mr President, I call for a withdrawal, otherwise I am against Amendment 5.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u149	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u150	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.1 tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur, the representative of the Government, to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u151	Mr President, I would like to call for the withdrawal of all amendments to be rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u152	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u155	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 6.1 and 6.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u158	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 6.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u159	We take note of that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.0.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 7, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled, which are to be referred to, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u160	Mr President, I would also like to call for amendment 7.1 to be withdrawn because the content is taken up by the agenda that has already been adopted G2.3. On the agenda, Mr G7,200, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u161	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u162	Senator Donno, will you withdraw Amendment 7.1? WOMAN (M5S). Yes, ma'am, I'm gonna drop it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u163	Senator Moronese, do you insist on voting on the agenda for G7,200? MORONESE (M5S). Yes, ma'am, I insist. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G7200 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of the G7200, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 8, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, to which I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u164	Mr President, I would like to call for the withdrawal of all the amendments, otherwise I am against them, except for Senator De Petris' amendment 8.4, which I would like to turn into an agenda. I also welcome the G8.00 agenda presented by Senator Granaiola.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u165	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u168	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw my amendments to Rule 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u169	Amendment 8.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator De Petris, do you accept the proposal to turn Amendment 8.4 into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u170	Yes, Mr President, and I insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u171	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.4 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 8.5 to 8.9 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G8.00 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.0.1 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 9, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u172	Mr President, Amendment 9.10 calls for the following amendment. Instead of assigning ownership of the management of the educational initiative to the Ministry of Education, University and Research, it is requested to assign this role to the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies. The amendment, in fact, provides that the words "The Ministry of Education, University and Research, in agreement with the Ministry of Health, heard the Ministries of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies" are replaced by the following: The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, in consultation with the Ministry of Health, heard the Ministries of Education, University and Research, It is obvious and undeniable also in the light of the legacy of Expo, that the ownership, function and pre-eminence of the activity of the Ministry of Agricultural Policies can only be recognized in this field, in this field and in this function.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u173	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u174	Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw, otherwise the opinion will be against, all the amendments that I will not propose to turn into agendas. I call for the withdrawal or conversion of Amendment 9,200 to the agenda. I would like to address Senator Amidei: since we have just adopted an agenda for the first time by Mirabelli, which has a content very similar to what would become the content of his agenda, if he accepted the proposal for the transformation of amendment 9,200, I propose that he be able to sign Senator Mirabelli's, if necessary, or to turn his amendment into a further agenda of similar content. The opinion is also opposed to Senator Candiani's amendment 9.10. I would ask you to withdraw it because the most attenuated form is what he proposes on the G9 200 agenda, of which I propose a rewording. With regard to amendment 9.13 I could propose a change in the agenda, but its content is already on the agenda G9.202, on which I am in favour with a slight recalibrate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u175	So these are dry retreat invitations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u176	BERTUZZI, rapporteur. Finally, the opinion was in favour of the G9.203 agenda, at the first signature of Senator Ruvolo, with a rewording. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's start with the agenda. You are proposing a rewording of the G9 200 agenda. I ask Senator Candiani to pay attention to the reformulation. BERTUZZI, rapporteur. I read the rewording of the agenda G9.200: "It commits the Government to promote initiatives, in agreement with the MIUR, aimed at strengthening the role of the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy in the preparation of targeted routes, including through educational institutions, of food education against waste". Senator Moronese's opinion was opposed to the agenda. As stated above, the opinion is in favour of the G9.202 agenda, with the following rewording of the mechanism: • commit the Government to consider the possibility of providing for the advertising of useful information, guidelines, institutional initiatives and information campaigns in implementation of this law, also through a web section dedicated to the reduction of food waste • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • [[Senator Moronese points out that she wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u177	I would like to quote a remark from Senator Moronese, because we had previously assessed the agenda G9.202, proposing the following rewording of the device: "The Government is committed to predicting the advertising of useful information (...) ", thus expunging the formula "to assess the appropriateness of "."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u178	Does the rapporteur agree with this rewording of the Government? BERTUZZI, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you agree with the proposed reformulation of the agenda G9.202, Senator Moronese?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u179	Yes, Mr President, I welcome the proposal for a reformulation and, precisely because this agenda has been adopted, I intend to withdraw Amendments 9.12 and 9.13.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u182	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I listened to the rapporteur's proposal, but she was talking about a similar agenda but not the same as my amendment. I believe that Amendment 9,200 should also be taken into account, which I would like to turn into a agenda. Regardless of whether they are similar or whether they both have interesting concepts, I believe that my amendment can also be turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u183	Senator Bertuzzi, how do you express yourself about this? BERTUZZI, rapporteur. As I said, I am in favour of the change of agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 9,200 is therefore withdrawn and transformed into an agenda. Mr Olivero, Deputy Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy. Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendments 9.1 to 9.4 are unacceptable. Amendment 9.5 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.6 tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 9.7 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Candiani, do you withdraw Amendment 9.10?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u184	Mr President, I am quite surprised. I do not want to go too far by saying that I am disconcerted or anything else. Minister, the measure was incardinated in the Agriculture Commission, there is here to discuss it the Deputy Minister of Agricultural Policy, there was a little while ago the Minister of Agricultural Policy, asked to give ownership of the measure to the Ministry of Agricultural Policy in agreement with that of education and then carried out a measure that instead provides for the Ministry of Education in agreement with that of agricultural policies. Where is consistency? Would the Minister of Education come to the Chamber to discuss the measure and incardinate it into the Commission institution, otherwise it does not make sense! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Mussini and Quagliariello]] It is a question of mere logic: who is present here today, the Ministry of Education or that of agricultural policies? Where was the measure discussed? In the end it is also a matter of dignity. Has this speech been taken forward in the Commission? Yes, there has been a discussion, there has been an agenda. Now, if it is for a political question, you just say it, but the coherence, at least formal, guarantees it. I therefore maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u185	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.10 tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 911 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.11, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 9.12 and 9.13 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.15 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Candiani, do you accept the rewording of the G9.200 agenda proposed by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u186	Mr President, in the light of what I have just said, I thank you for urging my reply, but of course this cannot but be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u189	BERTUZZI, rapporteur. Mr President, I just wanted to reassure Senator Candiani of his observation. I believe that the proposed reformulation also makes sense in the size that this measure has in relation to the powers of the Ministry. If we were to think as Senator Candiani proposes, we should have a moment of split because this measure, in the House, was dealt with by the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u190	Senator Candiani, do you insist on voting on the agenda in the original text? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.200, presented by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.201, presented by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Moronese, do you insist on voting on the agenda G9.202, in the wording accepted by the Government? MORONESE (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.202 (text 2), tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G9.203 (text 2) and G9.2000 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u191	Mr President, I would ask the authors to withdraw all the amendments tabled in Article 10, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u192	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u193	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.1 tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.4 tabled by Senators Donno and Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.0.200, tabled by Senator De Pietro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 11, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u194	Mr President, if you believe in the measure, you must also fund it. The measure stands with a million euros. I challenge you to believe that this is not a symbolic figure. What is proposed is to increase the budget not by EUR 100 million, but to bring it to at least EUR 2 million and to increase the figure in the following years. If you believe it, you finance it. Returning to the previous speech, the Ministry of Education must do its work, the Ministry of Agricultural Resources does not want to do it. These are the funds available; the positive spirit does not prevent us from being critical of the Ministry and the President of the Council of Ministers. Maybe this is another chance to do a pre-summer tweet like: We have approved the Food Waste Act. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the senatorsRizzotti and Quagliariello]] If you want to do something serious, you finance it. Period. Put the money in a meaningful way in order to be able to take action against schools and also the economic world, which must then take into account what we are approving. It is easy to say that laws are made if someone else pays the bills on the territory. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u197	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I wanted to reassure Senator Candiani that all activities in schools are always done at no cost. That's the thing. This will also be an activity done, for the umpteenth time, at zero cost and within the limits of the available resources, which means asking all the stakeholders for the umpteenth time to sacrifice their time for free.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u198	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u199	Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw, otherwise the opinion will be against, all the amendments proposed in Article 11, with the exception of Amendments 11.8 and 11.10 so we are calling for the transformation into two separate agendas. If the first signatory to amendment 11.10 is accepted, Senator Moronese, the new agenda will in fact take over the agendas of the G11. 200 and G11,201. Mr President, I therefore propose that you ask what Senator Moronese thinks of the proposal to turn amendment 11.10 into an agenda. If your answer is positive, I will ask you to withdraw the two agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u200	Is that true of Amendment 11.8? BERTUZZI, rapporteur. No, for amendment 11.8 there is only the proposal for a change to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u201	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u202	Senator Moronese, is there an invitation to turn Amendment 11.10 into an agenda, will you accept that?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u203	Mr President, I would like clarification. I understand the call for the withdrawal of the G11,200 agenda, but it seemed to me to understand that the G11,201 agenda had a favourable opinion regardless of the request for the agenda for amendment 11,10.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u204	The rapporteur has not spoken to this effect so far. Does the rapporteur want to review her position on the agenda for the G11,201 agenda or is there always an invitation to withdraw? BERTUZZI, rapporteur. Mr President, I call for the withdrawal and I maintain the original proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u205	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u207	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I accept the change of amendment 11.10 to the agenda and withdraw the agendas for G11,200 and G11,201. I also take the opportunity to withdraw amendment 11.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u208	Senator De Petris, do you accept the proposal to withdraw amendment 11.8 and turn it into an agenda? DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). I welcome the proposal and insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 11.2 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 11.3 tabled by Senator Candiani, until the words "2 million" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 11.4 and 11.5 are therefore excluded. Amendment 11.6 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.7 tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G11.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 11.9 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G11.10 tabled by Senators Moronese and Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Agendas G11,200 and G11,201 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 13, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u209	Mr President, I call for amendments 13.1 and 13.2 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u210	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u211	Let us move on to Amendment 13.1 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. WOMAN (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.1 tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MORONESE (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.2 tabled by Senators Moronese and Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 13.3 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 14, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u212	Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw Amendment 14.1, otherwise the opinion will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u213	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u214	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.1, tabled by Senators Moronese and Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 15, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u215	Mr President, allow me to make a preliminary remark. It seems quite uncomfortable that a measure which is finding broad agreement (although the amendments are not approved), therefore in a basic spirit which should at least be recognized and appreciated by the Government, does not take into account even the lawfulness of this House to make improvements. Frankly, listening to the rapporteur say that the measure has been closed and sealed in the House of Deputies and therefore no more at first reading seems disconcerting! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Bonfrisco and D'Ambrosio Lettieri]] We are adopting a measure in which we believe: we have said this in the general debate and will then repeat it in an explanation of vote. But a little sense of politics, not that of the tweet, but the real one, which also takes into account sentiment and the things in which you believe, at least give it. In this provision and on this article in the House, we have approved our amendments which have at least allowed us to make sure, with regard to the use of medicines, that the associations that will have availability accompany the use of medicines with the necessary professionalism. You do not use drugs if you do not have the professionalism and ability to distinguish: it is not a piece of dry bread that you can give to one person or another. At least that measure has been approved. But to insist on this attitude again, what will eventually produce you? Have you approved the measure? All right, but what is the spirit with which you have approved it? Is that to want to do yet another demonstration that you have the numbers to do it? Frankly, this is not the case and we also miss an opportunity to give a distinctive sign of what politics can do beyond the deployments. [[Applause from the LN-Aute Group of Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u216	Mr President, I find it mortifying what is happening in this House, for a very simple reason: we want to give, through a fake debate and a fake confrontation, the feeling to the country that the measure is approved and handed over to represent the answer to a need. It would be all true and all right if there were not a simple observation, namely that paradoxically a draft law, one of the very few parliamentary initiatives, was strangled in a fake debate, in which, when it is okay, an agenda is adopted and there are applauses. [[Applause from Senator Volpi]] and even opposition forces converge exultingly in expressing their consent to the measure. I personally anticipate what I shall then give in more detail in an explanation of vote: this is the mortification of parliamentary democracy. Secondly, as far as Article 15 is concerned (so I take my thoughts into account in this speech). We miss an opportunity, and Mr Candiani has mentioned it very rightly, quietly and purposefully last with his speech: the attitude of the opposition is aimed at bringing a sign of improvement to the text of the measure, but the answer is absolutely inconsistent and irresponsible. The problem is that there is the prevalence of so-called party discipline and therefore basically we vote without realizing what is being voted on; then, ex post, we must give the country account of absolutely inadequate measures. It is said that the best is the enemy of good. Here smiles my friend and colleague Emilia De Biasi, with whom we have a lively political debate in 12a The Commission, but then - and I am glad - there is convergence, because there is a sense of political maturity that leads us to converge on so many measures. I see with some embarrassment colleagues and colleagues of the Democratic Party in the Health Commission who throw the stone and hide the hand, and then to the Cheticella disappear all those granite claims that melt like snow in the sun because party discipline says that you have to approve the measure as it came from the House. But this is not parliamentary democracy, dear President. Article 15 has been subject to the assessment of the 12th Commission. In the opinion of the 12th Commission, with the votes of the majority, which, of course, has found my clear and determined dissent, at a certain point we read:'(...) that the text of Article 15 above appears to be characterized by drafting problems, inaccuracies and shortcomings, so as to make it problematic to achieve the albeit shared objectives underlying the provisions... (...). And shortly after that we read: " (...) without specifying that there is a need for the said activity to be carried out by staff qualified to the profession of pharmacist (...)" - another element in the narrative of the measure - and then ends with the favourable opinion. But here is an opinion from the Commission on the substance of the measure, where it says that the text of Article 15 is incomplete and that it will be unenforceable; and what do we do? We put it to the vote and exultant, dear colleague Candiani, we give our consent. We're not in! I call for the vote so that this Article 15 is deleted, as it is an act of responsibility. In other words, I would ask that my next explanatory amendment, which retrieves the text of the bill by my signature, which my colleague from the House thought to remove from the competence of the Senate, which had already incardinated it, had already voted it and on the subject had also audited the Director-General of AIFA, with all the comments and corrective suggestions that had been the subject of amendments. Nevertheless, the House's colleague makes sure that it is absorbed, thus subtracting it from the competence of the Senate Commission, right within this bill, which, if you look at it, has commendable aims but which can certainly be better than you want to approve it. This is a sloppy, disorderly and even arrogant way of lawmaking. That is why I call for the deletion of Article 15 and, on a subordinate basis, I call for the adoption of the related amendments which modify its content, in order to try to make it more consistent with its applicability, its spensibility and the achievement of the objectives which Article 15 itself intends to achieve. [[Applause from the CoR and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Volpi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u217	Mr President, we believe that this article shows that it is impossible to open a dialogue on this measure. These amendments were really trying to give dignity to all the people who need help, in this case with regard to a drug. This morning, in my general speech, I made it clear that I am convinced that it is not possible to make a difference between those who ask for the intervention of a professional, having the right to a health benefit, and a donation that does not give any chance of being guaranteed by a health professional, in the act and at the time when this help is needed. Basically we expect that there is not really a qualified professional figure, that can help those who need to know if such a drug is really necessary to that person and understand - for example - whether it should be taken before or after lunch. It is therefore left to some volunteers, not necessarily qualified, the dispensation of an existential good and not of consumption, easy to understand. Therefore, with the amendments before us, we just want to try to make the right to health a real thing and not a fake moment. I think, in general, that, when we need help, a qualified person is always needed, and even more so, if help is needed for a choice that affects our health, we need to have the certainty and obligation of mediation by a professional, as happens for those who pay a health benefit. Mr President, I want to bring my personal and direct experience. As everyone knows, I am President of Italian pharmacists, but I am not making it a corporate problem. When the earthquake occurred in L'Aquila a few years ago, many Italians donated drugs. Faced with the generosity of Italians, however, there was the difficulty of volunteers to understand what use the donated drug could have and if - for example - it was an antibiotic or an antihistamine. Therefore, as Italian pharmacists, we strongly wanted to insert in the column of the emergency intervention also a column of pharmacists, who knew how to distinguish, classify and make available to citizens the so exuberant donations of Italians. I say this to point out that you cannot understand what content a drug has, unlike a packet of pasta, and we cannot know its purpose. Therefore, without a professional who can direct, the use of the drug can also cause some damage to the health. With the first of our amendments we therefore asked to have a place on the Ministry's website, a point or a bulletin board where those who donate can inform the community of their generous availability, but it has been clearly rejected. We have asked to equalize those who need health assistance to those who buy a drug and, therefore, we have asked to have a professional qualified to dispense the drug, to protect the citizen. And I repeat that we did not do it because there is a will to make a corporation, but because all citizens in front of health - as the Constitution says - must be equal and, therefore, the rights of those who pay must be the same as those who receive a drug. In the illustration, I really hope that our amendments can be transposed and that those who need them can be treated like those who pay a service in the National Health Service. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u218	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u219	I call for the withdrawal or I am against all the amendments, with the exception of Amendment No 15,200, by Senator De Petris, for which I am calling for an agenda. I am in favour of the G15,200 (text 2), first signed by Senator Candiani, and G15,201 and G15,202, both signed by Senator Formigoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u220	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u221	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u223	BERTUZZI, rapporteur. Mr President, I would also like to draw up an agenda containing the comments made in this House, first and foremost by Senator Dirindin, on the possibility that shortcomings may be recovered by the legislative decree to be drawn up by the Ministry of Health in the coming days. I can read the text of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u224	Let us put this agenda aside, Senator Bertuzzi, so that the text can be distributed and everyone can read it. Senator De Petris accepts the proposal to turn Amendment 15,200 into an agenda and insists on the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.1, which is identical to Amendment 15.3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.1 tabled by Senator Candiani, identical to amendment 15.3 tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Tarquinio. (The vote was followed). (Senator Bianconi says she wants to intervene.) MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Senator Bianconi has to intervene! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I shall cancel the vote. Just raise your hand. MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). He raised his hand!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u225	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u226	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u227	When the vote is taken, it happens that a request for intervention is confused with an indication of vote. I don't accept these attitudes. Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, you are absolutely right, on the contrary, I apologise. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm not mad at you, Senator. Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). I am obliged to make a very brief explanation of vote, because in 12a We have talked a long time about this issue and, among other things, the very hard opinion that Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri referred to is me. We understand very well. I do not go into the debate on the cooperation between the House and the Senate and the democratic aspect, but I would like to express a word of clarity with regard to the health issue. And I must say that in the Commission the Government has been a diligent member and when it writes the implementing decree it has given us ample assurance that on the solicitations... VOLPI (LN-Aut). What are you telling us? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, let Senator Bianconi finish. Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Evidently, Senator Volpi, who is part of the 12th The Commission does not take part in its work, but does not want to listen to what is being discussed and approved there. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The government has given extensive insurance... VOLPI (LN-Aut). Vote for the amendment! Vote for the amendment! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, let me do the surgery. Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am always extremely kind and courteous and always on the tip of a fork. This is an extremely sensitive issue and I would like to finish my reasoning. We know very well that by law the prescriber of a drug is the doctor and who distributes the drug is normally, indeed by law, the pharmacist. I repeat that the Government has given us ample assurance that, when drafting the implementing decree, it will write exactly this. What has urged us in the extension of the opinion is that the generic expression used by the House, according to which the distribution is made by health care personnel, is not appropriate, because health care personnel can indicate the nurse or all those figures that orbit within the health care. On the contrary, by law, who prescribes the drug - so also in this case - is the doctor and who distributes it must always be a pharmacist. In fact, in the draft law that we had incardinated - and that was at the end of its legislative process, and that is why colleagues are right in talking about the little attention paid by the House - we had studied this chapter very well, establishing that in fact the associations, the ONLUS, would collaborate with the territorial associations of pharmacists so that it would always be a pharmacist who distributes the drug. This is the main issue that we have debated and resolved, because we believe that the Government is serious and will keep the commitments made in the Commission. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u228	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u229	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u230	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether the previous senator is aware of what she has said. She claimed that the Government, in issuing the implementing decree on Article 15 under discussion, would give broad assurances that it would specify the figures involved in the distribution of drugs and whatever else. It seems to me, however, that when a delegation is given to the Government for the enactment of legal provisions, there are rules that cannot be exceeded. The delegation must specify exactly the limits of time and content. We read, in the opinion of the technical report, that the text of Article 15 - as Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri recalled - appears characterized by editorial criticalities, inaccuracies and shortcomings. If one thinks of filling the gaps by relying on the government's assurances, it seems to me wrong as a standardization technique. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We must tell the government what to write in the implementing decree. For God's sake, we express all our trust in the Government even when we give our vote of confidence, but be careful: in this case we are talking about something extremely delicate. We are talking about figures who must distribute drugs where necessary, and therefore give themselves the widest space to make this measure something that can be managed for use and consumption of whom I do not know. For these reasons, I believe that Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is right in expressing her perplexities, and my colleague from the New Right Centre could pay more attention to providing trust guarantees to a Government which does not intend to correct the text or clarify it in its natural place, namely in this House, but which thinks that it will reserve these measures. Then, when the implementing decree comes, the opinions of the individual Commissions - as you well know - will not be binding. At that point, even if in the opinion that the text will be given it will be subject to conditions or observations, the decree will be effective of our country and the damage will become irrecoverable. This is the place where you can still recover. I therefore call on the Government to reflect on this point and to allow this Assembly to examine the measure, by making those corrections, particularly to Article 15, which are necessary, so that the work of the Government itself can be facilitated when it is committed to issuing the relevant implementing decrees. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u231	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u232	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u233	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I only take a few minutes. It is clear that, when a measure arrives in this House, not everyone has instructed it - it also happens to us for the measures of the other Commissions - and therefore it is normal for everyone not to understand the debate that is taking place at this moment. We have, Mr President, faced a very unpleasant situation, because we have called into question the loyal cooperation between the two branches of Parliament, since it is true that part of Article 15 is actually extracted from a draft law of which the amendments in the Health Commission were being examined. And that is absolutely true, so much so that we deliberately chose to include this assessment in the opinion: an element usually not ritual, but it seemed to us that there was a strong link to highlight on this point. Afterwards we also posed a problem: we wondered whether we should proceed exactly as the House had done - that is, in a defective way, and I take responsibility for what I say - or whether I should not necessarily refer to an indication to the Government, but to a bill capable of completing the shortcomings present - a bill taken exactly by the rapporteur, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, Senator Bianconi and myself - in a better way, from the point of view of the quality of legislation and content, compared to what has been done by the other branch of Parliament. That is why we have chosen, certainly by majority - we have all agreed on the content, but not, of course, on the vote, being different evaluations - to give a favourable opinion, so as to put forward, however, the contents relating to the drug and its distribution as written in Article 15, but reserve a part of the deepening in the bill that still remains in force. In conclusion, that is why I call for the article to be voted on as it stands, knowing that the Health Commission will, however, continue to examine the draft law which is already incardinated and which envisages putting things right better than the House of Deputies has done. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u234	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.1 tabled by Senator Candiani, identical to amendment 15.3 tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Tarquinio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 15.2 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 15.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.4 tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Tarquinio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 15.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u235	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u236	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u237	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with this amendment we asked for something very trivial, which shows the will not to meet the opposition. We asked for a site to be activated at the Ministry of Health where donations could be flown on a bulletin board species and, therefore, put in contact those who donated with whom possibly on that site of the Ministry of Health could find the information. I would at least ask you to accept the change of the amendment to an agenda, because I believe it is absolutely civil. Those who donate give the Ministry the opportunity to publish this donation in a site or a place and, therefore, those who seek know where to go looking for what they ask. It seems to me that you can vote very well, because I think it is not so shocking but only civilization. I give and I know that the Ministry regulates my donation on an ad hoc site but, above all, what interests me is that those who seek something know where to go looking for it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda G15.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u238	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u239	I accept the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u240	As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on the G15.7 agenda, tabled by Senator Mandelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.8, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.9, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.10 tabled by Senator Mandelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G15,250, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 15.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u241	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u242	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u243	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, here too, I would like to see whether Mr De Biasi's indications will really be accepted. I would ask that my amendment be turned into an agenda to commit the Government to ensure that, even when there is a donation of a drug, the security chain, provided for by the Italian health system, can also give the possibility to those who do not have the money but who need a drug to have the same guarantees as those who pay. I would like a vote in favour, because I really think it is a matter of civilization. I do not see why those who pay and those who give should not have the same treatment as we expect. In the alternative, since President De Biasi wanted to give an assurance to the House, I think it is right to turn Amendment 15.11 into an agenda to commit the Government to make the safety chain a clear point for the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u244	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u245	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u246	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to return to this amendment, of course, and to what President De Biasi said that - if I am not mistaken - he said that we are able to fix what the House of Deputies has done, and so he has made a negative judgment. I am thinking above all, borrowing the amendment by Senator Mandelli, to the issue of health workers, which is a well-defined figure in the law and is not just the doctor or pharmacist. [[Comments of the Senator Ricchiuti]] The health care staff includes a wide range of figures and, therefore, others can also do so. And above all I stress the fact that saying that welfare companies are equated with the final consumer means that the final consumer is the citizen who puts the drug in his own locker and can distribute it to whoever wants, can lend it to the neighbor, to anyone. Where it is written that the prescription is necessary we agree; but where it is not necessary, the drug is distributed in rain, creating a great security problem that the President himself told us that we must settle as soon as possible. We hope that the problem will be resolved and that, of course, what is being discussed in Commission 12a will be brought to the House and sent to the House quickly, as early as September, to become law. If not, I call on the Government and the rapporteur to consider amendment 15.11, or its change to the agenda, which says that the word should be replaced by a pharmaceutical specialist, so that the definition is not generic and does not allow the nurse, the biologist, the laboratory technician or the radiology technician to distribute a drug to their neighbors. The Group strongly supports the agenda - it seems to me that this has been requested - in which amendment 15.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u247	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u248	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u249	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, even if the amendment were to be turned into an agenda and the government committed itself to following the lines of the amendment... Senator Falanga, there is no agenda. FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I have said that if the Government also gives an opinion in favour of an agenda with the content referred to in Amendment 15.11, on the basis of the provision of the delegation law that we approve, for any implementing decree that will specify the health figure, whether it is the nurse or otherwise, any nurse will be able to appeal against that decree and there will be no administrative tribunal that will not agree with it. The possible implementing decree that will specify that the distribution must be made by doctors or pharmacists, and not already by other professional figures, will contrast with the content of the delegation. I believe that I can safely state that any Italian administrative court will accept the appeal, because it considers that the implementing decree has limited what, on the other hand, the delegation law had extended. For these reasons I would urge the adoption of amendment 15.11 and not its possible transformation into an agenda, as the parent company Barani has also suggested. [[Applause from Senator Mandelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u250	With no mention of the rapporteur and the government, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.11 tabled by Senator Mandelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 15.12 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.13.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u251	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u252	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u253	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I realize that the curve of attention is down to very low levels and the buzz is overruled by the need to deepen some of the passages which Mr Falanga has just pointed out. I think he's wearing a piece of color, and I'm telling his colleagues in the Democratic Party and President Zanda. I am truly mortified because, if it had been a measure of high importance for the Italian Republic, for the country, it would have been possible to resort to a vote of confidence. Yesterday we voted on 53rd trust and today we could also vote on 54th. However, on such a measure, I cannot understand why an amendment cannot be adopted. I do not understand why there should be such a mediocre response to the 40 amendments, offered as a sign of participatory will to improve the text of the bill; and mediocre in terms of quality not only of legislative prose, but also of debate and relations between political forces. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] Senator Falanga says well: to hand over the responsibility to put the cards in order in order to the decree of the Minister asks why we cannot do today what, instead, is thought to have to delegate to the government. This is a parliamentary Republic and we are at second reading. If the measure is approved in the Chamber of Deputies next September or October, the world does not fall apart and we would therefore approve a measure that has its own ratio and applicability. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] In fact, the decree will not be enough to remedy the sloppy and disordered writing of the provision. In fact, paragraph 1 of Article 15 expressly provides that the decree governs the methods of donation, use and requirements. There are no references to the method of disposal to the end user and it will not be possible to do so, because it would be a breach of the delegation with respect to the stake that we are putting with the measure under consideration. For God's sake, I wouldn't even have wanted to do this because I realize that it's of no use, but I feel like I'm doing better with my conscience by highlighting such an aspect. I would have liked Amendment No 15.13, which of course recorded the opposite opinion of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, to be put to the vote and rejected, because this would have taken responsibility for it and we could have specified the reason in the streets tomorrow. The amendment is, however, also signed by Mr Bianconi, whom I welcome for his sensitivity and commitment. As the synthesis formula that we have found together as a corrective amendment to the original text of the law at my first signature, I ask that the rapporteur and the representative of the Government consider the possibility of its transformation into the agenda, as a sign of a resepiscence that questions the conscience of colleagues and allows us to avoid the repetition of this theater that is serious and humiliating not only for us, but for the democracy of our country. [[Applause from Senator Floris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u254	Senator Bertuzzi, what is your opinion on the proposal to withdraw amendment 15.13 and turn it into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u255	Mr President, the transformation of the amendment into an agenda safeguards the principle stated by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, but I would like to make it a little more general, providing that the distribution of medicinal products should be carried out by accredited personnel.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u256	Accredited? BERTUZZI, rapporteur. Yes, accredited, but we can also use the term "enabled." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, but I didn't understand the term. BERTUZZI, rapporteur. I would have preferred the term "accredited."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u257	[[Senator Mandelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u258	Accredited to what?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u259	[[Brusio]] Colleagues, please lower your voice so I can hear the rapporteur. BERTUZZI, rapporteur. Accredited to drug distribution. The title for accreditation to distribution is also the ability to exercise the profession of pharmacist. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have some concerns about the term 'accredited'.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u260	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u261	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u262	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I would recommend an expression which is also present in the texts, namely: 'the distribution in accordance with current legislation', which already has in itself the professional figures that they can distribute. In any case, it is not said to "accredit" in technical language. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u263	Accreditation is to the National Health Service. rapporteur, I would say that the proposal put forward by President De Biasi is the most focused one. Do we rephrase the text in this way? BERTUZZI, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u264	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u265	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, do you agree with this wording?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u266	Mr President, I agree, but I entrust myself to your well-known mastery in terms of the precise knowledge of the Rules of Procedure in order to approve, alongside this rewording, as well as the proposal, a change to the agenda of the opinion of the 12th Commission as an act of commitment of the Government. The opinion of the 12th Commission is timely in terms, exhaustive in content and resolving the issue we are considering. If, in addition to being an opinion given to the 9th Commission, it also becomes an act of commitment by the Government to comply with the Commission's recommendations, which, by virtue of its competence, gave the opinion, I believe we do, and indeed make a less compromised figure than could happen if we did not approve it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u267	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, the reformulation is what we have achieved with the contribution of the rapporteur and the President of the 12th Commission. Today, there is no possibility that an agenda will be created which will reproduce the opinion you have just mentioned. If you accept the rewording, you must tell me whether you want the agenda to be put to the vote or not. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). I ask that it be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G15.13, presented by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u268	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u269	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u270	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I believe that Amendment 15.14 can also be accepted using the wording suggested by President De Biasi, and thus giving even more detail to the work of the Ministry of Health. I therefore call for amendment 15.14 to be transformed into the agenda, using the same expression that Mr De Biasi has proposed for the previous agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Mandelli, from the point of view of the rapporteur, I understand that perhaps you could add the signature to Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri's agenda. We have already voted on Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri's agenda and you could support it, because I do not see any positive points on the part of the rapporteur regarding the possibility of turning Amendment 15.14 into an agenda. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). I don't understand the difficulty. One of them has passed, the other can pass, because I don't see the difference, but we're not here to play theater. I repeat that we are missing a good opportunity to help those in need and this is what must remain. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So do you keep the amendment or not, Senator Mandelli? MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). I subscribe to the agenda of Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, although I do not actually see the problem, since they are two proposals that go in the same direction. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can make a guess. If tomorrow the law were to predict that it was not the pharmacist, we would have a bond that is not there. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). That's right. So I think it would be appropriate to vote on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u271	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.14 tabled by Senators Mandelli and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G15,200 (text 2) agenda was accepted by the Government. Senator Candiani, do you insist on voting? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G15,200 (text 2), presented by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The agendas of the G15,201 and G15,202 were accepted by the Government. Senator Formigoni, do you insist on voting? Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G15.201, presented by Senator Formigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G15.202, presented by Senator Formigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, have you seen the text of the G15,300 agenda, of the rapporteur, who has been distributed? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, is it your omission or didn't you come down to pick him up? He's been on distribution for half an hour, so it's his fault. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for the G15,300 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 15.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u272	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u273	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u274	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). The Forza Italia Group cannot but be opposed to the approval of this article, because it is proof that even when a measure has no ideological connotation, but there is no desire to listen to a positive contribution to its improvement, it bangs against a wall even with absolutely logical things. We have had the demonstration of this even now, because it is difficult to say that there is a professional who is delegated to do something that everyone knows he does. If we all agree that this was a measure in which something could be done together, this day really marks a defeat for this House. We have tried to make a real contribution to improving the situation and to meet those who need a drug. We are not talking about an ideological problem or a problem that can be seen differently depending on whether one looks at it on one side or on the other side of one side. It is only necessary to try to help the many Italians who give up a cure because they cannot afford it. That was the way we dealt with Article 15 and the way we wanted to see it in the Commission's work. Instead, since you have to make it soon, there is no room and there is no time to do otherwise, let's go make a nice facade speech, but let's not go to solve any problems. We are facing the defeat of those who need it, because if you need a drug, even if you don't have the money, you must have the same rights as those who can pay for it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Fucksia]] This is the message that should come from this House today and instead we are here to discuss formulas that are not clear and situations that are not understandable. Today we really had the chance to synthesize for those who need it, but we only turned it into a choice between a red ball and a green one. We at Forza Italia are not here and, although we understand the needs underlying this measure, we say that we are for the things done well and not for the things done quickly: therefore we will vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u275	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u276	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u277	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we cannot fail to take account of the negative development of the votes on the amendments proposed by us and by other opposition groups, but we really do not want to talk about opposition on this measure. Furthermore, we can only think in due consideration of the opinion adopted by the 12th Commission on the draft law, which, I remind myself, reads: "The Commission, having examined the draft law in title; considering that the draft law pursues the common aim of limiting waste and encouraging the donation and distribution of products for the purposes of social solidarity; notes that the other branch of Parliament has considered to include in the text provisions "on the collection of unused or expired medicinal products and the donation of medicinal products" (so says the heading of Article 15), although in this regard at the Senate were being examined, from 2 March 2014, specific drafts of laws, reached the amending phase (designs of Law No. 1092 and related) "; notes that the text of Article 15 above appears to be characterized by drafting problems, inaccuracies and shortcomings, so as to make problematic the achievement of the albeit acceptable objectives underlying the provisions and to suggest an inadequate level of in-depth investigation; notes that, for what concerns the crucial activity of dispensing medicinal products subject to re-use, the text places the condition, quite generic that the Onlus have "health personnel" without specifying that there is a need for the aforementioned activity to be carried out in the care of authorized personnel to the profession of pharmacist. Mr President, this is the opinion drawn up by the 12th The Commission and, in the light of this opinion, amendments have been proposed which the majority here today, in this House, rejected. I wonder, I ask you, with what responsibilities you dismiss this text of law. We proposed a very simple thing: make an excellent law on food waste, but do not mix the drugs with food, because those who feed on drugs go to the creator. Do what you want. You're responsible. Our vote can only be against. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u278	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u279	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u280	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in dissent from the vote declared by Senator Mandelli, which, of course, costs me a great deal, I am not going to vote on this article, for a very simple reason. In this 17th legislature, which will pass through history for the massacre of the Constitution, either in the form of reform or in the form of abnormal interventions by Parliament, I happened to listen to everything about bicameralism. But this had escaped me: imperfect bicameralism in stages. Today we approve without amendment what has been approved by the House. We reserve the right to make another bill on the same subject, but we do not know whether the House will observe the same respect for what the Senate says, by passing the text launched by this branch of Parliament in addition to what we are talking about. I really wonder why Parliament should be subjected to this continuous mortification. This - I repeat - I missed it. It is true that anything can happen in the 17th legislature, as it is happening, but this was really a gem that was missing from the material constitution in the negative sense that - alas - we are writing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u281	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u282	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u283	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u284	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, in the confusion I have mistakenly voted in favour of Rule 15. I would like to make a correction, because my vote is against. I also asked for the floor for a brief explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry, but the presidency hadn't been told. You have the right to do so. FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, this is a very embarrassing day. It is embarrassing that pears have been confused with apples; it is embarrassing this rush to legislate so badly, not taking into account the existing legislation and not harmonizing the rule to the existing laws. If this is the legislature of reforms, the next legislature will be that of corrections and eliminations. Actually, in fact, there is a series of useless laws and measures that we are implementing without even understanding the verse anymore. In fact, there is no concept of what accreditation is, which is regulated by Italian and European legislation in a precise way. There is this deregulation whereby a drug becomes a food product, which can't be. A drug is not even an object or a commercial product, because the cure has another underlying philosophy. So the vulnus of this provision that we are approving is precisely the confusion of putting together two things that could not be together. It's kind of like putting the devil and the holy water together. They are two things that do not harmonize together, because they are different concepts. We're so used to it. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u285	Senator Fucksia, I gave you a few minutes, but there are no explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u286	FUCKSIA (Mixed). I shall conclude with just one consideration. We are so used to the urgent decrees mix, that we obviously no longer realize what is rational and logical. It is really disarming and disturbing, and at the moment accreditation does not have it in Parliament, because who credits us to legislate so badly?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u287	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 16, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u288	Mr President, I would like to call for a withdrawal, otherwise I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u289	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u290	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u291	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u292	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendments Nos 16,3 and 16,7 because the content is included on the agenda of the G7,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u293	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u294	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u295	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I welcome the rapporteur's invitation and withdraw all the amendments I have signed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u296	Amendments 16.1 to 16.7 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 16.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u297	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u298	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u299	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether you have read Rule 16 correctly and, above all, whether those in this House have read it as vestals of legality and as defenders of suspicion. Have you read that free transfers of up to 15,000 euros are exempted from communication to the Finance Guard? I would have liked to have signed the amendment withdrawn by Senator Granaiola, but I would have proposed to go further to EUR 5,000, and then I would explain why this sum. In practice, we are giving the opportunity to carry out an underground marketing of goods under EUR 15.000, even if they have expired from the point of view of labels - at this point I must understand - even without any accompanying bill. I already imagine the organizations that are preparing to account for 14,500 euros for each shipment and that make 10, 15, 20 shipments putting in place particular business on pharmaceutical products. Colleagues, it is not possible to establish a limit below or above which such communications must be made. These communications must be made for each consignment of goods that goes to surrender for free. The limit of EUR 5,000 is inspired by what we all have in declaring contributions in relation to the aspects of the election campaign. Since several abuses of food distribution by candidates have already occurred in the election campaign with the complacent performance of food banks not exactly in line with the noble philosophy of this measure, I really wonder how we can accept that communication can only be made for matches of more than 15,000 euros. I can already imagine what will happen in this country where unfortunately still exists the rule that "made the law, found the deception." I am also surprised that all those here who preach legality and attention to possible scams have not at all deigned to note that this is a chasm that opens up in the possible scams to trade and also tax evasion. It's a hole that opens. In my view, therefore, Article 16 had to be inserted - and I am referring to the concept that I have just expressed - in full right, together with Article 15, in the draft law to be redone in relation to this matter here in the Senate. In fact, the appropriate changes must be made in such a way that this activity does not lend itself to the least aspect of fraud or tax avoidance or to any kind of misrepresentation, which will certainly happen. I really do not understand how you can set a limit of 15,000 euros to the obligation of communication on the transfer to free disposal of these goods; it is really incredible that you did not notice this. I will therefore certainly vote against Article 16.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u300	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u301	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u302	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u303	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 17, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which are set out, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u304	Mr President, I would like to call for the withdrawal of all amendments and the G17,200 agenda to be rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u305	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u306	Let us move on to amendment 17.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 17.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.2 tabled by Senator Amidei. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On the agenda, Mrs G17,200, the rapporteur spoke against. Senator Moronese, do you insist on voting? MORONESE (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G17,200, presented by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 18, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which are set out, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u307	Mr President, on the agenda, Mr G18,200, I would like to express my support for the formula: "It commits the Government to consider whether it is possible to do so." On the agenda, Mr G18.201, I voted against. I call for the withdrawal of additional amendments, otherwise I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u308	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u309	Senator Moronese, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G18,200?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u310	Yes, Mr President, and I insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u311	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G18,200 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G18,200 (text 2), presented by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G18.201, presented by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 18.0.1, tabled by Senators Moronese and Donno, until the words "the contract" are reported. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 18.0.02 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.0.3, tabled by Senators Moronese and Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u312	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u313	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u314	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Liuzzi, speaking in general debate, has been exhaustive, precise and detailed in describing the strengths of this bill and in highlighting the need for it to be a legislative heritage that, even if late, would benefit our community. In particular, he pointed out how and how much this bill intercepts a need that has become increasingly urgent, even in conjunction with the very serious situation of the economic and financial crisis that has gripped our country for many years. So, basically, he explained how and how the concept of food poverty is unfortunately not limited only to certain parts of the world, but is an extended phenomenon, which today affects 53 million European citizens who struggle to eat a full meal every day. In Italy, over five years, people have more than doubled who can no longer afford a balanced diet. This is a subject in which real paradoxes are recorded. A paradox is that, in 2011, we had news that is, at the same time, good news and bad news. The good news is that the number of people dying of hunger has been reduced; the bad news is that people who die of over-feeding have increased, that is, the pathologies that result from food excesses. So we're glad that they're reducing the undernourished, but we're concerned that they increase overweight and obese people. This is the paradox that is also recorded in the debate, in the deepening, in the reasons that revolve around this bill. The problem of food waste affects the whole world. According to FAO data, well a third of the world's food ends up being wasted; we are talking about over one billion and 300 tons of waste, which is basically the amount of food needed to feed a billion people, who today suffer from hunger because they do not have sufficient access to food resources. More than 220 million tons of food are thrown away every year in industrialised countries alone. And again, every year they end up between 10 to 20 million tons of food waste, with an estimated value of over 30 billion. So there are ethical aspects, of an economic nature, of a cultural nature and also problems, especially of a social nature, that must necessarily be balanced again that strong imbalance, that exists and that becomes obnoxious for the very serious levels of discrimination, that lies in inequalities and also in food inequalities. But there are other factors that need to be kept in mind and that my fellow Senator Liuzzi recalled. The reduction of food waste coincides with an interest of the environment, because it reduces the volume of waste. And again, combating food waste is also important because limiting the impact on biodiversity of massive food production becomes a real problem, a sort of emergency. The negative effects of agricultural expansion and extensive crops on habitat fragmentation and biodiversity loss are such that it seems truly inconceivable and unacceptable for a significant part of what is produced to be dumped. We could still remember other points that represent elements of strength to share this measure. Unfortunately, however, our position is of great concern and also of regret. In fact, in parliamentary democracy, the House plays a fundamental role. In this House there is a confrontation between the different positions, when the confrontation frees itself from speculation, from ideological issues that sometimes take politics away from the need of the community and create a short circuit between the square and the palace that determines very serious situations that we could well have overcome if only there had been a different attitude on the part of the majority and this government that the majority supports. Cicero, in the "De natura deorum" (De natura deorum), when he speaks of the pythagorics who turn to their teacher, recalls that the said ipse dixit is used to indicate the sacredness of the word of the master. Ipse dixit, so it has been established and so it must be done. A serious situation that occurred yesterday with the 53rd vote of confidence and today with a paradox: one of the very few drafts of parliamentary initiative is handed over to the approval through the narrow and winding road of a debate end in itself, useless and idle that opened the door, when it went well, to some polite and generous concession of the majority, of the rapporteur and of the Government that allowed to approve some agenda. The amendments did not have any obstructive aims nor were they aimed at distorting the meaning of the text that came to us from the House. The amendments were few and all aimed at coherently, forcefully and reasonably supporting a text on which, all in all, a discreet sharing was recorded. Yet the ipse ixit has raised the level of arrogance, arrogance, supposition of the government and the majority and it has not been possible to do what it would have been necessary to do. (at 19.20 a.m.) (Followed by ambersio lettieri). The debate on Article 15 is emblematic of this. A parliamentary committee of merit has expressed its opinion on one point, Article 15, expressly saying that the text - of the aforementioned article - appears to be characterized by relational criticalities, inaccuracies and shortcomings, such as to make it problematic to achieve the albeit shared objectives underlying the provision and to suggest an inadequate level of in-depth investigation. What do we do? The task of remedying this is delegated to the Government. It does not rely on the Assembly, it does not rely on parliamentary democracy, on the purpose of the amendment to correct a text which is decreed as inadequate, inadequate and incomplete, but we vote on it with applause, with a smile, with satisfaction, with self-celebration, in order to have to run to the streets tomorrow to represent a truth that is not there, the truth that brings a measure that is decisive of the tragedies that millions and millions of Italian citizens live. This is the reason for the great disappointment that leads the Group of Conservatives and Reformists to stress the absolute irresponsibility of the Government and the majority and necessarily to express a vote of abstention that - I come back to say - is not, as perhaps would have been necessary, a vote contrary to the content of the law. It is, on the other hand, a vote by which we intend to express censure on the method by which, in this House, the majority and the government impose their will and their Diktat by hurting democracy. [[Applause from Senator Mandelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u315	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u316	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u317	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr President, we shall vote on this measure because it fills a regulatory vacuum and has a positive impact on a two-sided situation. On the one hand, we have a great phenomenon in Italy, as in all the other countries of the West, of food waste, that is to say of products that at the various stages of the supply chain are set aside, do not reach the final consumer and are started in various forms to destruction or, even, not to harvest. It is a phenomenon that affects production and distribution and much also the behaviour of the same families. All this has a negative economic impact on the whole functioning of the supply chain. On the other hand, there is an increasingly large section of the population, unfortunately, which is in absolute poverty. Statistics are merciless: around 90 million tonnes of food are being wasted in the European Union alone and 55% of food waste is still suitable for human consumption. In Italy the food waste amounts to about 6 million tons, the food wasted is 108 kilograms per capita and every year an average family throws away 450 euros. Instead, the portion of food recovered and donated to food banks or non-profit organizations accounts for just over 6%. This is a gap that needs to be filled and this measure helps to fill it. In one year, 1.2 million tonnes of food will be recovered in Italy and will now remain on the fields, another 2 million tonnes of food coming from the agri-food industry and more than 300,000 tonnes coming from the distribution industry. A third of the food produced annually in the world is thrown into the garbage and corresponds to four times the amount needed to feed the hungry of the Planet, which are 868 million people. If it's easy to produce food, it's much more difficult to keep it and transfer it, even if the new technologies allow more and more to improve the preservation of the products. From a quantitative point of view, there is no big difference between waste in industrialized countries and waste in developing countries, if not in the last step, which is that of domestic waste. In developing countries, the difficulty of preserving food implies a reduction in the minimum terms of waste production, while in industrialized countries, for a matter of lifestyle, domestic waste is very high, equal to 42% of total waste. On the one hand, therefore, it is necessary to offer technical solutions to developing countries for better food preservation - and that is precisely what FAO has decided to do in recent years by investing in packaging - while, on the other hand, it is necessary to act in industrialised countries on the education and information of citizens, which are not by chance integral parts of this measure. An overview of the supply chain makes it possible to identify the most critical steps in terms of losses and environmental impact. In Italy some large companies have joined a project to calculate the environmental impact of their product along the entire supply chain. It is time for the production of the ingredients, at the beginning of the chain, the one that weighs the most on the environment, while the distribution, final passage, has minimal impact on it. It is not, therefore, just a distribution problem. To avoid wasting, it is important to be aware of the impact on the environment of each product, just as it is essential to prevent waste production. With regard to the recovery of surpluses and their disposal, in Italy from a fiscal point of view, with Legislative Decree No 460 of 1997 and Law No 444 of 2007, there are facilities for those who give up surpluses free of charge in favour of the NLUS. However, there are still some easily surpassable limits that can make the procedure less complex. In this direction too, the measure we are about to adopt is undoubtedly a step forward. On environmental legislation it is right to intervene with the policy of incentives to strengthen recovery and re-use actions and reduce waste production as much as possible. Many municipalities have already done so, providing - for example - a discount on the waste tax for companies engaged in recovery and recycling. Of great importance is also the hygienic-sanitary aspect, because it is very difficult to recover and reuse the unsold. Action was also needed to harmonise sanitation legislation through clear and specific guidelines for non-profit organisations engaged in the recovery of food surpluses. Therefore, simplification and harmonisation of rules and procedures at national level will allow greater use to be made of virtuous recovery practices. I'm gonna finish. The measure under consideration gives organic regulation to all aspects of the phenomenon. The procedures for the donation and distribution of food surpluses to the most deprived persons are simplified. Those who donate will have tax incentives and can get a discount on the waste tax proportional to the amount of food donated. This is a measure that has long been invoked by operators in the sector. The audience of the non-profit associations involved is extended and a number of funds are set up for the distribution of food to the most deprived in order to encourage the reduction of waste. We believe, in this regard, that focusing on incentives has been a more convincing path than that travelled in France, which imposes only rules and sanctions on large-scale distribution, not bearing in mind that the main sources of food waste are households. So the objective, also in the future, will have to be to put more and more in harmony, on the one hand, the activity of charitable organizations and, on the other, the availability of food waste, especially those that are determined at the stage of distribution. For these reasons, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will vote in favour. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u318	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u320	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we would have expected a greater attention and openness from the majority in the assessment of the amendments to the measure under consideration, which - as I said during the general discussion and the examination of the individual amendments - requires a political sensitivity that leads to a broad convergence. On the other hand, we have been faced with a closing attitude on some of the amendments which merely follow - and I repeat repeat - the discussions held in the Commission, in particular criticism, as evidenced by the opinion of the Commission on hygiene and health. There is no point in returning to the issues already addressed during the general discussion, namely the value of the measure. That we had made it very clear and, above all, that we intended to support it was clear from the adoption of the articles, despite the rejection of the proposed common sense amendments. What bothers us is, however, the government's closing attitude, to which we know that it will correspond - it is only a matter of understanding what time it will arrive, whether before or after 8 p.m. - the tweet of the President of the Council of Ministers. But this is essentially the aim of the haste with which the Government is concluding the examination of the measure, despite - I repeat - the opinion of the Senate Health and Health Commission has indicated precisely one thing. I refer it again, because it remains in the acts: it has been pointed out that the text of Article 15 above appears to be characterized by editorial criticalities, inaccuracies and shortcomings such as to make it problematic to achieve the albeit shared objectives underlying the provisions and to suggest an inadequate level of in-depth investigation. Mixing the drug theme with the necessary care not to waste food really means mixing apples with pears, using an old saying. I say this to some senator who previously had the ambition to represent the voting guidelines of the North League. We are responsible and aware that the majority force the hand to lead to a vote, independently and indifferently from our consent or dissent. We know that there are associations in the country that are waiting for this normative innovation and that they will also offer opportunities to market operators who will be able to access tax benefits bringing in deduction of VAT or going to recover costs that otherwise should be dispersed together with the foodstuffs that instead are still destined to the food supply chain and not to the landfill. So on these issues we give a positive judgment. On the other hand, the judgment is negative regarding the unsavory choice to include the recovery of the drugs and the distribution of the same in a way that I do not hesitate to define superficial within this measure. We have had the satisfaction, not in this area of Parliament but in the previous passage to the House, of seeing our objection recognized by the aggravazione of an amendment that will at least lead the associations that will recover medicines for free distribution to have to avail themselves of health workers. It is not enough, we have repeated it today: we need a pharmacist and a prescription. It is wrong conceptually to mix the recovery of food waste with the recovery of medicines, expired or expired. Similarly, it is an error on the part of the Government to entrust the management of this measure to the Ministry of Education, instead abandoning the Ministry of Agricultural Policy to carry out its own task, assigned to it by the same law, which assigned it a certain role, thus giving up to be the main actor in the education of food. (at 19.37) (After CANDIANI). This despite the rhetoric of Minister Martina and the President of the Council of Ministers has accustomed us, in the past months, to hear us tell us that from Expo a new page for the Italian agro-food industry would be born and, again, for the battle against the waste of food. It seems that you have made a catwalk by cutting the ribbons, forgetting that this objective must be implemented, and you leave it simply to the Ministry of Education: a dignified thing, but you do not understand why this does not correspond to the presence, in this House and in the Commission, of the Minister of Education, while everything has been declined in the Committee on Agriculture: the logic lacks the Government, it is known. Mr President, we reasonably expected the government to consider our remarks. We have clear the difference between food waste due to a change of culture in generations and what is due instead to market modes that are normally defined as consumerism. We need to grow, we need to invest so that there is an increase in awareness on the part of citizens at all levels. In this regard too, unfortunately, we are not satisfied with the poor budget provided for by this measure: to include in such an important measure EUR 1 million in order to develop the policy of saving, of preserving food and to combat food waste throughout the national territory in a year, it really seems a laughable thing. This gives an idea of the need on the part of the Government to close the approval of the measure, to allow the President of the Council of Ministers the satisfaction of the usual tweet, instead postponing the concreteness and solidity of the measure that, without funding, will obviously have difficulty in finding implementation. 19.39 (Following CANDIANS). In these respects we are not satisfied, but we are aware that the measure must be approved, because, despite everything, the part concerning food waste is certainly worthy of consideration. You will have the responsibility to explain to the citizens, when the provisions of Article 15 on the re-use of medicines arise, the superficiality with which you have approached the subject, despite the fact that the Commission in charge indicated the criticalities and despite the amendments tabled in this House had identified alternative exit routes. We support the part about the necessary policy against food waste and leave it to you to have underestimated the aspects relating to the spread, I fear little controlled, of the medicines recovered and returned to the distribution to those who do not have a pharmacist or a doctor to whom they can entrust themselves. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u321	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u322	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u323	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I hope that the bill coming from the House of Deputies will be adopted today. I believe that the previous votes have made this House's sense of sharing a great deal. Those who preceded me also expressed well the meaning of the measure and I merely point out some general concepts, which I consider important and in particular the fact that it follows the Expo of Milan and the Charter of Milan, which I myself, like many other colleagues, have signed and shared and therefore becomes a kind of legacy, in continuity with the objectives that the Expo had set itself. I would like to make it easier to translate the measure, to which some Members have also pointed out the difficulty of applying the distinction between food and medicines, which are a more complex and delicate matter. I would like to say that the provision translates into a law, the law of the good Samaritan, that is to say of those who try to help others and avoid waste. Fortunately, in Italy - and in particular I quote the experience of my territory - these good practices are adopted every day. I mention in fact the case of Trentino solidarie, an organization born almost by chance and today very structured, which collects 2,000 tons of food per year, which would otherwise end up in the dumpsters, and every day assists hundreds of families in need. So it is, in fact, a practice that already exists and it is good to have it regulated and institutionalized in some way. I believe that the first watchword that the bill must have is simplicity and accessibility. It is not a law created to create new bureaucracy or superstructures, nor do I hope to create new offices, but to make possible a practice that should belong to every civilization. I also like to point out the logic adopted by Parliament, which is to support those who do good practice, unlike the legislation adopted in France that punishes those who do not. However, every road is good, in order to achieve the objective, which today is twofold. We are faced with worrying data, spread by FAO, the European Commission and some research institutes, which tell us that food waste is increasing today but poverty is also increasing. So, in fact, it is a contradiction that we have a moral duty, as well as a civil duty, to heal. Therefore, today the fight against all kinds of waste must be a fundamental objective and civic education for a conscious use of resources as well. It is up to this Parliament to try to give a regulatory aspect that makes it easier to do what should happen in everyday behavior. Within this provision there are many positive aspects: from educational ones involving schools, to informational ones, through RAI, television and press campaigns. There is also the promotion of research to promote recycling techniques and pharmaceutical standards. We know how high the level of waste, including expensive products, is. I am also thinking of the insertion of clothing recovery. I also like the simplification of legislation for producers and distributors, which tries to make official the concept of gratuitousness and goes against all kinds of speculation. I also welcome the tax incentives, which range from the deductibility and deductibility of certain charges for distributors, such as the possible reduction of waste tariffs for those who carry out these practices. Of course, the much more important challenge, which goes beyond this law, is that which requires us to review lifestyles and reconsider consumption patterns. The challenge is to facilitate the closure of the supply chains, so that they are highly recoverable. I also found it positive to call for catering and the fact that food leftovers can be removed, like all policies for reducing packaging. This naturally also involves environmental protection and the fact that, however, producing waste and not recovering it leads to increasing the cost of waste collection and related pollution problems. Equally acceptable is the fact that when food cannot be used for human nutrition it is recovered for animal feed or in any case for energy recovery or, in any case, for recycling. In addition to schools, all local authorities must be involved in these policies. The world of volunteering is absolutely indispensable. I hope that the Government, which will have to adopt several regulations under the responsibility of various ministries, will coordinate this initiative. I have heard today of possible conflicts between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agricultural Policy. If the objective is to be united, we must find convergence in order to avoid the tragedy that bureaucracy makes ineffective a measure that, on the other hand, wants to put in place efficient procedures that are accessible to all. Definitely the operators must be involved. In conclusion, this is not an easy measure, nor is it easy to apply, but it should, however, become a constant practice. I hope that the Government will succeed in making it concrete through simple decrees to be implemented. Together with the Agriculture Commission, with the first signatory, President Formigoni, I have also signed some agendas against pharmaceutical waste and drug recovery, which have been accepted by the Government and which can be a positive contribution so that this law really becomes, as I said before, a practice for everyone and is shared by the whole community, starting with the canteens and restaurants, mentioned by the same bill, which are those who work every day in contact with this type of problem. Of course, I would like to thank the rapporteur and all my colleagues who have contributed ideas and proposals. The amendments also contained very interesting proposals but, on the other hand, we must close with approval, because it is time that a practice carried out by volunteering and by us as responsible citizens became a rule governed by a measure. With this, I declare the Group's vote in favour of the Autonomous Communities.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u324	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u325	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u326	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what we have discussed today is a measure that speaks of the limitations and contradictions of our society, of our way of producing and consuming; it is a bill that also speaks to the younger generations, very careful to safeguard the planet and therefore the environmental impact of our every choice, the waste of resources, the coherence between words and actions. The measure starts from shared aims, but the whole text flies very high and de facto requires every practical application to the coordination table provided for in Article 8, which risks becoming a large container that will produce some hypermediate proposal with very slow times, but the delays accumulated in these years actually require to intervene quickly and determinedly. The whole text is for us a downward compromise compared to what has been happening abroad for years and that the same draft laws contained in this one text have actually represented. The text sets itself the practical objective of making possible what is actually forbidden today, namely to give food and medicines expired in order to re-use them and not to make them lost, but it is very far from what would be needed in practice: it does not provide specific obligations, as France has chosen to do, for the large-scale distribution or food business operators, but it introduces the possibility, therefore with all the derogations from the existing legislation providing obligations only for donors, who must allocate the surpluses received in free form and mainly for deprived persons. If we really believe in the importance of combating waste, we need defined obligations for all operators, from large retailers to retail operators, as is the case in many other European countries, from Denmark, where all operators - including retail operators - in the food sector are obliged to give all leftovers, at the end of the day of work, in special waterproof bags and other agents, outside the shops. In this way it is the associations and the individuals that take charge of the laps to withdraw them, therefore without cost of distribution to the operators, but of the individuals. We have adopted an agenda on this subject of mandatoryness today and we hope that the government will take this into account in future actions, otherwise all the work done so far would not make sense. In our opinion, this measure has a most charitable philosophy, which does not have much to do with what should be necessary for us, that is, an ecological approach, the use of all resources and against waste. For us, in fact, the key element is that food should not be wasted, regardless of the recipients, because it is the non-sprey that should be recognized as a value in itself. The bill intervenes only in the final part of the cycle of consumption to avoid producing waste and wasting, but it says nothing or little about how it is proper or can be consumed differently; I mean, in essence, education to conscious consumption. However, it is good to envisage distribution to the most deprived people, especially with the involvement not only of associations, through their facilities and canteens, but also of individual citizens. It is certainly important to involve the Ministry of Education, because school is a fundamental element (let's think about distribution in canteens) especially to avoid waste, but we know that it cannot work if we do not do food education and education to conscious consumption. All this can only work if you involve students and teachers, so if you change the pattern of development and consumption. It will be important to ensure, on the basis of approved agendas, that the Regions can enter into agreements with large retailers for the discount on expired products, which is extremely widespread in Europe (I think of France, Switzerland, Germany, the United Kingdom) and which is the least expensive and most immediate passage to facilitate the use of food before the deadline. It would have been appropriate to provide for the recovery of important resources to ensure the promotion and implementation of this bill, such as the taxation of drinks containing high sugar levels, which are harmful to adults and especially children. The adoption of an agenda on the use of an app for the circularity of the distribution of surpluses obviously opens up enormous potential, which also allows citizens to make available the food that expires with a network distribution, just as is the case in Denmark. Giving, as happens in many virtuous cases, bread, pizza or pastries at the end of the day by bakeries or pastry shops to individuals or organizations based on knowledge or relationships that organizations have established for years is a practice that, precisely with the experimentation of an app managed by the public, could easily be coordinated and extended and, after only a few months of experimentation and evaluation of the results, could be made mandatory. It's not impossible at all. For us as the Italian Left the role of the public should be to promote this exchange and reward citizens in various ways, for example with the discount on the waste tax for those who participate constantly in initiatives of reuse and networking of food in expiration. On the other hand, only the reduction on the waste tax for non-domestic activities related to commercial, industrial and professional activities is provided for in the law. We should envisage an obligation, without any reduction in the tariff, because the tariff mechanism, as conceived by the bill, risks making citizens pay for the virtuousness of the major commercial and industrial players. In any case, the adoption of this text against food waste is also an important step forward for us in relation to the current situation, although we would have preferred a debate which would have welcomed the amending work carried out by the whole of Parliament. As the Italian Left we share the importance of filling the absence and delay that our country had on these issues and therefore we will vote in favour of the text, although we believe that, in any case, we speak of a weak text, precisely because of the absence of specific and directly verifiable obligations and the unwillingness to imagine more ambitious objectives. For us the agendas approved today are a serious commitment; we will check over time that the Government tries to implement them in order to implement the law in practice. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u327	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u328	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u329	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I immediately voted in favour of this measure by my Group, the People's Area. It is a measure of great importance to us, which has important provisions, both on the fight against waste and on the other side, equally important, which involves the recognition of the extraordinary work that the third sector carries out, with various charitable activities aimed at the most needy sections of our population, in order to allow the reuse of food and pharmaceutical products with the aim of social solidarity. I also want to say, as President of the Committee on Agriculture, that the work in the Commission has been very positive and useful. The debate in this House today has not fully rendered the spirit with which all political forces have been helping to define a rapid process of the measure and to complete, through agendas that have been accepted today, the draft that Parliament, the Senate, wants to give to this problem. It is an important measure, which defines a certain regulatory framework, which in turn provides a solid legislative basis for activities of great social importance, but which have been carried out only spontaneously so far, without a clear regulatory framework. Attention. When I say "spontanea" I do not mean anything negative, on the contrary: in my conception there is great esteem and appreciation for those citizens who, in a personal or associated way, give life to free initiatives, with a strong commitment of their personal abilities and their time to help people - and they are so many in Italy - less fortunate than they are. But it was important to give a regulatory framework and this law finally gives it. It defines the procedures for the free disposal of food surpluses, guarantees both the originator and the assignee, lays down requirements for the conservation of food surpluses, establishes guarantees on the state of food, medicines and other products in the forms of free distribution. A coordination table is also established, involving a large number of representatives of the institutions and the associative world. The fund for the distribution of food to the most deprived persons is being refinanced and a national fund is set up for innovative projects aimed at limiting waste and the use of surpluses. This measure also addresses the issue of the distribution of clothing items used for social solidarity purposes and to organise the collection of medicines used or expired for donation or use. These interventions are supported by cover rules and tax-friendly measures. The adoption, of which I am sure, of this measure in the same text already adopted by the other branch of Parliament will allow the immediate entry into force of the measure and will therefore enable it to respond promptly to the pressing demands coming from the associative world, from the third sector and, ultimately, from a large group of the population that will benefit from the positive effects of the legislation. Having said that, a few more minutes to deepen two aspects and to make an operation of truth regarding some commonplace that has circulated in recent weeks in the press, even what is supposed to be very informed. The first aspect of this measure is the fight against waste. It is important that Italy, with this law, is endowed, first among modern countries, with an organic measure on this side. It has often been said in recent weeks and I have read from various quarters that Italy would be positioned at the last place, as a regulatory framework, in relation to the fight against food waste. It's not like that. The studies of the European Economic and Social Committee and the ad hoc committee place Italy in the middle of the ranking; it is a position, the one of the middle ranking in the fight against waste, which we want to improve with this measure. The data of the Politecnico di Milano, presented at the Milan Expo in October 2015, say that there are 5 million tons of recoverable food surpluses per year, 55% of which along the agri-food chain and 45% of consumers. Well, according to the studies made, thanks to the law that we are going to approve, in the next ten years it will be possible to halve the food waste in Italy, acting both on the food supply chain to promote the donation of food, and on consumers with campaigns of awareness and education that the measure itself provides. Secondly, as I mentioned in the first part of my speech, this law is also a great opportunity to support the tens of thousands of associations that make themselves available to assist the more than 4 million absolute deprived citizens of our country. How will this happen? Colleagues, it is not that before this law there were no rules, but none were within a specific law against food waste and this caused difficulty in using by donors. Today, however, through the clarity of the definitions and also of the terms of the food business operators, the subject and the food industry, this situation of uncertainty is overcome. In the case of confiscated food, it is confirmed that the authorities arrange the transfer to non-profit entities. This law makes the incentive to donors stable, already provided for by the last law of stability and that otherwise every year had to be reconfirmed. These and other further notes, for example, the recognition and incentive of the priority value of the recovery of food and food through donations for humanitarian purposes, means that I am convinced that the Senate can and must vote with a broad vote on a measure that places us at the top of the ranks of the advanced countries, in order to face at the same time two battles: the fight against waste and a dignified and stable assistance to our poor fellow citizens. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u330	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u331	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u332	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, in Italy more than four out of ten adults are overweight, a figure that covers all age groups, including the most tender and rising ones, it is right to say this to one person in two for those who sit at the table in Campania, Basilicata, Sicily and Molise. These are the recent figures released by the surveillance system of the Higher Institute of Health and someone might wonder what this has to do with food waste. In fact, waste, obesity and malnutrition are the absurd rings of the same chain, that of the food paradox. In a global context where production capacity exceeds demand, if on one side of the world there is a death from malnutrition, on the other one dies from overfeeding. And it is absurd to think that while in this House - that of a clearly overpowered nation - we decide how to dispose of surpluses, in 33 other countries outside of this, 26 of which in Africa, there is a perennial food insecurity due to droughts, floods and civil conflicts. A varied list that includes Syria and Yemen, but also Niger, Cameroon, Chad and the Democratic Republic of Congo, for example. Territories that every day welcome refugees from neighbouring countries and that live phase 3, which technicians define as a phase of nutritional crisis and which is destined to grow according to FAO. A gruesome geography that also affects climate change, the environment and nature. Yes, because it is inconceivable to think that abuses in agriculture, livestock and fisheries have no consequences. Unfortunately, the consequences do exist and we pay them every day in natural disasters. It is important to envisage an alternative food culture, good for health, friend of the ecosystem. Starting precisely from the environment, we demand that in the context of the national waste prevention programme we not only achieve a simple reduction, but also the end of landfilling biodegradable waste. In view of the negative effects on health and the environment, therefore, we call for a food education that favours a reduced impact on habitats and natural resources, with particular attention to the reduction of consumption of meals of animal origin. And then we need clarity of the labels. That is why we reiterate the need for the expiry date and the conditions for the preservation of products which constitute food surpluses to be precisely stated. Not only that. Vending machines for foodstuffs must carry the list of products and individual ingredients outside, in a clearly legible form. In all foodstuffs and beverages which are potentially harmful to health, especially those intended for consumption by minors, the words "overuse of this product' may cause obesity or serious pathologies" must be clearly and decipherably reported. It is essential to make it binding for operators in the sector the free disposal of surpluses for the most deprived, in compliance with appropriate procedures for packaging, transport, distribution, storage and use and in compliance with the short supply chain and animal welfare. In addition, surpluses have to comply not only with the rules on hygiene and food safety, but also with those on safety at work. We also ask that by decree of the MEF, in agreement with the Minister of Health, starting from 2016, producers of soft drinks with added sugars or sweeteners must pay an extraordinary contribution whose proceeds will benefit the municipalities that provide tax relief and free advertising on the municipal website for the commercial stores of the food sector that practice the self-composting of organic waste, they supply for more than 80% from suppliers in the provincial radius, they administer products on the plug for more than 50%. Exercises, these, which must be rewarded and encouraged with the destination of additional resources. Moreover, in order to promote the local supply chain of reuse and to facilitate donations, the municipalities must identify suitable collection centres for temporary storage of food that, in any case, must be traced in accordance with the principles of rotation, transparency and public evidence. There must also be serious sanctions for those who dolly destroy excess food products and consumer markets, with extra attention to bread, undisputed companion of the company on our tables. Institutions receiving free supplies must have precise characteristics and, that is, they must have statutes in which the charity activity is expressly reported and must be entered in the appropriate section of the list kept by the Ministry of Labour or in an equivalent regional list. This activity, in fact, if not recorded and properly monitored, risks generating non-transparent situations that can then conflict with the purpose of the law, that is to reduce food waste for real. There should be an express ban on advertising on public and private television networks, national or local, in the programming slots for minors and mealtimes, food products and drinks which contain a high level of saturated fatty acids, animal fats, sugars and free salts, as well as palm oil, the excessive intake of which can be very harmful to health. Education and training in schools are also needed in order to reduce and discourage the administration of fatty foods. This is why it is appropriate to promote the dissemination of useful information, guidelines, institutional initiatives and information campaigns on this topic and on food waste in general. The National Fund for innovative projects aimed at the limitation of waste and the use of surpluses must have virtuous recipients, i.e. those who make re-use their excellence, especially for the removal of food leftovers, those who promote food diets with a prevalence of products of plant origin, also in view of the poor environmental impacts associated with meat consumption. All this must be done through public evidence procedures, also in the context of the declaration of the beneficiaries of the use of the goods sold, and with the help of a constant monitoring of the data relating to the waste in the agro-food chain. As regards invitations to tender for collective catering, hospitality in hotels and the supply of food, it is time for the public authorities to provide specific rewarding scores to the tenderer who achieves the free recovery and disposal of surpluses, who accords preference to the agricultural and food products closest to the place of consumption and who proves to be an active part in the upstream reduction of waste, including through innovative processes in production techniques, infrastructure, processing and packaging processes and in the management of the post harvest. We also reiterate the involvement of public bodies in the free sale of other products for social purposes, provided that they do not pursue profit-making purposes. All this can and must happen. We need to rethink this issue from a multidisciplinary perspective because food is not just life, it is also the environment, health and protection of human rights. I declare, therefore, the favorable vote of the 5 Star Movement with indispensable warnings. Last Minute Market researchers last September reiterated that one third of the food produced annually is thrown into the garbage. We are talking about over a billion tons of food, four times the amount needed to feed the hungry on the planet, estimated at 868 million people. This means that normative productions are not enough; public opinion, businesses and institutions must be made more aware of the problem of waste and the need and urgency to reduce it, until they are eliminated. The big distribution, the multinationals, the colossus of the food-junk can't keep turning their heads on the other side. I conclude with a phrase of the father of non-violence, vegetarian by choice, spiritual guide for his country and example for many people in the world. This man rightly claimed that the most powerful weapon on earth is the fork. I'm talking about Gandhi. Well, Gandhi argued that the earth provides sufficient resources to satisfy every man's needs, but not the greed of every man. Well, our duty is to put up with the greedy monster of inequality, starting with the bread we eat every day. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u333	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u334	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u335	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the explanation of vote normally takes place at the end of the speech, and I will immediately say that the Group I represent will vote in favour of the measure. I immediately express it because there is certainly, in this expression, a fund of disappointment, not so much for the principles that animate the bill that will become law, but for the fact that we did not want to share a provision that had to be supported by everyone. Who can claim to be in favor of food waste? Nobody, of course. So, if these are the principles that we all agree with, why not adopt some amendments that were certainly good and on which there should not have been an attitude of closure on the part of the government, being clear indications, that went in the right direction to regulate also the re-use of drugs? Some fellow senators, such as Senator Mandelli and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, said something right. The whole measure clearly states that aid must go to the less well-off and the needy. Why not, then, include a qualified person, such as the pharmacist, who is a Member of the European Parliament, in order to establish correctly how the drug should be distributed, even by providing for an amendment to the figure of the voluntary pharmacist? In other words, we are talking about a non-targeted figure, for some reason, for the benefit of a category, but for the benefit of those consumers who, rightly, even if less well-off, have the right to have a qualified figure, so that it is not a prerogative only of those who pay the drug and, as such, already benefit from this service. Why not also provide it for people who really do not have the opportunity to pay for drugs and who, through this measure, will one day be able to benefit from it? I believe that it was not right for the government to adopt an attitude of closure. It wasn't at all, Mr. Deputy Minister. I will not dwell on the fact that millions of people are starving and, on the other hand, millions are abusing food to the point of dying. It has been widely said, the principles have been properly set out, listed and articulated. Now we will see how they will be implemented, when this measure must also be operational, because otherwise it means that we will have failed. In order not to overlap with what my fellow Members have said, I wanted to highlight this note of controversy, but I also want to grasp the aims of this measure, which are certainly positive. Mr Vice-Minister, I am obliged to say to the House that today I had a moment when I asked myself: am I asleep or awake? I saw Mr Martina in the Chamber and there was a moment when I was a little shaken. Then it occurred to me what Schopenhauer said: Dreams and life are pages of the same book. To the point that I have come to the conclusion that he watches her many times becomes almost a dream, because then, turning around, I have no longer seen the Minister, after he made his statement, saying that we must pursue these results. I would have liked to say to the Minister, and I say to you, Mr Vice-Minister, that he is very present and I give him, in terms of food waste, that I have seen many farms producing with so much passion and sacrifice and then I have seen fields of carrots and tomatoes being plowed and orchards eradicated, because there is no longer the convenience to produce. Don't you think this is also a food waste? Do you not think that a policy really needs to be developed to ensure that this does not happen or at least that this production and these products can be used for good? Even acquiring these products, so that they are not thrown to the ground, plowed or destroyed, can be a way to help people who really need it. Therefore - and I conclude my speech with an explanation of vote - our vote will be in favour. But I really wanted to tell the Minister, but I guess it can be something dreamy by now, so you tell him, Mr. Deputy Minister, that agriculture - and in the tones and words I used to hold back the emphasis that normally characterizes me when I talk about agricultural problems - deserves to be treated in another way. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u336	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u337	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u338	VACCARI (PD). Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments, because some in this House have probably missed the sense of the vote that we have to give today. Mr Candiani was right when he pointed out that we are perhaps prey to a distraction from what is happening outside of here. I would add that in this House we have heard a lot of other things, which are never lacking in our debates, and we have emphasized the legislative perfectionism, often motivated by the desire, in the end, to make no law. Instead, in declaring the Democratic Party's favorable and convinced vote, I would like to return to some of the contents of this bill, because it is a parliamentary initiative promoted by 217 colleagues in the House, which has united ten draft laws, and I would like to recall that of my colleague Chiara Gadda of the Democratic Party. It is an initiative on which it has been possible to start an important confrontation with the ministries of agricultural food and forestry policies, the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and health, with the respective Commissions and between the various political forces, deepening that today I believe allows us to approve a good law of the state without any further changes. This is a work for which I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Bertuzzi, Mr Formigoni, Mrs Pignedoli, and all the members of the Committee on Agriculture for having decided, not without debate and debate, not to make any changes to the Chamber text, gathering the many exhortations that the auditees had addressed in this regard and also collecting various contents on agendas (I am thinking of the draft law of my colleague Laura Puppato). It is also a work that gathers what the Environment Commission proposed, unanimously, in January 2015, during the discussion on the related environment, on administrative simplification for donors and broadening the audience of recipients of donations. I do not want to dwell on the data and I mention only very few of them, which concern our country. According to the Observatory Last minute market, University of Bologna, food waste is worth over 8 billion euros, about half a point of gross domestic product, equal to 800 euros per head for each Italian. At the same time, as the rapporteur, Senator Bertuzzi, said, poverty in Italy has grown, so much so that more than 6 million people live in absolute poverty. Here is explained in these few numbers the deep sense of this choice: to try to reduce this inequality and to set up a circular economic system, which wastes as little as possible, especially among the primary goods such as food. We need to do so immediately, without waiting for further conditioning, especially of corporations, which we have heard too much in this House. Good practices and innovative projects in the field of the fight against waste, as Senator Formigoni said, do not place our country at zero year: there are, they are not lacking, they are not lacking and they are all documented. There are many people, local authorities, universities, business associations, ONLUS, subjects in the third sector and cooperation (consumers), who have promoted important projects in recent years, based on the legislation of the good Samaritan, of course, but also on the basis of motions, guidelines, European and national political will. These projects were born at the end of the 1990s and at the beginning of the 2000s. I am thinking of those of my Province, promoted by the Coop of consumers or by social cooperation, called with particular names such as "City food" or "Brutti but good", still operational, then acquired at national level with equally significant names, such as "Good end". I am thinking of the role played by the Fondazione banco alimentare and Caritas diocesana. I am thinking of the January 2012 resolution on this issue, approved by the European Parliament and promoted by the European Parliamenter Salvatore Caronna, and the initiatives launched in 2014, European year against food waste. I am thinking of the academic spin off of the agricultural faculty of the University of Bologna promoted by Professor Segré, then became a national and European reference laboratory, with the birth of the National Observatory on Waste and the definition of the first National Plan for the prevention of food waste. I am thinking of the association of Italian Municipalities "Spreco zero" founded by the mayor of the Municipality of Sasso Marconi and last minute market, to network and implement good practices and spread the culture of the fight against waste. Alongside all this, I think about what Expo 2015 meant on this topic and the experiences made in those days in the Ambrosian canteen of the needy, to show, at least in part, that we are what we eat. About Expo 2015 solemn commitments have been made in the Milan Charter, from many countries, including ours, with Prime Minister Renzi and Minister Martina, to which we are now following in a concrete way and with a parliamentary initiative. Thanks to Expo 2015 it was even more evident to many as the increase in global consumption and waste put pressure on the ecosystems in which we live and how the crucial problems of the planet, such as energy, environment, climate change, poverty and food, cannot be addressed separately, but how many problems are systemic, interconnected and interdependent. A circularity that the European Union today recognizes as a strategic for the industrial and sustainable development of the Continent and that the Commission territory, environment, environmental assets of the Senate has demanded that it also includes a unified legislation against food waste. Waiting for that definitive European choice, our country today decides to play its part, in an original way, improving and innovative the provisions already in force, overcoming uncertainty and obstacles, giving an organic framework to act against food waste and not only, with a participatory and rewarding logic. Among the objectives of the draft law was also to make the destination actually viable for the purposes of social solidarity of products that can no longer be sold and to remove such products from waste and destruction, thereby reducing the production of waste. Yes, waste, because their disposal costs an average of EUR 70 per tonne and the reduction of the waste of hundreds of thousands of tons would save the community very significant costs, while reducing the harmful effects on the environment of the different techniques of disposal. Waste which, moreover, being packaged, could not even be delivered to the collection of organic waste, where it is practised. Therefore, the reduction of waste production as a policy choice for sustainable development, which is also included in this measure in an important and effective way. We are talking, of course, about food, but also drugs and clothing, as well as other basic necessities. These aims are pursued through rules of simplification and incentives of the existing tax provisions and local taxes, through an extension of the beneficiary bodies and categories of essential products admitted to donation, with measures related to the reduction of packaging, labels and family bags for catering, the sale of agricultural products in the field. On the subject of drug donation we have heard an interesting debate today, but too conditioned by corporate interests. On the subject, I believe that the commitments that the Government has made with specific agendas, which colleagues have also recalled, are important and indicate the path to be taken back to work in the coming months, starting from the discussion that the Health and Health Commission has been able to carry out on the bill presented by several colleagues, as supported by Senators De Biasi and Bianconi. For this reason we take on our responsibility today, with our head high and with pride, and we choose a decisive change of pace for our country, bringing into approval a good law, which values and supports those who already work in this field. We know that from now on we will need something more, on the level of communication and education, as the bill provides and supports, also gathering the exhortation coming from the Italian promoters of the thirty-sixth World Earth Day. I am thinking of the bill on food education, first signed by my colleague Pignedoli. I am thinking of a comprehensive European campaign for food and environmental education at European level. I am thinking of the proposal for a new European year against food waste, to be identified by 2025, to monitor waste reduction targets. Even so, we can measure the effectiveness of the Italian way of combating waste that today makes our country more inclusive, more responsible and more just towards the present, but above all towards the future of its citizens. A virtuous and far-sighted choice that the Senators of the Democratic Party will vote, today more than ever, with conviction and determination. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u339	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u340	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u341	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u342	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2290 as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). The draft law No 2320 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u343	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2500, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Russo, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u344	Madam President, even taking into account the time, I would ask for permission to attach the text of the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u345	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u346	Madam President, as I announced earlier today during the debate in the first Commission, we have once again decided to present the question of the preliminary ruling QP1 on this umpteenth decree-law, not as an act of ritual, but because we cannot fail to point out to this House that we have almost completely - I repeat almost yesterday's intervention - been deprived of the exercise of our legislative power by the Government. In the specific case of the measure under discussion, we would like to highlight a number of aspects very quickly. We are once again faced with a decree-law which repeats for the fourth time the extension for the entry into force (which was to take place on 1 July 2016) of the telematic administrative process; a measure that we had welcomed in the initial approach, considering absolutely necessary that the administrative process could enter into operation. Instead, for the fourth time we are faced with an extension, because the deadline is moved to 1 January 2017, with a further extension of the trial period. This is, therefore, a classic extension intervention, which, among other things, you could include in the recent decree-law on territorial authorities, so the arguments we have seen and listed in that provision were uneven and heterogeneous. On the other hand, once again, we wanted to use the decree-law. The distinction and mutual respect for the constitutional prerogatives of the Government and Parliament in the form of loyal cooperation should require respect for the form of parliamentary government, relations between Parliament and the Executive, as well as the process of formation of laws, as is clearly provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution, which, on the other hand, is once again violated. We do not believe, in fact, that in the decree-law in question, precisely because of the particularity and repetition of the extension itself, there may be the prerequisites provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution. I do not want to tediare you quoting the already archaic judgments of the Constitutional Court in this regard, but for the umpteenth time we are faced with the use - we can say - of the decree-laws by the Government. Moreover, there is the suspicion that we wanted to use a separate measure, rather than include the extension of terms perhaps in another decree-law, since the Government makes a lot of them, to insert another rule, that is, that, as you know perfectly well, that makes it possible to assume 1,000 units. That, in itself, is a positive note, Madam President, because we know that for years now there has been a chronic absence of any recruitment of personnel in our courts and the Ministry of Justice, and we know perfectly well how difficult the work is carried out within them. In fact, the decree-law was used for this reason: precisely to avoid a more in-depth discussion. Therefore, we are faced with obvious contradictions and, in our opinion, also in this case, with a series of violations, because in the decree-law itself we cannot understand the balance between the use and the sliding of the rankings and the indication of real competitions. We are faced with a violation of Article 77 and a systematic violation of Article 70. I wonder what you will do, if constitutional reform ever goes through, with that new Article 70, which is absolutely bizarre and long-winded, which you have approved. We are also faced with the violation of Article 97 of our Constitution, namely the blatant and repeated violation of what our Constitution indicates as the good performance of our administration. For all these reasons, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, we ask the House not to consider this measure. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u347	He asked Senator Bernini to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u348	Madam President, we too make the same request to this House. And I did so yesterday with regard to the measure on local authorities, in which, just as in today's one, the requirements of necessity and urgency are totally lacking. In this case it is very simple to demonstrate the absence of these requirements, which we remember once again - and we apologise for this, because it has become a tired rite, but in reality we should not apologise for it, but it is the House which should apologise for the systematic violation of one of its fundamental arrangements - only the allocation of the right powers to the right bodies, in accordance with the right procedures. Legislative power lies with Parliament and the Government only in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency on the basis of criteria of homogeneity and recognition of content. Once again, the measure in question disapproves them in a Marchan way, as Mrs De Petris said. It is the fourth extension of the time limits. We know that the Constitutional Court, since the late 1990s - again in this case, pardon the cursed teaching vocation to recall the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court - denies the recurrence of decree-laws; considers the recurrence of an extraordinary and exceptional measure in itself unconstitutional. In this case there is an additional factor: the element, Madam President, is not only technical but also political. We know that this Government has claimed the electronic administrative process and digital signature as - I quote verbatim an expression of our President-in-Office of the Council - a flagship of its activity; a flagship that started two years ago and - alas - the flag has now faded, because it continues not to really apply, it continues to remain in that dreamlike category that our President of the Council likes so much proclamations. But never before does the problem exist. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that administrative justice plays a fundamental role in our country, and not only in regulating relations between public administrations and between public administration and citizens, but also in managing all medium-sized, large and even small works with rapid and efficient criteria, which, if poorly managed, drive away entrepreneurs, growth and economic well-being. We all know this because we have had dramatic examples of foreign companies that have tried to root economic activities in our country and, after uninterrupted sequences of appeals, lately decided or not decided, they have decided to leave. As in this case, therefore, it is absolutely essential that the application of a standard exists in nature and is not only a dreamlike proclamation, especially because all the rest of Europe around us applies the telematic process, informs the process - and not only administrative, but also civil and criminal - and applies digital signature to it. Our European partners have really put that flagship on. And I would add in passing - but it is not irrelevant - that we would also have committed ourselves in Europe to doing the same a long time ago. So here, too, we have to point out that there is a non-compliance. This choice, ladies and gentlemen, to make a fourth extension and even to dedicate a measure to the fourth extension of time limits for the application of the telematic administrative process, which our President-in-Office of the Council gave two years ago, is a serious political consequence, it is a profound choice, a choice of inefficiency. We all know - I do not need to tell you, you teach me - that late justice, whether civil, criminal or administrative, is a denied justice and therefore a non-justice, useless for all; even the government has said so. I could quote verbatim - I did it in the Commission - the words of the Government in the annual report on the state of justice, in which it states and states that the non-application of computerization criteria that speed up the process represents a great disappointment for citizens and a departure and a disamore of their trust in justice. So if the government knows, why doesn't it? And that's just part of it. The second part - I must say, ladies and gentlemen, much more insidious - concerns the decision to include in the Commission, in a prodigious, somewhat impetuous and swindling manner, a very important measure, which concerns the enrichment of organic plants in the Ministry of Justice. Putting new hires at the service of the administration of justice for non-management roles is a good and fair thing. However, first of all, it should be done by not ripping the opportunity for Parliament to discuss it; secondly, if it is done and wrong, by including it as an article of a decree-law in a branch of Parliament at the end of the debate, it must be done at least with a criterion, i.e. by explaining who has the legitimate expectation of covering those and what posts, on the basis of which objective criteria, according to which percentage distribution, perhaps identifying the subjects who have an expectation of being hired. In fact, this decree-law, in a very confusing way and I must say that it is not perfectly opaque in good faith (this is the impression that we have drawn from it in the Commission and we have discussed it for a long time), identifies a number of potentially free places, which must be covered by scrolling, which means that huge national ranking, that immense and unfortunately rising reservoir of the national ranking of suitables, which we all know, or by competition. But then, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, in an absolutely solitary way and without having discussed it with Parliament, inserts a measure that deserves a bill in its own right, because we are talking about rooting jobs in the Ministry of Justice. And it does so without dedicating a measure to it, without interfacing with Parliament, without listening to what Parliament has to say and without telling us how the four identifiable categories, namely the eligible national rankings, subjects mentioned in this measure, but not potentially placed in these assumptions, the subjects that will remain from the elimination of the Provinces, still not happened (we financed the Provinces just yesterday), the potentially hiring ex novo subjects and the famous trainees, that we surely remember, because they are people who have provided since 2011, according to Law No 98 of 2011, a deserving activity and service - it has recognized also the Undersecretary - to the administration of justice in the courts and that they have, yes, gained a legitimate expectation, here, we do not know how many of these subjects, how and on the basis of which objective criteria they will be able to access the competitions. In fact, we don't even know if these competitions will be celebrated, because if these places will be covered by scrolling (and certainly suitable subjects in the huge national ranking that are and many), we won't even know if there will be innovative recruitment outside and beyond the ranking. All of these colleagues, allow me, are not serious. As well as having difficulties in covering, as we have asked and have pointed out in the Commission, because there would also be an article which is not irrelevant, Article 81, which provides for new provisions to be covered by specific budgetary posts of the State. We are told that there is a fund of the Ministry of Justice that can cover these recruitments indefinitely - and I stress: indeterminate - for the years 2016 and 2017. We'll see, we're not very convinced. And then, what's gonna happen? Colleagues, no more tearing. I say this very serenely but with great concern: it is the second time that we say the same basically and not because we have an arterial-clerotic approach to parliamentary activity, but because unfortunately we are confronted with the same problems and we must always find the same mistakes, the same inefficiencies and the same ineffectiveness of the activity of this Government. So, for this reason, we hope that this measure will stop here. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u349	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u350	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u351	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I will be very brief because the most has been said. Article 77, Article 70, has been referred to, but I believe that constitutionality must meet a requirement, that of reasonableness and such a thing cannot be considered reasonable. We are talking about the fourth extension of a measure that has been delayed in its application four times, a measure that comes from a law provision of 2010: we are in 2016 and we extend it for six months, an amendment of the House requires another three months of extension, for what? For the realization of the telematic administrative process. To me it seems obvious that the administrative process and other relatives of the administrative process are exclusively the usual announcement, which someone wanted to make saying: from now on everything will travel in electronic format. And that's a joke. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] I say that by testifying to my experience. I put a referendary question for the repeal of the Fornero law: having collected 600,000 signatures to be able to support the request, I filed them with the Cassation and my application successfully passed the examination of the Cassation, after which the question was forwarded to the Constitutional Court. I read one day in the Official Journal that the sitting has been convened to decide whether or not the referendum is admissible. Having never received any notification from the Constitutional Court, I go to the Court to ask for the reason for the failure to notify and the offices, apologizing, make a search and the registered letter lay, without anyone knowing anything, in a post office in Milan, for which I was unable to constitute myself, through a lawyer, the next day. I remembered leaving my PEC, my e-mail address, and asked why they sent a registered letter. I was told that the Constitutional Court is not equipped with the JEP. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So I wonder what we are talking about: if the Constitutional Court does not have certified e-mail, do we expect the farthest and smallest court to act through the electronic format? We're making fun of each other! I remember when a colleague, I think he was the rapporteur of this draft law (and then I will correct myself if I am wrong), introduced the abolition of the transmission of acts by fax. We realized, after we abolished the use of the fax, that many offices were not equipped with it. And now, once again, are we asking for an extension? It seems to me that we are faced with a mockery. Moreover, I miss the meaning of this decree-law because, in order to insert a six-month extension, an amendment could be tabled to some measure and good night, so we put it in all colors, then there is also the one thousand-prorogation decree even if this is not enough because we do it once a year while the extension is six-monthly and therefore we have always made two a year. The passage to the House is therefore exploited, and I wonder how President Boldrini could have declared that amendment acceptable and also how the President of the Senate could not assess the homogeneity with the text of the provision. The title speaks of the conversion into law of the decree-law extending time limits provided for by legislative provisions on the telematic administrative process. The amendment introduced to the House of Deputies allows the recruitment of a thousand staff for civil, criminal and administrative trials; but we are talking about the administrative process; therefore, the criminal and civil fora had absolutely nothing to do with what we are talking about. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] When one goes to look - it seems to me that the last competition for justice was in 1999 - it turns out that there is, once again, the trick. I say to you, then, that, even if it had been constitutional, I would have voted on a preliminary question with respect to constitutionality because the principle that one enters into a public role through a competition is being bypassed. In fact, there are a thousand places that we go to assign - it would seem a beautiful thing - through the sliding of rankings of competitions already carried out - I remember that there is the unique role and, therefore, not only concerns the justice sector, but the whole public administration - and, therefore, first they put in place with the sliding of the current rankings and after they do a competition and it is said that you can possibly consider the titles of those who have done the internship at the prosecutors and courts. By mistake I met Minister Madia, whom I politely asked if the winners of the competitions in the public administration were tens of thousands; she sincerely replied that there were many more. Tens of thousands are the ones who competed on Rome. So where's the pageant? We already know that the competition will never take place, that no place will be reserved for those who for 400 euros per month have been doing the internship for ten or twenty years. We know that the names of those who will be hired in this competition are already written. So, it was used as a Trojan horse this decree-law to make a stabilization of known people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I'm not in on this. I ask and I will continue to ask for the origin to be indicated because it would be strange for me to see the chancellor being placed in a court of law one who may have competed to be a janitor, while the one who worked for 20 years in that Registry is left at home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u352	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u353	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u354	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u355	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, our Group will clearly vote in favour of this question, both for the reasons set out very well by Senator Bernini and for the reasons put forward by the other proposers, Senator De Petris and Senator Calderoli. Convincingly, I will vote in favour precisely because, because of the extraneousness of matter, the House has come to the point tense on the matter of recruitment, which had nothing to do with this decree. We shall therefore vote in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u356	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Verification of Calderoli quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on draft law No 2500 president. I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator De Petris and other senators (QP1), Senator Bernini and other senators (QP2) and Senator Calderoli. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u357	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u358	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u359	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to clarify the opening of the general debate. Senator Stefani and Senator Malan are enrolled in general discussion. You will explain to me how to conduct the general debate, since the two colleagues must take part at the same time in the meeting of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Members remain in the Chamber and take part in the general debate, as has been defined. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). What does the Junta do? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Junta will await the end of the general discussion. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). All right, great. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u360	Madam President, I do not hide that I too was surprised, because it was planned (at least so I was informed) that the general debate would open tomorrow. However, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the main points of the measure that we are about to examine tomorrow, if not directly at the end of the general debate this evening. We are in the usual position: the Government continues to insist on gagging Parliament, removing its prerogatives, that is, the possibility of holding a debate between opposition and majority in order to take measures that are as much in line with the expectations of citizens and the country as possible. The lack of debate and of that necessary confrontation between majority and opposition actually leads to the adoption of measures, let me say, at least incomplete and certainly not exhaustive. This is the case with the last measures put forward by the Government in this House in the last seven days: the question of trust has been raised out of four, while others have been approved by a majority, closing the ranks among their Members for no change to be made. This measure was born with the intention to streamline the times and procedures of the telematic administrative process, and instead it has turned into a sort of employment office that the Government uses to increase the ranks of the Ministry of Justice thus putting a patch to the defective Delrio law. Well, Madam President, for this and for other reasons that will certainly be better expressed in the explanation of vote, we are convinced that it needs a drastic change in the performance of the Senate's activities. This is because it is necessary to produce measures that are as consistent as possible with economic growth that the country expects, thus giving companies the possibility to have a fairer, fairer and faster justice, even if administrative. This is not the case, because the average time of an administrative process is five hundred days, which represent a boulder for investors, who certainly cannot consider our country a country in which you can easily make investments. Instead of going to reduce these five hundred days, what does the government do? Postpone the terms of the entry into force of the telematic administrative process. It is certainly not the right choice that the government could have made, but in reality it is what we are used to seeing, that is, an executive who prefers to tweet yet another news, that is to say "a thousand more jobs" instead of giving the whole country a faster and fairer justice. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u361	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u362	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u363	[[Senator Calderoli points out that he wants to intervene]] ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to point out to you that, in the absence of the Government, it seems to me that there is no longer a chance of continuing this debate. I think that the general debate on this measure, with all our good will, cannot continue under these conditions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calderoli, you wanted to intervene for the same thing? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u364	Colleagues, appreciated the circumstances, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u365	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u366	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u367	ANGIONES (PD). Madam President, I would not have spoken if I did not consider the matter to be serious. Sometimes even one of the major and most prestigious national newspapers can find the publication of an article that, while dealing with particularly important issues, contains insulting and defamant statements for an entire community and devoid of any adherence to reality. This is what happened this morning to the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" with an article signed by Corrado Zunino on the cases of violence perpetrated in various forms against children, in particular in kindergartens and schools of different Italian cities, among other things carried out by the subjects responsible for their supervision and education, i.e. by teachers. The article is obviously interesting and the reconstruction that is done demonstrates a thorough preliminary work by the journalist. However, the point that seems to me to be to say the least regrettable is to identify the territories of our country in which those ill-treatments, those beatings, those violence on children could also be induced in not better specified cultural customs and roots. Speaking of those terrible facts, Dr. Zunino writes in fact: It does not go up from the deep Barbagia the story of the mistreatment of the little pupils. Touch Rome, Grosseto, Pisa, Bolzano. I do not think that we can even conjure up respect for freedom of the press, because it certainly has nothing to do with the freedom of expression of a journalist. Written like this, that article is a perfect racist photograph, made by an intellectual - as is a journalist - who proposes discrimination in our country between people who, by culture, can do horrible things and people who, by culture, should not do them. It is an offense not only to the inhabitants of Barbagia, but to the whole of Sardinia and to every Sardinian. In Sardinia, of course, since this morning the article has already generated many controversy and the director of Republic, Dr. Calabresi, has already apologized for several hours with the readers and the same has been the author of the article. Well, we must take note of the latter's apology and think of a tragic slide, as he himself has called it. But let me give Dr. Zunino some very brief information. Barbagia is a vast mountainous region of central Sardinia, covering an area of almost a thousand kilometers, with over one hundred thousand inhabitants. The barbaricians descend from the prenuragic and nuragic populations, which are among the first civilizations of the Mediterranean. Neither the Carthaginians before nor the Romans afterwards managed to bend the pride of those populations. The Romans called them "barbarbari" and hence the name of "barbagia" (Barbagia), which derives from the Latin Barbia, precisely to contrast it with Romania and that is the rest of the territory that instead was submissive to Rome. Since then, these were not wild or barbaric populations, but populations that were proudly never completely bent from Rome. I exclude that there has ever been a culture of violence against children. I do not know Dr Zunino personally, but I suggest him to redeem today's slide with a work as thorough - as this morning's - on Barbagia, its history, its traditions and the civilization of its inhabitants. Certainly in the future, at least I hope, it will stop and avoid writing nonsense like the ones it wrote this morning. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u368	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u369	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u370	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, we are here in Parliament as a spokesperson for the citizens, because we know very well that citizens normally suffer, but they have absolutely no chance of having a voice. So I'm taking care of this anomaly right now. Madam President, Renzi - and unfortunately we have also seen this lately - has absolutely no idea that the characters he has included in the RAI - these are in fact choices made by the President of the Council - not only have far exceeded the salary ceilings that have been set by the law but that, in fact, if we think about it, their salaries are also taken by the RAI canon. And with the last measure wanted by the Democratic Party, there was just a forced coercion of this RAI fee, with the payment of the fee through the electric bill. Madam President, several people found 70 euros in their bills in July. Of course, I imagine if we went to ask President Renzi why he suddenly took 70 euros away from us, he would reply: What's 70 euros? The price of a backpack! No, it's not! In fact, if we notice, there is no special exemption from the RAI fee. For example, a person who takes below 8,000 euros, and maybe does not exceed an age group, so a person who is really ill and is below the poverty line, will have to pay the fee all at once. Thanks to who? To Renzi. Madam President, I take charge of this. It would be appropriate for the Government to immediately pass a measure allowing these people who could not pay the fee in July to be able to actually postpone it in monthly instalments the following year. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u371	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u372	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u373	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today in particular I want to give voice to three Lucan environmental associations. These are No waste Trisaia, Scan the slags, and the OLA (Lucana environmentalist organization), which have been subject of preventive interest by the Minister of Interior Alfano. In his annual report to Parliament, he pointed out, in reply to this position also to Potenza, that Lucan environmentalism is constantly being monitored by representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, because preventing it is just as important as suppressing it. All this seems to be a deliberate attitude aimed at discrediting and criminalizing. Instead, in Basilicata, always for voice no more than Alfano, representative of the institutions perhaps without knowing it, but of Roberti, national prosecutor anti-mafia, in Potenza, during the press conference that followed the arrests for the famous problem of Tempa Rossa, that probably someone will remember, words have been spoken that weigh like boulders for the entire Basilicata Region. Attorney Roberti's words were: "We are faced with a mafia criminal organization, organized on an entrepreneurial basis." Also Gratteri - and I must not remember who Nicola Gratteri is - has indicated in the Basilicata a region in which the coasts of the 'ndrangheta Calabria had carried out, and are making, massive investments, probably in operations that conflict with environmental law and therefore with the battles put in place precisely by the associations to which I have given voice. In view of this picture, what does the owner of the Viminale do? Rather than monitoring with greater attention who, as has been shown, delinque, who insults the environment as well as the health of people, monitors precisely citizens who, meeting in associations, try to fight for the integrity of their environment and maybe also for the protection of their health. I would remind you that a President of the Council (I think Matteo Renzi) said that it was necessary to end it with committees and committees. On the contrary, I hope that associations of citizens increasingly convinced of the need to fight against a state that very often reveals an authoritarian and non-democratic vocation will be stronger in their conviction and that perhaps in October or November (in short, when you let us know) they will submerge you no during the referendum.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u374	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-673.ana.u375	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, August 3, at 9.30 a.m. with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.19 a.m.
