ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to point out that audio is very bad. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Unfortunately, we've been having problems all week. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2232, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Grassi and others; Argentine and others; Miotto and others; Vargiu and others; Binetti and others; Rondini and others, and 292. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the general debate was over and the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government took place and the examination of the articles of draft law No 2232, in the text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u11	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, Madam Representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to this draft law, I believe that the Commission has worked pragmatically. Following the hearing of the social partners and the debate in the Commission, the rapporteur made a good summary of the will expressed, seeking a maximum common denominator between the parties and inserting correctives to the measure compared to what came from the House, which certainly clarify and implement the measure itself. Italy of values, which of legality and justice has made a mantra, believes that this provision is a further step, albeit timid, towards social justice. It could certainly be improved, for example through the adoption of certain amendments, including that of Senator Bignami, which concerned the 8 per thousand to be allocated to the fund that is set up by this measure. In all cases, I believe that what we have not been able to incorporate today can still be taken into consideration by the Government, perhaps in the next law of stability. Today the 8 per thousand is dedicated to types of interventions such as hunger in the world, natural disasters, the conservation of cultural goods and school building and since August 2015, with the resolution of the Council of Ministers, has been previewed the allocation of a share to the National Fund for the policies and the services of asylum of the Ministry of the Interior, in order to strengthen, in this phase of emergency, the operation of the reception centers. Then another chapter has been added. I hope that in future part of this 8 per thousand will be devoted to welfare funds, such as the one for serious disability or the one for victims of intentional violence. So, ultimately, we believe that this measure is a further step towards supporting disability, which complements the many things that have been done in this regard. This measure is to be added; it was an additional piece that had to be completed. We are therefore in favour of the decisions taken and the summary that we have found in the Committee on Employment and Social Security. We will therefore certainly vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u14	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, Senators, I shall vote 'no' in the referendum on your constitutional 'cracker'. I was already convinced and my speech to the proceedings is more than clear. If, however, I had to make a counter-example, I would be speaking precisely of the draft law that we are examining today: the second passage in this House has improved it and has changed its substance, even if it is a little bit. First of all, I must distinguish the merit of the principles and the merit of the funds. After today's newspaper statements, where it seems that Minister Padoan is going to ask for another help from Europe, I think it is better to catch this 90 million. On the merits of the principles, however, I always thought that it would be enough to put 100 million more into the National Fund for Non-self-sufficiency and to hold a State-Regions meeting to impose the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified in 2009 and, consequently, also the implementation of the Act No 104 of 1992 that already exists. Returning to the merit of principles. I am partially satisfied with the fact that the text has basically changed, especially in the three parts that I find a bit of a protagonist. Article 1, the purpose of which is the care and protection of persons with disabilities. For this purpose, we have included in the best interests of people with serious disabilities. This is very important because one of the concerns was precisely that. Seeing in paragraph 3 the word "trust" has come to many doubt: what is the priority interest? Having specified it in paragraph 2, we say that it can reassure a little about the objectives. Having modified Articles 1 and 6 by not giving exclusivity to the trust, but by opening up to other types of investment, I think it's a good thing. The other and most worrying point for parents was the amendment to Article 4, which sets out the aims of this fund. The letter b) of paragraph 1 provides for the realization of interventions for temporary stay in an extra-family housing solution to cope with any emergency situations. Too many things were not specified and the need to ask, where possible, for respect for the will of the disabled person or even of his parents was not specified. It was not specified that it was not a priority of this fund and, therefore, to have inserted the engraving where necessary and, however, residually, it is important for these parents because, as you can see on Facebook, it was called by them the "comma of deportation". This change therefore makes them all happy and, indeed, they tell me to thank you for it. The other point on which unfortunately we have not had so much courage and on which we have been reduced only to the acceptance of an agenda, concerns the modification, or at least the accent in a part of this bill, to the discourse of control and surveillance activity. Since you listen to the news, you know that it is important to know that the state is there and at least engages in supervision, although there are still, unfortunately, doubts. The 8 per thousand mentioned by Senator Bencini must not become a maximum common divider, but a minimum common multiple. Socialism requires a minimum common multiple, because no one should be left behind. This deinstitutionalisation is a little bit of a advice: there is no kind of forced force and I fear that an expression that encourages change has not been used. The criteria for allocating the Fund are also contained in a delegation and unfortunately the delegations are on the agenda. I really hope in the good will of the Regions and I would have hoped for a stronger action by the Government, although the ISTAT report indicated that the relationship between total expenditure for serious disabled people supported in Calabria and that supported in Trentino-Alto Adige is one to thirty-six. I therefore wonder how it is possible that the State, after having known such a figure, has solved the problem so superficially: I repeat, the per capita expenditure in Trentino is 36 times that in Calabria. It is clear that the amount of expenditure is not always - at least not always - a fair criterion to represent the situation of disabled people, because for example the disabled person who stays in his own home, with home care, will cost the State less. However, I do not think that in Calabria they have the luxury of living this situation: in Calabria they have practically nothing. Wearing the caregiver pin, which testifies to the hope that in this Chamber it will also be legal for them and therefore to complete a process that with the approval of today's bill is only partially implemented, I will vote on the draft law under consideration, aware that in the minority no political representation can do the miracle I expected; what I have done, I think already so, but I am sure that the Government could and should give us more. I have certainly asked for the miracle of being able to die in peace, but I do not believe that this bill will succeed in achieving this. What did the government do? He behaved as he usually does: he approved a watered down bill, ready to be communicated with a tweet, falsified in the contents and donated for who knows what solution. In fact, it does not bring much home: it brings home only principles, which for 90% were already expressed by the United Nations Convention and by Law No 104 of 1992. We hope that this bill will not be used in a squalid electoral campaign, in which unfortunately we parents of disabled people are often victims and are exploited, as usual. However, I shall vote in favour of this draft law. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-Doing Groups! and Senators Baptist and Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u17	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, it is difficult to speak after Senator Bignami, for the great value of her testimony, as well as her commitment. We members of the Group of Conservatives and Reformists are among those who believed that the adoption of a measure to alleviate the suffering and difficulties of many families and their motivated anxiety about the fate of their relatives with disabilities was no longer procrastinable. Here today we are talking about about about 38,000 people who will be the direct beneficiaries of the bill, to which we must add the 89,000 who live instead with elderly parents who are over sixty-four years old: in total, therefore, we refer to about 127,000 people. Mr President, we all think that legislative intervention was necessary, but there are those who think that it is enough to create a regulatory framework and then to drain resources from the funds created ad hoc - albeit minimal - and that this is enough to close the game. On the other hand, I am convinced that it is no longer enough to do this, when we speak and when we speak on issues of great social importance, such as the one we are discussing. The institutions, and therefore the policy, have the duty to change step, to make a further effort to draw with foresight the scenarios of tomorrow, where we can already clearly see two major issues: on the one hand the increasing need for an efficient welfare and the increasingly scarce resources available, on the other. There is still little discussion in Italy - much more outside the national borders - about social impact investing and, in this regard, I thank the public service of RAI that, with the episode of the broadcast last Sunday ...Report has opened to the Italians a window on the new economy to which we must devote ourselves, financially supported precisely by investments that must foresee and contemplate the assessment of social impact. In fact, it has been established since 2013 in London, under the chairmanship of Cameron of the G8, a task force for social impact investing, available to the governments of the G8, with the aim of generating positive results that - perhaps - would not otherwise take place, through investments for social entrepreneurship initiatives aimed at solving a social problem or even environmental. This is nothing new for us. We, who are one of the world's third-sector patriots, know what we are talking about. In fact, this is one of the most critical nodes of the Italian welfare system: I am referring to the absence of a national strategy, for example, for the long term care, first mentioned by Senator Bignami, with the consequence that Italy is a taillight among the European countries in access to home and residential services, in particular for the elderly who are not self-sufficient and, more generally, for people with disabilities. Today's overall picture of the country presents an extreme fragmentation and disorganization of service names, evaluation criteria, public contribution models and interventions of the municipalities. The need for common rules for the development of the local network of services cannot be seriously undermined by action which seeks to rationalise at national level, or by maintaining and deepening territorial differences, not only between the Mezzogiorno and the Centre-Nord, but also at interregional and intra-regional levels, sometimes from the Municipality to the Municipality. In our opinion, we must outline a path of organization and management of integrated social and health assistance to be proposed in some territorial realities, for example as an experiment of a new way of providing the essential benefits payable by the citizen in need, taking into account and coordinating the different souls of welfare - health, social, third sector and volunteering - currently divided and diversified in the system of governance, in the sources of funding and in the different organizational groups. This was well remembered by Senator Sacconi, President of the Labour Commission, Social Security, in his speech yesterday and I hope that the capacity of Undersecretary Biondelli will allow her to continue on the path not only of the "after us" but also of that assistance to which we all point, fruit of an ancient culture of which the country is bearer, but which must find a modern way, in that social and health integration that must be articulated on the three levels (institutional, financial and management). It is therefore necessary to separate the fragmentation of investments, identifying the district/area as a place for the development of integration strategies and instruments, with the pooling of the various institutional, public and private actors. The path to participatory funding is the search for optimal solutions to ensure the effective integration between health-relevant social benefits, social-relevant health benefits and high health-related social-health benefits provided to chronic patients, elderly persons who are not self-sufficient and persons with disabilities, with a possible extension to children with psychiatric disorders and psychiatric patients, for example. At a later stage, the area of intervention could be extended to further areas. Social impact bonds are, in my opinion, the most suitable financial instrument for improving the provision of public services with a strong social impact. This is an evolution of finance that we must push, with all the strength we have, to have finance to support social interventions, which are not only assistance, but also a great investment in human capital and the future. I also think with great hope of the development of the benefit societies that our Government wanted to introduce, among the first in Europe, by borrowing them from the American model: a very effective instrument that we must know how to use. I come back to the strict merit of this law, which, as some colleagues have already mentioned before me, is an instrument for the implementation of Article 19 of the UN Convention for the recognition of the right of persons with disabilities to self-determination and to choose freely where and with whom to live. It is a text that can certainly be improved and covers a large audience in absolute terms (I mentioned it before), but it is very limited compared to the wider topic of disability. In fact, for obvious reasons of coverage - I assume - the measure focuses exclusively on serious disabled people, whose condition is not determined by natural ageing. Although much still had to and must be done, this law, in the text that we are voting on today, has the merit of introducing a real and perhaps only novelty: the discipline of the trust institution for welfare purposes. Let us think, especially of minors, for whom parents often cannot imagine a dignified future. The trust is a little known and poorly applied institution because of the lack of national legislation that solves problems of compatibility with our legal system; instead, from now on it will represent a new possibility for those who want to choose how and by whom will be managed the future of their loved one, providing them with a tranquility and a serenity that no other Italian legal institution allows. I shall conclude, Mr President, by talking about the resources put in place, because there is no good law without adequate resources. This is a starting point, but we have all recognised that it is not enough. My Group, along with Senator Bignami, with whom we have all agreed, had tabled a proposal to feed the Fund with the possibility for citizens to allocate eight per thousand to the Fund, in the course of the income report, and to report annually to Parliament on the progress of the harvest and, above all, on the use of it. I'm glad Senator Candiani shared his spirit, signing it with us. Mr President, we Conservatives and Reformists, by voting in favour of this draft law, by promising the utmost attention also to all the implementing decrees that will really establish the success or not of the objectives of protection, we invite, however, to do more and to throw us, together with those families, the heart beyond the obstacle. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senators Bignami, Centinario and Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u20	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, as a League we are satisfied and also a little surprised because, perhaps for the first time in this short parliamentary term, we are dealing with a matter with the seriousness of the matter. The majority-opposition opposition has been put aside a bit, as it is right that it is, and although the positions do not fully converge, the objectives have been shared; I also feel that no speculation has been made on this matter, fortunately we say, otherwise we would have put the party interests and the politics of our home ahead of the needs of the perhaps weaker sector of our society. Good law or bad law? The cases are endless, the disabilities are the most varied, depending on the sectors and the degree of autonomy of these people, so to make sure that the law in the broad sense gives capillaries answers to every single case is probably also impossible. Perhaps it could be improved, but it is as if the old scales used once and had two plates: they put good things on one plate and bad things on the other, and if all in all good things prevailed over the less good, the old essays basically expressed a positive judgment. We wanted to try to recover - the case history is endless - the greater degree of autonomy of these disabled people in order to allow them to find something similar to the family environment or an environment parallel to the family that allows them to overcome the most drastic period, that is the passing of the parents, finding a new life in a context in which, all in all, they recognize a new family. At the same time, we were trying to give the same families a little breath. At a time when the community and institutions take care, even for a few hours a day, of these serious disabled people, the family finds a little 'breath. The families of these serious disabled people live on a mission: they live on the basis of these children who have total need of the assistance of their parents. These families also experience another anguish: who will take charge of this child, who then grows up and becomes an adult? Who will take charge when we are no longer able to do so or when we are lacking? In this respect, I would like to thank the rapporteur, who, in the course of the Commission's work, has accepted all the requests, ideas and everything that has been put on the ground and has been able to sum up this measure. One of the hardest discussions perhaps arises when we talk about something that has been defined by an apparently ugly term that is used in high finance and economy, the trust. It is a tied fund, which must be interpreted in a unique way: parents would like to leave everything that is soiled, but they would like to direct their substances, many or few that are, that is, their heritage, to the care and care of the child and they would like to find a legal form that allows to bind the patrimony to the benefit of the child. It is not said - here perhaps the small differences were born - that those who do not have parents with a heritage should be abandoned. Let's clear the field from this idea, because maybe someone in this sense misread it. We too would have wanted to give answers to all those who need them. The next problem arises from terminology: serious disabilities. There is no doubt that we would have wanted to give answers to all disabled people, but if we had widened the scope of the rule, which wants to protect families who can do nothing but devote themselves 24 hours a day to the care of these disabled people, perhaps we would have risked frustrating everything. Do we have resources to respond to all degrees of disability? However, for the degrees of minor disability, territorial services must continue to function. Therefore, there will be a double track: on the one hand those who have disabilities such that they can be managed with domestic or collective services by a system that already works (the disabled are not totally abandoned today); on the other hand the degrees of serious disability, which will have to find answers of other nature. It seems to us, all in all, that a suitable solution has also been found, and we appreciate that no one has wanted to read all the legislation with bad faith. We were certainly very pleased to hear that Mrs Bignami, who has been very critical and who knows much better than many of us the matter, finally gave an overall judgment so that, between not having this law and having this law as it has been packaged, it is preferable that this law eventually enters into our order. Therefore, I conclude by saying that even as a League we would have liked to have a broader law that could have given answers to a major audience. However, for the reasons we have just described, and not wanting to speculate on this matter at all (because it is not right to speculate on the worst misfortunes of the families of this country), we announce the support of the Group of the North League for this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u23	DAVICO (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the legislative measure we are about to vote on, known by the public as the 'after us', is certainly characterized - as has been widely demonstrated by the improved debate in the Commission and then here in this House - by an interest and cross-cutting sharing that extend and embrace practically all the political forces present in this House. The aim of the work is to achieve what is defined as the right to solidarity, i.e. in this case to help and support people with serious disabilities who remain without family support. Once it is enacted, this measure will increase the protection and consolidation of the rights of persons with disabilities, in implementation of the principles set out in Articles 2, 3, 30, 32 and 38 of the Constitution, 24 and 26 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and 3 and 19 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Above all, the function of that Republic referred to in Article 3 of our Constitution is fulfilled, which has the task of removing those obstacles that prevent the full development of the human person. From a recent ISTAT survey carried out on this subject, around 3,200,000 people with disabilities live in our country, and of these about 600,000 in the age group from zero to sixty-four have a serious disability certified under Law 104 of 1992, which regulates assistance, social integration and the rights of disabled people. Of these women and of these men and boys, 260,000 live in the family with their parents or brothers who for these fellow citizens are, throughout their lives, the main source of support and assistance. It is in fact the family that guarantees, in the generality of the cases, the necessary assistance to the person with disabilities, and often does so at the cost of enormous sacrifices, also consequence of the fact that in many cases the social services provided by the "public", by our welfare, are not suitable, indeed, are strongly insufficient to satisfy the particular needs of those suffering from serious disabilities. Added to this is the state of motivated anguish and deep apprehension of the families of the disabled who are not self-sufficient, who live in the constant dilemma of the future that awaits their companion when one day they will no longer be there to assist them. And there are not few cases, even as a result of the period of economic crisis that we have been through in the last decade, in which the economic substances of the family decrease, especially because of the cost of care and are no longer sufficient to ensure the necessary assistance to their loved ones. The problem is therefore tangible and we intend, where possible, to try to give back a smile and a pinch of more tranquility to thousands of these families. On the subject of disability unfortunately Italy starts from a strong delay, from a chronic lack of attention to a reform of the welfare that takes into account the current social structure, the needs of care and well-being, very different from a few decades ago and from area to area of our country. The Italian welfare model, focused on the delegation to families, is in deep crisis now that social and demographic changes have upset the care relationships that linked, in a virtuous circuit of mutual assistance, grandparents, children and grandchildren. The draft law that we are preparing to vote on, the fruit of years of gestation, is surely reduced, especially in its resources. The contribution that the State makes available for this law is 90 million euros for 2016, 38.3 million euros for 2017 and 56.1 million euros for 2018. However, I believe that the measure in question has very positive aspects within it that finally give answers - in large part - to the questions that have always been asked by the families concerned about the problem: to avoid the institutionalization of disabled people when they remain alone due to the lack of parents, to increase their protection through tax systems facilitated for disability, to give life to paths for the independence of individuals with serious disabilities, to create real opportunities and opportunities for employment, family homes, communities, cohabitations of disabled people in apartments dedicated to them, to avoid cases of segregation, exclusion and inequality. Another key objective is to set up the Fund for the assistance of persons with serious disabilities without family support, as well as to raise the limit of IRPEF deductions and to provide tax relief for trusts. Perhaps it is not yet the best that could be done, considering that the municipalities spend approximately EUR 7 billion on disability in general and about EUR 1.5 billion on disabled people we are talking about in the measure. Certainly the figures announced at the beginning of the measure were much more ambitious, but in fact they narrowed considerably. Too bad. It is a partially lost occasion that could be used better by the majority and the government. The measure is, without doubt, a sign of hope for the thousands of families affected by the problem, which translates into concrete attention for all those who daily confront and experience disability and who must, without further delay, feel the legislator close and share in their needs, with concrete, practical and common sense measures. Perhaps more could be done: it is a phrase made. Perhaps we need to do more with more courage, but this is probably what we are voting on today, with the improvement made in the Senate, is the best possible solution, despite everything. I hope, however, that it will not remain an isolated measure: it is a beginning, yes only the beginning of a journey. Surely the problem of disability and that of the elderly even not self-sufficient and of all the non-sufficiencies present in Western societies and in our country will expand more and more over the years, since the life expectancy has increased. There will of course be more and more problems on the agenda. This text is therefore certainly an important starting point. Other funds will have to be found, even more than they have been identified so far, which will serve to ensure a better quality of life not only for those directly concerned, but also for their families engaged daily in very heavy life trials. Therefore, in the light of these considerations, and in respect of the different sensibilities present within the Group, I announce the favorable vote of the Group Grandi Autonomie e Libertà.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u26	Mr Barani (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, we are about to vote on a measure which is very dear to me, which follows on from a battle that I have waged in the last parliamentary term in the Social Affairs Committee of the House of Deputies. The draft law on my initiative contained in the title the diction "After us" and what we are going to vote today will be called in this way even if we have no longer included it. In the last parliamentary term the measure did not see the light because the then Monti government had not given the financial cover. This today makes me think even more that it had to be an ambitious, albeit difficult, goal. In this regard, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Commission all because we have no demise. This, too, is the task of a Member of Parliament: never belittle, never abandon your beliefs, which must be pursued with ever greater determination. In fact, I retabled the bill as soon as I crossed the Senate entrance, March 25, 2013. While some senators presented plans of law of justice, I humbly retabled bill no. 292. You can go and compare, the title remained the same; in mine there was the embossed addition "After us". What we are about to vote on today is an important starting point, because it fills a legislative vacuum, which a civilised country should never have. I also consider this a social reform, and since our Group was born for reforms, we move on our track: this is our path. This is the first time that this type of intervention has been made by 17 legislators to this side, especially in a country that has the ambition to provide its citizens with all the health services, but also many social services. The numbers are eloquent, we must tell you, dear colleagues: in Italy there are 260,000 people with serious disabilities living with one or both parents, and among them about a third are elderly parents. 64 percent of children with severe disabilities (about 170,000) will survive parents and brothers. Here is the title "After us" after, that is, that parents and brothers will no longer be there. Here is the objective of this bill, which, as has already been said by several colleagues, respects the UN directive on the rights of persons with disabilities, which became enforceable in our country with a law of 2009; the objective of bringing, as far as possible, everyone to have an independent life. The new text approved in the House with the absorption of bipartisan drafts of law - of the Democratic Party, of People's Area, of Italian Left - enriched my proposal, leaving firm, however, the principles, the guiding thread: among all, the establishment of a Fund for the assistance of persons with serious disabilities without family support. The text provides for measures of care, care and protection for persons with serious disabilities, without family support or because their parents have failed or because they are no longer able to support the responsibilities of their care. A Fund for the assistance of persons with serious disabilities without family support is established, in particular to activate programmes aimed at promoting deinstitutionalisation, support for homelessness in residences or apartment groups that reproduce the housing and relational conditions of the family home, the home hearth, which also take into account the best opportunities offered by the new technologies. Yes, science must also take care of them and new scientific discoveries must also be their prerogative, in order to prevent the isolation of people with disabilities. Tax facilities are provided for trusts, which we take from the institution of the Anglo-Saxon legal system, which means trust, trust, or the legal instrument for the management of assets established in favour of persons with serious disabilities and families with serious disabled relatives. Finally a trust not to evade taxes but for a noble end. The house, for example, is one of the biggest concerns of many of these families: leaving their families with severe disabilities in comfortable environments will be possible today thanks to this law. You can choose family houses or apartment groups that reproduce family housing conditions for those who are not self-sufficient will find themselves without any family member who will take care of them. Unless they are chosen on purpose, then, you will be able to go beyond the nosocomi or assisted health residences and you will go towards civilization. Already in the last parliamentary term, as I said at the beginning, the one on the next of us was a battle, as we like to call it in the political sphere, bipartisan. In fact, I was not the only author of the bill that I presented, but the leader of the Democratic Party, Livia Turco, was also involved, which I would like to remember because I wrote with her the text that I then presented at the beginning of the legislature; she too had very much at heart this bill proposal. In that legislature they wanted, instead, to approve the Severino law and the Fornero reform, because disabled people, in that legislature, did not give a damn. I am aware that the measure is still perfect and that not everything has been done, but until now, as I have already said, none of the previous legislation has done what we are doing and that is why we must be proud of it. I am equally aware that from today, with this law, so many families, so many parents, so many children will live a quieter life, certainly marked by the care and assistance of their loved ones in difficulty, but without the incessant fear for tomorrow. It is a law of mercy and we go to approve it in the Jubilee of Mercy: this approach seems very relevant to me. The thought of "after us" will no longer bother so many parents, brothers or relatives, making them desperate, but will comfort them the fact that they will be able to choose from today. Fate is no longer one, but there is one tomorrow and tomorrow will certainly be guaranteed. You see, ladies and gentlemen, it is on days like this that politics decides to give space to its best facet. And, in fact, it is the noble politics that prevails and only anti-political movements are unmarked; and here is the difference, because in the face of the needs, the needs and the rights of the citizens there is no political color. Together we find solutions that make this country better, as happened a few days ago for civil unions and as will happen today on the "after us" (sorry, I keep calling it that). It is a huge satisfaction, happy, to approve this bill also with my vote and with that of the AL-A Group, a Group born precisely on reforms (and this we consider as a further part of our goal): we are a Group born for reforms, this is a social reform on disability and therefore we are proud to contribute to its approval. This House, therefore, will help to give a necessary instrument to so many Italian citizens and that is why I declare the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in favour. [[Applause from the AL-A Group (MpA).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u29	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall make a very brief but necessary speech, given the sensitive and important issue of this measure. In general discussion, and today in an explanation of vote, we have already touched on and described all the issues that this measure contains and its importance has been highlighted. I would therefore like to stress the positive opinion of our Group. I'm just gonna point it out. There are still other aspects that will need to be taken into account in order to complete the path of social integration and of helping disabled people, families and disabled people themselves, for example, in the area of accessible tourism. The philosophy underlying this bill is what has already moved the regions, for more than fifteen years, to carry out a series of measures. Here I would like briefly to refer to the other major topical issue, the constitutional reform. Precisely thanks to the 2001 reform of Title V, which has devolved to the Regions the social and socio-sanitary matter in particular, in our country most of the measures provided for by this bill are already in place: housing communities, apartment groups, educational and day care centers, relief projects, home homes, agricultural centers for disabled people; all are already well present in our country. So my consideration is: we are careful, especially now, in times of constitutional reforms, to say that centralizing is better and that it will be an advantage for the country. In this case, in fact, the reform of 2001 showed that with decentralization there was the possibility to grow welfare in our country and to make it reach, in certain regions of Italy, the welfare levels of Northern Europe. So my hope is that everything that has been done by the Regions will be considered as the basis for continuing to build a path of integration on disability, which is certainly at the heart of all political forces. With this in mind, I am voting in favour of the Group for the Independents-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Silvestro. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u30	We greet a representation of students of the project of the innovative MIUR didactics for the high schools "A School of OpenCohesion" who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u33	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the debate on this draft law is characterized, as always, by a disease that we are now used to seeing in these parliamentary classrooms, that of 'announcements'. To read the title and to listen to some reports and some speeches we have all been led to think that it was a framework law on disability, whose main objective was to refinance the Social Fund and the Fund for non-self-sufficiency, just that Fund that in recent years the "Governi Tremonti, Sacconi and Monti" have practically dried up, while your stability laws did not help to improve the situation. Vicious cuts have fallen in recent years and the effects can be seen deeply, because the municipalities have been forced to cut more than 30% of social services and in the southern regions there is a risk of 70% of cuts. We could have recovered from these cuts by entering immediate resources. Instead, in the "announcements" characterizing this majority, the bill addresses only a small piece of the problem. The measure was created to ensure care and protection for people with serious disabilities who were left without parents. They are excluded, as has been pointed out in many speeches, partners, brothers, sisters and children as family members, whom we know perform caregiver functions, and yet are without recognition of their status in Italy. Not only is the lack of both parents considered, but also the inability or rather the difficulty of providing adequate parental support, forgetting that the role of parents is mainly made of emotional, psychological, support and vigilance and is not only of an economic type, which is also very important. It is in fact stated that the responsibility for the care of a person with serious disabilities lies with the parents and not with the public service; this is the point that is highlighted by this bill. The culture of the role of the public is put in a corner, in order to open up to a privatization of the welfare that breaks with the principle of subsidiarity provided for in our Constitution. It is not by chance that the essential levels of social benefits are defined, but only within the limits of the resources available. If everything is linked to economic sustainability and not to sustainability between supply and demand, which provides for the viability of a right, we go in the direction of favouring structures rather than individual home projects. In the individualized project of life, people's needs are different and cannot match standards. This hypothesis would be possible if we talked about performance within structures where the routes are standardized and not built according to the person, his will, but according to the type or gravity. Interventions are planned for temporary stay in extra-family housing solutions to deal with emergency situations (and thanks to an amendment approved yesterday, it cannot be done without the involvement of the disabled person's will). Emergency situations in a disabled family may be various and frequent (loss of work, illness of a spouse, broken leg, hospitalization or even a more beautiful situation, such as a new pregnancy and the arrival of a newborn) and social services should be able to provide hours of care and resources to continue home care. However, this is not guaranteed. The funds are bound by the availability of the budget, are not structural and depend on the sensitivity of the managing director. The only viable alternative will therefore be the inclusion of the person with disabilities in an extra-family structure, almost like a bulky thing, because the structure, given the emergency, will be the first available and not the most suitable. It would have been important to create real support for families and people with disabilities in emergency conditions, it would have been more appropriate to include the obligation to try first and foremost to stay at home in order to prevent institutionalisation. Even if it is not explicitly stated, this bill has as its objective to finance the structures, since in no part of this provision there is talk of home care. And this is one of the greatest demands families make. The right to "after us" must be guaranteed for everyone. And the trust isn't for everyone. When reference is made to assets or assets transferred to insurance, banks or foundations through the use of trusts, disabled people living in low-income households are excluded. There is, then, a disproportion between what is allocated to programmes for all disabled people without family support and those with economic potential that allows them to enter into a trust, which is precisely a financial-based agreement, through which families leave their assets to foundations, institutions and private individuals who will manage their lives. It is clear that trust is not a solution for everyone and how it increases the social scissors between the rich and the poor by not fully considering the self-determination of the disabled. There are so many other considerations that I would like to make. Therefore, Mr President, I would ask you to attach the full text so that it remains in the documents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). This proposal for a law has a guaranteed fund, that of the 90 million every year that everyone has talked about, but it does not refer to a subject at all; to know how much resources we allocate to local authorities, to reintegrate cuts and to allow public social services to provide assistance to the territories. The disabled, as you have mentioned in many, are about three million in Italy and the re-centralization of functions and competences to the State involves a strong impoverishment of the territories, the public welfare of the territories, precisely those local authorities and those public social health services that denounce for years the lack of resources and the impossibility to guarantee real assistance. The issue should therefore have been how to increase public resources in support of public welfare. This, too, is a theme that you have postponed. [[Applause from Senators Bulgarelli and Paglini]] because this is the political choice of this Government and this majority. That is why the Italian Left vote will be one abstention vote. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and the Senators Bulgarelli and Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u36	PAGE (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this bill responds to the real needs perceived in our society. It is estimated that 15% of families, first and most basic Italian welfare institutions, are affected by cases of disability. For the serious disabled, life with parents may be the most effective and the most comprehensive of solutions to care needs, but it is necessary to give concrete support to families in order not to determine situations of disadvantage for the members. In addition, disabled parents also age. One of the problems that makes it difficult, and sometimes even crippling, the dialogue between families on the one hand and the services of the State on the other is the uncertainty of the "after": "after" the birth of a disabled child, "after" the school, "after" the formation, "after" the death of parents. The fact that you cannot have reasonable security about the various existential stages your child will have to face, often determines in parents mistrust, detachment and sometimes antagonistic relationship with services. All this creates tension and does not produce changes, but closures, regressions and a forced search for individual solutions, which often turn out to be inadequate, expensive and sometimes completely negative. Many of the associations heard, during the hearings held in the Commission, strongly reiterated the concept that the great challenge is not only to deal with everyday emergencies, but to guarantee every disabled person the right to a decent life, regardless of the support of family members. The purpose of the measure before us is to move from a merely welfare logic to the guarantee of inalienable individual rights. In fact, the constant references to our Constitution, to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, especially to the UN Convention, in its very precise and detailed structure, help us to focus on the change of pace that this law makes necessary and inevitable. They allow us to understand why we cannot make a transition to mere social inclusion, without putting into question what is a real integration. It is a just and necessary law, finally arrived after years of cuts in social services, social policies, services to families, especially those in great difficulty, such as those with serious disabled children. The work carried out in the Commission has been highly constructive: majority and opposition have been constantly confronted, not to slow down its work, also considering the large number of amendments tabled, but to legislate, in order to adapt the individual life project, in the direction of deinstitutionalisation, in line with the principles of the UN Convention. One of the main merits of this law is that it has relaunched a new alliance between the State and the family, a new welfare, thanks to an entirely innovative synergy between the public and the private: public fund, trusts, non-profit foundations, horizontal and vertical subsidiarity that dialogue with each other. The State and the Regions that approach everyone, rich and less rich, with a reduced institutionalization and more autonomy of choice between the different forms of family life. This approach aims to create a synergy that not only enhances existing resources, made available by the State and the family, but multiplies them and reinvests them, with only one specific objective: to ensure better living conditions for disabled children and those in similar conditions. This measure, in fact, is also inspired by that horizontal solidarity that creates virtuous relationships between the families of disabled people, imagining a subtle bond of collaboration and integration between them. This approach has made it possible to put people and not categories at the centre of attention: the debate - I would like to reiterate - has always focused on the welfare of the individual, on the plurality of the individual's problems, on the respect of their rights, which until now had not been guaranteed. The heart of the measure is the establishment of a Fund for the assistance of persons with serious disabilities and persons with disabilities without family support, which can be accessed with certain requirements. These criteria will then be identified by a decree of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which will be issued six months after the entry into force of the law. The draft law provides for the mediation of the regions, to which the appropriations provided for in the financial maneuver will go in the first instance. The resources that the State transmits to the Regions must be devoted to flexible, constantly evolving and highly personalized projects. The personalisation of projects includes, in addition to adequate social assistance, a technologically sophisticated approach, in the light of the new possibilities that open up to facilitate new possible levels of autonomy. The regions, in fact, will have to define the criteria for the provision of the financing, the verification of the implementation of the activities carried out and the hypotheses of withdrawal of the financing. The resources of the fund, but also the help of regions, local authorities and third sector or private bodies, will be used to implement innovative residential programmes and interventions aimed at the creation of housing, such as family homes for disabled people, with the aim of developing programmes to achieve the highest possible level of autonomy for disabled people without assistance. We must overcome the anonymous delivery of homogeneous services, the same for all, in order to address the needs of disabled people who, on the other hand, are profoundly different from each other. Every person must remain himself, with his lifestyle, similar to what he had in his family, guaranteed by a continuity of care and attention on the social level, as well as welfare. For this reason, it is necessary to activate home support programs, preventing the isolation of disabled people and using the opportunities offered by new technologies. In addition, the measure in question pays particular attention to the possibility of residential activities aimed at creating family housing structures and, for this reason, may include purchase, rental, renovation and even equipment charges. In the tax return it will be possible to deduct the costs incurred for insurance policies aimed at protecting the disabled, with the increase from 530 euros to 750 euros of the deductibility of insurance premiums paid for the risk of death. It is also expected that transfers of assets and rights due to death, donation or free of charge and the establishment of destination constraints for the benefit of trusts will be exempt from inheritance and donation tax, provided that the trust pursues the care and assistance of the disabled person as an exclusive purpose. Mr President, some have argued that the measures contained in this measure are not sufficient and that more needs to be done. Certainly the bill, like any other, is perfectible. For this reason, the right proposals for enlargement of the audience, the recognition of new rights to families and the increased allocation of resources must represent the guidelines to be followed for future interventions in this area. For example, a measure has been imagined whereby parental care for severely disabled children is taken into account, in terms of duration, as long as it takes to retire, in view of the fact that continued care for severely disabled persons is actually used for families. The concrete effects that this measure will be able to produce in the near future will have to be assessed constantly and carefully in terms of effectiveness and efficiency, in order to correct any inappropriate provisions, to encourage the most positive practices and introduce new mechanisms for support for people with disabilities. I would like to publicly thank the rapporteur, Senator Parente, who has never lowered her guard, nor slowed her attention to the need to make a good law early and well, as she often used to say during the debate (which, in our opinion, has been fully implemented). Soon and well it means giving concrete answers to urgent needs, emergency situations and voices of suffering. What we are going to vote for is, therefore, a bill that takes care of the difficulties of disabled people and their families; a measure that, after too many years of cuts and disinterest, intervenes positively with a systematic operation of welfare planning and guarantee of rights. For these reasons, I would like to announce the positive vote of the People's Area Group. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u39	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, this is the first time since the beginning of the parliamentary term that I have been confronted with a bill that has been denounced to the President of the National Anti-corruption Authority, Raffaele Cantone. This body has been involved in the Coordination of Health and Assistance (CSA) among the basic movements, which has been operating continuously since 1970 in favour of the rights of persons who cannot defend themselves. The CSA and the Social Promotion Foundation ONLUS had pointed out in good time with alarm and keen concern the unlawful and misleading nature of this bill. So much so that they had also sent an open letter entitled "Gravissima proposal of law on "after us": ignored the laws in force for people with severe and limited disabilities or no autonomy and concrete risk of clientele initiatives. Then we hear statements like yesterday's by the rapporteur: The beauty of lawmaking when people's needs are intercepted. This is striking with what has been denounced, especially if horizontal subsidiarity and fruitful cooperation between the public and the private are mentioned. This act, yet another in this legislature, we think is clearly addressed to satisfy clientele and private appetites. The bill on "after us" is therefore not born in the best way. The rapporteur has made improvements to the Senate, but without affecting the substance. Already in the title we read: Provisions on care for persons with serious disabilities, without family support Noble intention, but that already creates a disparity between serious and non-disabled people; and you insisted on the unlikely to add the word "grave" in an area where there should be absolutely no discrimination. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is clear that the management of the life of disabled people is increasingly delegated to the private sector, while the State is depowered, assuming a role of appearance: this is a reversal of roles unacceptable to us. Within the draft law there is talk of establishing a trust, a legal figure of another order that is projected into the Italian system, as if it were possible to make a mere copy-paste from one order to another, without considering the diversity and specificity of each nation. Each country has its own rules, traditions and different levels of assistance. In drawing up a bill which, at least in the intentions of the proposers, should facilitate and improve the conditions of the disabled, we would have liked to see less approximation. The legislative drafting and the rules of better regulation follow linear criteria and a design that we do not see here. The process has been long and tortuous and the rapporteur has tabled three amendments on the establishment of the trust, but without thinking that the Commissions that were to study and propose this instrument would have been others, such as the Finance, Constitutional Affairs and Justice Commissions, creating a very serious regulatory vacuum, in our opinion. We note that in the first draft of the text to the House the trust, inserted at a later moment, had not been taken into consideration. But how has this instrument been introduced? This clearly happened thanks to an action of lobbying, that is after in the hearings to the Chamber has spoken the president of the Tuscan Foundation "After us", the regional councilor PD in Tuscany - I repeat, Tuscany [[Applause from the M5S Group]] - Enrico Sostegni (two banks are part of this foundation) and after the association "The trust in Italy" has pronounced itself through its vice president Maurizio Lupoi who, according to the newspaper, is the true extensor of the law. That is the only reason why we believe that this part of the bill should be repealed in its entirety. Inserting in a bill dedicated to disabled people a tool that should be regulated and regulated with infinite care and attention is yet another legislative force. The word trust translates into Italian with the term "trust," and it is precisely this that people in difficulty need: a form of trust and universal guarantee guaranteed by the State for all citizens and not only for those who can be guaranteed, as wealthy, privileges or favoritism of a kind. It has also been made clear in the hearing that people with serious disabilities, who live in disadvantaged economic conditions, will never be able to avail themselves of these instruments. Therefore, the new trust institution will provide tax exemptions, inheritances and donations to very few wealthy individuals. Even the House's Budget Committee in its technical report mentions that only 1,430 subjects - and I repeat only 1,430 people - will be able to benefit from this facility. Who, then, benefits this institution? Are the interests of the disabled person really being taken care of or are private intermediaries being encouraged? If the interest of the proposers had been genuinely that of protecting disabled people, it would have taken action by enhancing existing structures and generally improving levels of care, perhaps starting from school and providing adequate support to children, rather than cutting off support teachers. So the project is clear. We cut the public funds already scarce in themselves, we create situations of inefficiency and then comes the majority with the solution: we create a trust where we put in banking foundations and private subjects, ONLUS and cooperatives, which will most likely be tinged with a festive red. The expenditure incurred by households in the social and health system by the public to the private sector was reported by Censis and points out that, in 2014, there was an increase of 1 billion for private expenditure. This means only one thing: the project is the beautiful and good dismantling of the right to health and protection. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You're doing just fine. So, talking about a "after us" is in itself a demonstration of the failure of a welfare already poor in ideas and increasingly fragile in solutions. Many families find themselves in despair that, every year, causes suicides, annihilations of whole families, isolation and segregation of parents who, as elders, do not know what will happen to their child. Too weak were the guidelines of principle. In practice, there is a watered down indication of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We had proposed that the measure be consistent as in Article 19 of the UN Convention, in particular self-managed assistance, even in a self-determined form, through truly personalised projects and budgets intended directly for the people in question to be able to invest in freely chosen and trained personal assistants with the help of support administrators. It was all flunked. This bill, on the other hand, proposes a unique direction for people living with families today, forcing them in a future to live in structures managed by third parties. The "after us" becomes at this point a chapter of expenditure, a fund, yet another, with yet another decree of departure and the same regional interventions, more or less adapted depending on whether you live in the North or the South. You have to be lucky here because if you live in the South, you're a loser on the way. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We note that, while in Law No 2232 the passages dealing with the fund and the trust are very clear, the parties concerning the definition of the levels of benefits and the objectives of service for the services to be provided remain smoky or refer back to a decree to be issued within six months of the entry into force of this law. Let us bear in mind, with regard to the references to the limits of available resources, that there is the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 509 of 2000 which showed that, according to a principle desumable from the case law of the same Court, the right to health treatment necessary for the protection of health is guaranteed to each person as constitutionally conditional on the implementation that the legislator gives him through the balancing of the interests protected by that right with the other constitutionally protected interests. The balance must, inter alia, take into account the objective limits which the legislator meets in relation to the organisational and financial resources at its disposal. Therefore, on the basis of the above-mentioned judgment of the Constitutional Court, the Regions and ASL must, in any case, guarantee the irreducible core of the right to health established by the existing Leas, but in the text it is postponed and it is not even known until when. We do not know the definition of LEPs and, in the meantime, people with severe and limited disabilities or without autonomy will only receive benefits within the limits of available resources. And this is very serious. In Article 5, in essence, private insurance is fattened, creating gaps in public funds. In this article we talk about the possible deductibility on insurance policies concluded with the aim of protecting the people we care about who have disabilities. In these days a letter has been sent to the President of the Republic by family members of disabled people, in which the concept is reiterated that this bill does not meet the citizens and their needs, with the prayer not to sign it. Their alternative, shared by us, is to establish that the resources provided for in the Stability Act, amounting to EUR 90 million, are allocated as follows: EUR 60 million to increase the resources allocated to the National Health Service for 2016 and EUR 30 million to increase the resources of the Non-Sufficiencies Fund. With this appropriation, the National Health Service and local authorities will be able to ensure the best possible safety for our fellow citizens. Who knows if the legislator has noticed that in this country the bands of poverty are increasing and the scissor between the rich and the poor is increasingly marked! This wrong way of managing welfare is the real creator of such despair. The greatest pain for a person is not surviving the child. But perhaps there is one even more torn apart: to want in an unmistakable way that the disabled child can with the parent finish his own existence, a drama that weighs like a boulder in the collective consciousness. For all these reasons and for many others, the 5 Star Movement declares that it will vote decisively against this proposal unworthy of a bill. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u42	BERTACCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the draft law before us addresses a very important issue: providing support for people with serious disabilities without family support. This is an issue that has shown a cross-cutting sensitivity, as we have seen from the number and depth - if I may say so - of the speeches made in this House. Certainly the examination of the text finds a greater awareness in those who have direct knowledge of disability. But even those who did not have a personal experience, were certainly impressed by the images of the chronicle, which showed ill-treated and humiliated human beings in their dignity, in so-called nursing homes or so-called rehabilitation centers. I deeply believe that politics, even before the law, must give the most appropriate answers so that these criminal incidents never happen again. And the bill in question puts in place some right proposals to some of these questions, and it does so by placing at the center the disabled and his family; it does so when it speaks of the possibility of thinking about the future by building a path that contemplates not institutionalization, but the possibility of being able to build one's life as a tailor-made suit; it does by giving serenity to the parents during us and the certainty of having assured the best solution after us. There is, however, a lack of a new overall legislative framework on disability - it deals with only a few - which is an extremely important issue, covering a significant number of people. I remember - as other colleagues have already done - that in 2012-2013, in Italy, there are 3.2 million people with disabilities, indicated by ISTAT with the new definition of people with functional limitations. The subject matter is still largely regulated by Law No 104 of 1992 and it must be noted that there are still different terms in the definitions used in the overall legislative framework so far. The draft law before us, after the approval of the House, where it will have to come back for final approval, contains - in my opinion - some appreciable changes that we have introduced in the Senate's work committee. As regards the substance of the measure, we have expressed the further concern that some very weak persons who are worthy of protection may be excluded from the rules in question, even if they do not fall within the definition of a serious disability. The heartbreaking concern of parents is that, after them, no one can take care of their loved ones. Of course, this involves finding financial resources, which must be found within the state budget, if we are to tackle such an important problem. The reference to serious disabilities - referred to in the provisions to our examination - is precisely Article 3, paragraph 3, of the framework law, which defines as a serious disabled person who, due to individual or multiple impairment, has reduced personal autonomy, related to age, so as to make it necessary to have permanent, continuous and global assistance in the individual sphere or in that of relationship. However, there are disabilities, in seemingly minor form, that mark the lives not only of the people who live them, but also of their families and, often, of entire small communities. The need for integration into the framework law, which has more than twenty years of life, also stems from the continuous reports that forced us to read about people with limited freedom. It is essential to avoid people with disabilities being excluded or marginalised, with the real risk that for them after us it means institutionalization and therefore a clear deterioration of their quality of life. It is our precise duty to guarantee the right of every disabled person to live dignifiedly, even without his or her family of origin, without suffering, once outside his or her home, isolations or treatments that have little human. In this sense, the legislation we are about to adopt proposes a protection of the individual and his or her heritage, in order to achieve his or her freedom as fully as possible. The rules on trusts, destination constraints and special funds, as well as the greater deductibility for insurance policies, are absolutely appreciable, but they are not enough. They have been studied for families that still have a heritage to make available for the self-sufficiency of their loved one, but they do not concern those who have nothing. The latter must be provided with public intervention, which must be better articulated, and not only for the "after us" but also for the "during us." Unfortunately, resources have gradually decreased with the reduction of transfers to local authorities, which play a key role in managing and entrusting many services to disabled people. Among other things, the assistance organised by the municipalities has very different characteristics in the national territory. So something more must be done, first of all to give equal treatment, and therefore dignity, to all disabled people, wherever they reside. It is also necessary to address the problem of the essential levels of social benefits, in order to reconcile them with the essential levels of social and health care. We are now asking, therefore, for the further effort to look not only at today, but also at tomorrow. To give full implementation to the right to self-determine one's existence to people with disabilities - enshrined in the international framework - means above all to allow one to choose how and where to live throughout one's life, respecting our constitutional values. The time horizon must therefore be longer, because it must allow not only the implementation of the rules that we are going to approve today, but also the completion of the many initiatives put in place at the territorial level, which look to the future and also need public resources. Before I finish - I do it with a little emotion - I want to tell you the story of Diego. Diego's my age, he's an affectionate person, he believes in friendship, he trusts others. Diego opens your doors for a cigarette. He loves the sound of bells. Diego plays the piano without studying music. Diego loves the mountain and loves life. Diego until recently, thanks to an enlightened entrepreneur, worked; then, unfortunately, the company went into crisis and closed. Diego's parents did not give up and were able to get him included in a social cooperative as part of a targeted experimental work project. Every month Diego proudly took home his paycheck, felt important; now the project is gone and Diego has lost his job. Diego's parents, who are elderly, print an old paycheck every end of the month and put their savings in it. Diego, then, continues to be proud of himself. Diego is a friend of mine, he has an intellectual deficit, sometimes saliva comes out of his mouth and is a serious disabled person. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups, the Senators Cappelletti and De Pin, and the Undersecretary Biondelli.]] Diego will not be able to take advantage of the law on after us and like him many others. In this regard, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Parente, and Mr Biondelli, undersecretary, for accepting my agenda, which commits the Government to taking these very situations into account. I believe that the draft law that we will shortly approve is an important step forward, which welcomes the expectation of many families, but which must not stop the path of civilization and subsidiarity that we have taken today. Each of us must commit ourselves to ensuring that no one forgets the many Diegos and their families. For the reasons set out, with the awareness that we still owe much to the disabled and their families, I announce the favorable vote of the Senators of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, PD and AL-A (MpA), and undersecretary Biondelli. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u45	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Undersecretary, today is a very important and beautiful day. We can be proud of that. This provision is expected by many people and one of these is called Annarita, which I have always known. She's a brave mother who's told me so many times: Stefania, hurry, hurry. What will happen to my son Mario when I'm gone? Like Annarita, thousands of other mothers and fathers live this assault and for years they have appealed to institutions and politics, but only now, today, they finally receive a response from the Italian Parliament. The Democratic Party will vote with conviction and joy on this bill. Livia Turco started a journey many years ago and encouraged me, as a young municipal administrator, to take over and deal with the problem. A world has opened up to me, a world of silent and painful needs. Since then, the route has finally reached a great goal. I would therefore like to thank all my colleagues who have spoken for every political force, and who have given advice and suggestions, which have not fallen behind, and have closed themselves in an irreconcilable and Jacobine world. In particular, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Commission for their work, my colleagues in the Group, Senators Favero and D'Adda, who have spoken, as well as the other colleagues in the Democratic Party who have spoken in this House. In particular, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Annamaria Parente, who has worked hard to widen the debate and the answers, accepting proposals, amendments and agendas. Thanks to this precious work and the availability of the Undersecretary Biondelli, who shared this path with us, today we bring to the vote of the Senate a text visibly improved compared to the work, already positive, done in the House. But it is in the country, between the families, with the associations and the ONLUS, that this rule has taken shape for years, as the rapporteur has said well. The real protagonists of this provision are families, those specific families. Each of us lives with the fear of death, and each of us thinks of our children as the legacy of life, hoping that they will accompany us to the end. For these parents, however, this is not the case. Annarita and many others are bothered by the future. The "after us" is a serious matter and is not the subject of show, scandalism or defeatism, and the almost choral response of the Senate clearly says a lot. No one here is the exclusive custodian of the pain of these families; no one can be the totalitarian interpreter. We have a duty to give credible answers. "These wounds must be heard," Pope Francis said. I liked my colleague, Mrs Argentin, who said that this measure will be intended to give many smiles to people who, since they have brought a child into the world, have experienced the guilt and mourning of drawing up a limit that they have created. We try to understand ourselves: the "after us" is a social response above all to a defined audience, that of the serious disabled, and it is good that so, because the answers must be different and specific. Serious disabilities are people suffering not only from serious physical diseases, but also from mental delays and severe cognitive delays that prevent them from choosing their own future. And what does the trust do, by some demonized? He creates the trustee, who is a guarantor (often brothers and sisters) that will enable him to support the will of those who have been before him. It is a positive institution, a further possibility. This is a very long-awaited regulation for years and for which, for the first time, with this Government, with its majority and with the Groups that support it, it is already expected to allocate resources in the law of stability, in which a specific fund has been established at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, with important allocations, although we hope that they can be increased and we will work in this direction. It is a beginning, therefore, that we vindicate with pride; it could have been done before, but it has not been done. The resources are provided in a specific national fund for a subject in large part of regional competence, which is therefore possible to feed - as provided for in Article 4 - with the participation of regions, local authorities, third sector bodies, families and ONLUS, and which involves the involvement of organisations representing people with disabilities. It is, in essence, a useful and open vision, non-statist, more transparent, which sees a greater protagonism of the disabled and their associations; a positive vision of society, which is largely made by competent and generous people and not always by hardened criminals, as someone would like to fear. Allusions and suspicions about this world are truly unbearable and - I would say - hateful. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We clearly reject the general attacks on associations, cooperatives and social workers. This is a serious measure, aimed at specific people, not to be confused with other generic - but certainly very useful - policies for non-self-sufficiency, to be included also in a new design of social policies, more structured and modern, which has seen us protagonists already with the reform of the third sector, opposed by the same who today oppose the "after us". Social policy and not just white coats and hospitalization: we are talking about people with serious disabilities, according to Law No 104 of 1992. The legislation, therefore, gives answers to those who, unfortunately, cannot express their wishes, to those who cannot assert their rights, to those who cannot speak. The law recalls important UN conventions. And it is precisely these needs that have pushed our commitment to the Commission's work, to improve the text received from the House. There was the great work of the Commission, the rapporteur and the government here, which wanted to accept and accept important proposals, as well as the opinions of all the Commissions, particularly the Finance Committee. The individual project is put at the centre with the measures provided for in this bill, aimed also at avoiding institutionalization, with the involvement of stakeholders, in compliance with the will of persons with serious disabilities, where possible, of their parents or those who protect their interests. And, always to meet the needs of parents, families, article 1, paragraph 3, during the work of the Commission, the rapporteur has collected many requests, external and internal, of all the audit subjects and of most of the amending proposals, also in order to be able to take advantage of tax concessions, to choose who to assign and how to protect the heritage to be allocated to the care, care and protection of their children. The rule has therefore been improved, offering families the possibility to use institutions already provided for in the Civil Code. Adds, does not remove. Modernizes and strengthens opportunities. It is important to have included the possibility to segregate and protect the assets in favour of persons with disabilities, using the articles set out in the Civil Code, as well as the funds established by means of trust contracts that are subject to a destination obligation also in favour of non-profit organisations. These are the important points of this law, as important were the changes introduced in Article 6, which substantially amends - as has already been mentioned - the text of the House of Deputies. Article 4 gives guidance on the destination of the National Fund, but always having the objective of aiming at deinstitutionalisation, aiming to finance innovative residential experiences, such as co-housing and apartment groups. And there are many other innovations and innovations included in Articles 4 and 5. I'll finish. In addition to joy and enthusiasm, the Democratic Party, in voting for this important measure, also feels full responsibility for disabled people and their families: Government, Parliament, Regions, Local Authorities, ONLUS, Foundations, Institutions, Trusts, Volunteers and Associations now have an additional tool. We put our heads and hearts in giving voice to Annarita and all the other parents. As Pope Francis said, let us not forget that true power is service. We must guard people, care for every person, with love, especially for children, for the elderly, for those who are more fragile and who are often in the periphery of our hearts. With these firm and sweet words of Pope Francis, I announce the positive vote of the Democratic Party Group on this important measure. "After us" is not only assistance, it's life after mom and dad. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u46	We greet the students of the course of parliamentary law of the University of Siena, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u47	We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2232, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), AL-A (MpA) and Misto-Idv Groups. Congratulations.]] The draft law No 292 is therefore absorbed. As there are no other Vice Presidents, for less noble reasons I suspend the sitting until 11.25 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.19 a.m. and resumed at 11.25 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u50	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, yesterday, with a certain, but not too much surprise, I read an agency note that Senator D'Anna, whose absence I regret, said that the security measures put in place to protect Senator Capacchione would be completely destitute of foundation. We all know the commitment made by Senator Capacchione in the fight against organized crime, in camorristic species, in his previous work as a journalist - a non-spoken contrast, such as that which, alas, has been in fashion for a while, for some chattering of the anti-mafia - which has continued to deepen even in his parliamentary activity. All this, of course, exempts me from any other form of deepening, to show how ungenerous and unfair the observations of Senator D'Anna are. However, I have two comments to make. The first is that Senator D'Anna is a person too intelligent not to understand how this kind of statement is variedly interpretable, in the vicinity of an important election campaign, precisely in those lands, which for the first time see the A-LA Group supporting the Democratic Party candidate. Senator D'Anna, moreover, could well have, since the majority of his political group is no longer illegal, addressed directly to a Minister of his majority, the Minister of the Interior, to ask for account and reason of security measures. To Senator Capacchione, on behalf of myself and the Group, I wish to express the absolute solidarity and I would like to add to Rosaria Capacchione that, both I and the friends of Forza Italia, we are and will always be close to her. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u51	There are several colleagues who have asked me to speak. I ask you, because I will not allow it, to ensure that the debate does not turn and is not thrown into politics. We're talking about something different.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u54	FALANGA (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, I must make a point, as Senator Palma referred to the AL-A Group, to make it clear immediately that Senator D'Anna's statements have been made in a personal capacity and cannot involve the entire AL-A political group. As far as the merit of the specific topic is concerned, I must say that I did not know about organized crime, that is, how to carry out its activities, within the territory of Caserta, before learning them, with punctuality and precision, reading the book written by Rosaria Capacchione, entitled "The gold of the Camorra". It is a book that, for having been written in that way, denotes an in-depth knowledge of the phenomenon in those lands; a rare social, literary and journalistic commitment, which perhaps deserved a definitely more specific, acute and important attention from the media. It is clear that such a commitment can only expose its author to a condition of attention on the part of organized crime. It is enough just to consider that book to understand how the person who wrote it has been seriously exposed to any adversity that comes from a certain environment. Perhaps for this reason, I believe that not all, perhaps not even Senator D'Anna, have had the pleasure to read those pages and stories that Rosaria Capacchione wrote and it is probably the lack of knowledge of the person, his work and his commitment that will have induced, perhaps with a minimum of superficiality, if not so much, to affirm what has been said. Considering that I speak not only on my own behalf, but also on behalf of the entire AL-A Group, I believe I can be an adequate interpreter of the thinking of all the members of the Group, in expressing closeness, appreciation and solidarity to Senator Capacchione, even if, to be honest, I must point out that sometimes we are on different levels from a political point of view. However, being on different levels in the context of a proper relationship and democratic confrontation does not mean aggression or by some who attack some members of the AL-A Group (if not even the entire Group) or by someone from the AL-A Group who, defending himself, attacks in this way uncrite and incorrect. For these reasons, by inviting everyone to sobriety and democratic confrontation on the various issues and content of the measures that are being examined from time to time, I call for this kind of moderation. With regard to Senator Palma's final statement on the possibility for Senator D'Anna to address the Minister of the Interior, I must once again point out, if it had not been enough for the past, that we are supporting this Government on the reforms and on those measures that we believe we can share, but we do not consider the components of the present government as our reference. Let us make it clear once again that we are not in the majority and, therefore, enough with this story. We agree with those measures which we then vote on in this House, and of course we reserve the freedom not to vote on everything that we do not share. Having said that, I renew to Senator Capacchione my feelings of esteem and of the entire AL-A Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u57	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I apologise for not being able to respect your call for no political considerations. This is really impossible in view of this affair, which to call unpleasant is little. Therefore, I apologise in advance if I say something that may impact some susceptibility. Since I am Neapolitan and I began to make politics in my city with anticamorra movements, I had the privilege of meeting women and men who fought the Camorra until paying very hard prices. In this House I would like to make a few brief remarks, because, frankly, I do not even have enough applause, a little hairy, if I may say so, which the House is addressing to Rosaria Capacchione today. My and my Group's solidarity with Rosaria Capacchione and also with Roberto Saviano, who was also the subject of the brilliant interview given by Senator D'Anna to "A sheep's day" on Radio 2, is obviously obvious and I do not add words to those that are obvious. In these years, Roberto Saviano and Rosaria Capacchione have been, in a difficult land like mine, witnesses of a very important political battle, and have been victim, as we know, of threats and intimidation because they have had the courage to say things out loud that instead others do not say, even if they think. But, Mr President, things have to be put in line, otherwise we do not understand whether a statement is a joke or something else. Here, Senator Falanga, I'm sorry, but it's not just a wrong joke made during a radio show. Things need to be lined up. Well, it happened that a few days ago in Naples there was a press conference, not of Senator D'Anna but of Senator Verdini. I say that, as my colleagues know, in this House I am one of those who has a lot to say and to discuss the need to reform certain aspects of criminal justice in this country, which do not convince me. For example, they are one of those who think that some elements that have to do with protective custody should be reformed, just to say one, and that, precisely, the protective custody that lasts too long - as we know well from the statistics, which tell us that several of those subject to protective custody then are acquitted in the case - is objectively a very serious problem. So I guess it's not a taboo to discuss this. But it happened that in a few days three things were said, one in a row to the other. The first is that Mr Nicola Cosentino is the victim of some sort of revenge from the State, because he has been in jail for many days without trial. The second is that there are candidates in some lists in the municipal elections of Naples some political representatives, or presumed such, relatives of first or second degree and also homonyms of boss of the Camorra. The third: that Saviano and Capacchione must remove the escort. These three statements I put in line, because they are not said randomly: they are a clear and obvious political act; they are a clear and obvious political message. So, Mr President, I am sorry, but I simply do not have enough posthumous solidarity with Rosaria Capacchione. The problem arises first: when you make lists and when you make alliances. Anyone who talks about this should always remember what happened in Naples and Campania all these years. I would also like to say - and I say this from the Senate forum - to this young candidate, grandson of a boss, who says: What do you want, what will it be? In Naples, in the end, we are all a little 'camorristi': no, dear candidate of the list of AL-A to the Municipality of Naples, in Naples we are not all camorristi. I come from a story that is the same as Angelo Vassallo, Giancarlo Siani, Mimmo Beneventano and this thing I do not accept, I do not accept the furry solidarity and I think that this issue is not simply something to discuss a quarter of an hour in this House, but it is a reason for a serious reflection, otherwise it is just words that fall into the void. We need a lot more than this, and I am sorry to say it again: nothing more than to make political considerations! I make the political considerations all the way, I do them with my head up and I'm not afraid to say it. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD, FI-PdL XVII, M5S and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u60	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the words that Senator D'Anna used against Rosaria Capacchione and Roberto Saviano are unacceptable, in whatever way they are examined. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They are unjustifiable for any reason, political, electoral, campaigning, competition in the territory, may have been pronounced. And they are made much more serious and, therefore, they must be taken very seriously, because they refer to two people to whom the authorities of the State, after having long and carefully assessed the circumstances, have considered judicially, for serious reasons confirmed by the investigations, to have to grant serious protection so that they can be defended in a territory that we all know to put in danger of life all the good people who rebel against a misunderstanding and a very difficult and delicate environment. This is the place where Rosaria Capacchione and Roberto Saviano carry out their activities. I want to accept President Calderoli's invitation, because the electoral phase would also prompt us to talk about politics and I will not do so. I will say, closing, that I was very pleased to hear from those directly concerned that Senator Verdini recently called Senator Capacchione and apologized to her on his behalf and to Senator D'Anna. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u63	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, I believe that Mr D'Anna has not shone through the elegance and correctness of parliamentary reports. President Zanda gives us the news that, through his apology to Mr Capacchione through Senator Verdini, the relations that are appropriate between colleagues in this House have been restored. Let's hope that's true. Perhaps the route suggested by Ciro Falanga would have been more linear. Based on the reading of Rosaria Capacchione's book, Vincenzo D'Anna could have apologized directly and, perhaps, send a bouquet of flowers to Rosaria Capacchione and end the accident. I am Neapolitan and, unlike my friend De Cristofaro, I do not think this is the seat or the occasion to carry out the electoral campaign on candidates for the Municipality. I think Senator D'Anna's insinuation was inappropriate from the point of view of the parliamentary code. However, from the point of view of the parliamentary code, to be in the majority, to be in opposition, to be neither in majority nor in opposition, as Mr Falanga legitimately claims for the AL-A Group, does not mean to have a privileged lane for the exercise of the inspection union. Mr President, on several occasions, many of our colleagues have pointed out that there is sloppyness and inattention on the part of the Government in the face of our exercise as an inspection union. If the answer to the questions were different depending on whether we sit between the majority or the opposition, it would be an even more unpleasant offense to Parliament than the insinuations on privilege - I do not know whether negative or positive, but it is not a privilege being dictated by security conditions - than the escort for a colleague whom I have always seen exercised with great commitment and seriousness both the profession of journalist and the non-professional parliamentary mandate, which does not legitimize any insinuation. I therefore hope that the news given by President Zanda will be more than sufficient for this House to resume its work. [[Applause from the Cor Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u66	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I welcome your invitation not to start a political debate between allies. With these allies, Senator Zanda, you have reformed the Constitution and are campaigning with them in Campania. I just say that the 5 Star Movement, of course, is associated with the demonstration of solidarity with my colleague Capacchione and certainly also with Roberto Saviano. We strongly condemn the statements of Senator D'Anna who, once again, has cast discredit, primarily on himself but, indirectly, on the whole institution that we are all here to represent. Perhaps, Mr President, it would be appropriate for the presidency of the Senate to make this very sentiment of condemnation, which I believe has been unanimously expressed by all the Members who have spoken so far. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u69	Mr Zavoli (PD). Mr President, I am not going to add anything that might seem like an addition to what my colleague, Mr Zanda, has already said. So I have no intention of making a political matter of the case that we are discussing and I apologise if I take the futile freedom to refer to a personal case. I was editor of the daily newspaper "Il Mattino" and I knew many aspects of that newspaper, its editors and, of course, also of the city that hosted me with great generosity. I was the first to go to the home of the Siani family and therefore I have a certain familiarity with the duty of a newspaper to protect and, when possible, credible and even necessary, to draw the attention of the Forces of order around cases that hit personal respectability but above all, in this case, the professional responsibility of a journalist who assumes the risk of doing what Senator Capacchione did. Well, to provoke a situation like the one that occurred and conclude it with a bouquet of flowers would really be a nice gesture, kind, but accessory and marginal. In respect of all the people who can make right and wrong statements, even in good faith, I would like to say that calling into question the legitimacy of a measure taken by the State against a journalist who in Naples - I repeat: in Naples - does his duty, it can mean something serious - this political yes and I apologise for it, but it is only a detail - because it discourages, after all, the credibility of the measures that are taken against those who do not adapt to doing day-to-day journalism, begging, but commit themselves and risk, not only losing their reputation when they throw themselves at unfounded accusations. This may also discredit the reason why it is right that a newspaper to be respected as "The Morning," whose respectability I have witnessed, has taken the decision that it has taken, a dutyful decision, an indispensable step towards a journalist who has done his job. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed and CoR groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u70	I thank all my colleagues for their contributions. The Presidency, also on a personal basis, expresses the most complete solidarity, closeness and esteem for my colleague Capacchione. I asked not to slip into politics, not in the sense that we should not talk about politics here because Parliament is the cradle of politics, but because this was not an opportunity to campaign at a time when we are approaching the administrative turn in Naples. We can talk about any topic, but respect for a person comes first. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PD Groups and Senator Palma.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u71	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1627 and 984, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. The rapporteur, Senator Casson, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u72	Mr President, first of all, I would like to ask for permission to hand over the text of a more comprehensive and detailed written report, so that the proceedings are reflected in the work done by the Chamber of Deputies and then by the Senate Justice Commission. It is a story that I would define in some ways historical, in the sense that repeatedly, every year, when we go towards the anniversary of serious and dramatic events that have bloodied the life of our country, such as the massacres of the late Sixties, the Seventies and Eighties and the mafia massacres of the nineties of the last century, there are always complaints, disputes and above all requests to introduce the crime of depiracy by political groups, parties, associations, in particular the victims of the massacres and these very serious events. If we only remember what happened around events such as the massacre of Piazza Fontana or Piazza della Loggia, the massacre of Peteano, the massacre of Bologna, around the Moro case and the mafia massacres of the nineties of the last century, we realize how much is opportune and I would say necessary, from the social and political point of view, to predict hypotheses and specific offences for those who infidelly have worked against the ascertainment of the truth for these dramatic events. From a parliamentary point of view, in the course of the last legislatures, various draft laws were presented which sought to put order in this matter. During this parliamentary term, the House of Deputies approved the bill no. 1627, which in 2014 came to the examination of the Senate Justice Commission, where we already had a bill that concerned other hypotheses of misdirection. We have considered that we are doing coordination work, and I must acknowledge that all the senators, all the political groups present in the Justice Commission, have actively worked together to create this new text, which we are submitting to the House. Basically, precisely because of the experience gained from the events of the past, we have considered to bring together in the aforementioned bill the two fundamental hypotheses, that is, that of a criminal material behavior that is succumbed under the case of procedural fraud according to specific determinations and explanations and that of the declarations made before the prosecutor, before the judge and before the authority of the International Criminal Court just as deceiving activity. Unlike the text that came to us from the Chamber of Deputies, which provided for a kind of general common crime, in the Senate's Justice Commission it was considered appropriate to configure the crime of misdirection at first instance and above all as a crime proper to the public official, with a basic penalty, which is identified from three to eight years, and, in particular cases of alteration of documents and destruction of acts always in order to mislead or conceal investigations, there is a special assault on these behaviors. There are also special predictions whether these procedural frauds on the one hand and false statements or statements of denial or reluctance are made in criminal proceedings concerning the most serious crimes under our penal code, namely those of massacre, terrorism, organized crime and some other specific offences indicated. In this case, there is a sentence for public officials from six to twelve years of imprisonment and, with regard to false or repentant statements, a special charge, balanced according to whether the behavior can be a false, renegent or repentant statement or as a aid to the person who committed the crime. I would confine myself to these brief points, given the request made to me, and perhaps, during the presentation of the individual amendments, I will be able to say a few more specific words. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u73	The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the text of the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u74	Mr President, this proposal has been drawn up extensively in the Justice Commission, of which Senator Di Maggio is a member for our Group, who, in principle, expressed a consensus on this draft law. As far as I am concerned, I have no reason to lose this broad consensus that the rapporteur would explain - as he did very well - the lines of the measure. In any case, I reserve the right to speak in the examination of the amendments, either personally or on behalf of the Group. There is, of course, a concern about which I believe, however, that the work of the Commission has been satisfactory, namely that the usual trial of intentions, of the crime of opinion, is being created. I have the impression - and I trust, from this point of view, the assessments of the representatives of my Group who were able to express themselves in the Commission - that at least for now this text is free of this concern. In any case, in the course of the debate and when assessing the amendments, there will be better and greater scope for action.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u75	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u76	Mr President, to be honest, I believe that this issue is really important and that it addresses a number of issues on which our country, over the last thirty years, has been in a political and journalistic controversy, built on the problem of the so-called mystification of the truth or, as indicated in this measure, the misdirection. As evidence of the importance of the subject, I would like to inform my colleagues of what the head of state (Napolitano before and Mattarella after) and the high offices of the State have said in the last two years, in reference to what, as Mr Bolognesi has explicitly written and Senator Bonfietti has repeated several times, would be the matter on which the need to introduce the crime of depiracy was born, namely the important facts of the history of our country. Last year, the President of the Senate, speaking on 9 May here, on the occasion of the Day of remembrance of the victims of terrorism and massacres, explicitly referring to the victims of the massacres of Ustica and Bologna station, said: We know a lot but not everything: we must insist, engage more to illuminate with the truth the still hidden corners of these events, in which international and national plots, betrayals and depistrations have interwoven. And he added: This is the highest task of the institutions and political parties, demanding clarity beyond convenience. (at 12 p.m.) (Follows YOUNG PEOPLE). Napolitano, on the occasion of the anniversary of the massacre of Ustica, urged "to make every further effort (...) to arrive at a comprehensive reconstruction of what happened in the skies of Ustica and committed "all the institutions to do their part to arrive at the ascertainment of the truth". And, again, Mattarella, last year, said: "It is necessary to persevere in the tenacious search for a truth that is finally unique about what happened" and so on. Solemn appeals of the high offices of the State to the truth. I have been working on this side for years, and even recently, as my colleagues know, I have had the privilege, as part of the Committee of Inquiry into the abduction and death of Aldo Moro, of seeing cards still covered by the "secret" and "secret" stamp, after thirty-six years from the facts of Ustica. We all thought that the secret of State had been removed on the events of which this bill is concerned, on the slippages and on those facts instead we found that only two years ago, at the initiative of the President of the Council Renzi, the bond of state secrecy was removed. Moreover, while the secret of State on the acts relating to massacres has been removed, the most sensitive documents referring to that time have been again secreted, so they can be consulted, they can be taken notes, but if it is disclosed the content is expected the penalty of three years in prison for the author of the disclosure. Of course, I felt obliged to inform my fellow senators, Members and the public that there are very important elements in those explosive papers to reread those events, and what was Mr Bonfietti's response to this attempt to find the truth? Senator Bonfietti says: From the hat of Giovanardi's magician no white rabbit comes out, but yet another misdirection against the truth, "a trick to deceive the public opinion" and then again: Senator Giovanardi continues in his disinformation about Ustica's story, says the false story, and therefore the senator continues unceasingly in his misinformation and misdirection, and so on. Now, in the draft law under consideration, the misdirection is severely affected, and I am not referring to what is written in relation to individual cases, which I share as those who alter a test, those who destroy an element or those who falsify the cards, but to the misdirection as perceived in the common opinion, that of those who indicate roads other than those that someone believes lead to the truth. On the one hand, therefore, there is the slippage, and on the other, after thirty-six years, on these facts explicitly recalled by the high offices of the State about the need to make clarity, we cannot make clarity because the contents of those cards cannot be made known. In this I see a certain contradiction: in democratic countries, after thirty years, drawers and historians, magistrates, public opinion and journalists are open; we, after thirty-six years, are in a position to be accused of being deportees and not being able to disclose the contents of those papers or at least certain details. Of course, those who go to read the history of that terrible year 1980 will discover, from the book of Grignetti and from the statements of Zamberletti, that after they were kidnapped the land-air missiles in Ortona and arrested a group of Palestinians, along with characters of the Italian Workers' Autonomy, an dramatic short circuit with the Palestinian groups, especially with the Front for the liberation of Palestine (FLP), who asked loudly for the application of the Moro praise of 1973, of which there is trace in all the papers, even those made public by the Moro Commission. I am referring to the agreement that the Italians made with the Palestinians to allow weapons to circulate freely on our territory, provided that our territory was not affected by terrorist attacks, as had already happened. The problem was that that time the Palestinians were not released, indeed they were condemned and kept in prison. It is therefore a terrible escalation, of threats and reprisals, even aimed at striking innocent victims with precision, while, as time passed and instead of the desired liberation, for the captured Palestinians there was condemnation and detention in prison, on the other hand it felt betrayed. The Government is here: I don't understand why it doesn't make these cards public; why it doesn't make public the threats that had been made to Italy; why it doesn't make public the fact that the targets to be hit had even been indicated with some precision; why it doesn't make public the fact that the informants had authoritatively said that the situation was at its limit and that, exactly on 27 June in the morning (the explosion of Ustica happened in the evening), dramatic news came about the imminence of an attack. I'm not revealing state secrets, because I don't name names and I don't say the specific things that emerge from the acts. As we speak of misdirection, I would like to point out that the generals accused at the time of misdirection and high treason, having renounced the prescription with respect to the offences charged with them, have all been acquitted with full formula: with criminal sentence of cassation, they have been declared absolutely foreign to any attempt at forgery and misdirection. The penal section of the cassation said that the air battle and missile are science fiction and that there is no match, but I also know that then there were the civil sentences, in the wake of a certain lawyer Francesco Batticani of Bronte (magistrate? No, attorney and honorary judge aggregate), who wrote, five years before the criminal sentence, that according to him had been a missile. The sentence that provides 100 million compensation to be paid to Italy goes on appeal, where the State's Bill presents the cards of the criminal trial and wins, because there was no sign of missile. At the criminal trial, 4,000 pages of expertise were presented, in which the eleven most qualified experts (German, Swedish and English) demonstrated that there had been a bomb on board. In appeal, as I said, the state's bill wins, but then you go to the cassation, where the matter is decided by a quirk: Itavia's defense said that those cards were presented the next day. It was therefore necessary to return to appeal and redo the sentence, not taking into account what the Criminal Cassation had decided and therefore, since only one hypothesis remains on the table, that of the missile, on the basis of the most likely that not, having presented the parties only one element to explain things, the Civil Cassation confirms. But he says he's been tried to get away with it. Whose misdirection? Where was the misdirection tried? We are overflowing and overflowing in these thirty years a whole series of contradictory elements, so clearly and rightly the head of the State Mattarella says that we must arrive, on these facts, at a unified and shared truth. In civilian states, when there is a plane crash - think about what happened on Sinai a few months ago, think about the ongoing investigation into the last plane crash, think about Lockerbie - who sets the causes of the accidents? Aeronautical experts. And once the cause of the plane's fall has been established, the magistrates are looking for those responsible. Italy, on the other hand, is the only country in the world where the experts give a unique answer (it was a bomb on board), but the magistrates continue to run after the hypothesis of the missile. But not only that. As I said, those who argue in tune with the Penal Court and in tune with what the experts have concluded, are accused of being a deportee and one who falsifies the papers. Then I say: out the cards! And I ask for the solidarity of the whole Parliament and the Government, so that, after 36 years, we can know those things that I and some of my colleagues have read. Then some colleagues can say that according to them there is nothing relevant, while others, like me, claim that there are explosive things, that predetermine all a scenario written before the events happened, including the triangle between the Palestinian extremists, with behind Libya and the autonomouss, of which names and surnames are made, including the Italian cities in which these lords operated. And this is also related to the death of Moro and the presence of the German terrorist Kram in Bologna on the night of August 2nd, etc. That's what Cossiga said. Is there the will of all to come to the truth? If I play poker and have an ace poker in my hand while my opponent has two "eight," if the opponent claims to have won him, you have to uncover the cards; if the cards can't be put down, you win by definition, without the cards you can see. This is the situation in which we are about these events, at the moment I am speaking, because the law is born on these events. I have discovered with dismay that, until two years ago, all the magistrates who investigated these massacres could neither see nor read those papers that we can see today. For only two years now the privileged have been able to read them, but they cannot disclose them. So historians and journalists can't get to know about it: no one. Then I feel like I'm living a Kafkian situation. I do not say that I am right and the other wrongs; I say only that reason or wrong are built through a documentation that is made available to everyone so that we can deepen a whole series of themes that are truly significant for the history of our country. Some have written that the Moro praise does not exist. If the Moro praise does not exist, we do not understand why in pages and pages, in the reports on Arafat and the Palestinian groups all we do is talk about this agreement, that it must be maintained or that it must jump because the people taken prisoner have not been released. In order to get to the truth, it is not necessary then to be afraid of the truth; it is necessary to get to do something absolutely shared, otherwise someone goes up in the chair, accuses others of being depistrators and here also arises a technical-political problem. In fact, I went to see the term "depiaggio" which enters the penal code for the first time. Misdirection is a deviation, a manipulation of suspects emerged in an investigation: to get out of the right track suggesting misleading traces; figuratively, to throw away the investigations. On some specific things I agree perfectly with what is in the text and, that is, to aggravate the penalties for those who do things understandable; it destroys a test, falsifies an act, pollutes an environment. All things verifiable. But here too I would be cautious. For example, you know that Italy has not yet submitted its final report on the fall of the aircraft in Ustica in Canada at the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) thirty-six years ago. In the event that an airplane crashes, each country has a duty to present a final report in which it tells ICAO what are the causes that caused its fall. We haven't introduced him yet. I wrote then to Dr. Franchi, president of the National Agency for Flight Safety, the new agency that finally in the event of an air accident has to go and see technically how things happened, and I asked them if it was possible to reopen an investigation, even technical, on Ustica. He replied politely the other day, saying that it is absolutely impossible because when so many years have passed, there is no longer the genuineness of the evidence. For example, in Bologna I saw in the hangar the Museum for the memory of Ustica and the DC9 reconstructed (it was also mounted badly), and with dismay I learned that it is no longer evidence. We can no longer make an assessment of what was recovered at the bottom of the sea with enormous expenses and was made available to the experts, Taylor, Lilja, the Swedes who did that research, because it was seized, put in the museum and is no longer a source of proof. What am I supposed to say then? That whoever destroyed the evidence or prevented the magistrates (who are still investigating, because I remember that on Ustica there are still criminal investigations in progress) and that who then allowed to confiscate that plane, which was a source of proof, and mounted it badly in the hangar depiste? Is he a hustler? There is just one of the factual elements that in the law are referred to as misdirection, some even as procedural fraud. There will be a justification and it will be said that under pressure from those who have asked for it, the magistrate has granted it: but a very serious mistake has been made because a fundamental element of proof is no longer so. Beyond the articles that specify when a person commits procedural fraud, why put the word "depiracy" in the title? Why add this diction? In the article I read the specific facts that lay down the law, on which I absolutely agree: those who artificially change the body of the crime or the state of the places or affirm the false, deny the truth, be silent about what they know about the facts on which they are heard. These are rules that are already written in exactly the same way in the code: the penalties are aggravated, but they are the same. If then the event occurs through destruction, suppression, concealment, damage, the penalty has increased from one third to half. On this point I fully agree. Article 2 provides for the fact that the facts are committed in order to prevent or mislead an investigation; but, fellow senators, when Giovanardi, and not only him but also the eleven international experts, the criminal trial or the Criminal Court, showed that the hypothesis of the missile and the aerial battle was science fiction and laughter and the experts concluded for the bomb on board, were they misleading an investigation? According to Senator Bonfietti, that's the way I am. The assonance between this public emphasis which was given to the term "depiracy" and the fact that this term enters into a law, which should indicate precisely the crime, is then a political proclamation. It is said in this way that, from now on, we will put the deportees in jail. But who are the runners? If it is those who destroy or alter evidence or places, they agree perfectly. If, in political polemics, the depistrator becomes someone who maintains a different thesis from those who think they have the truth in their pockets, you understand that we would set ourselves on a completely wrong path. (at 12.16 p.m.) (Follows YOUNG PEOPLE). Once again, after the parliamentary questions, after the newspapers "La Stampa" and the "Corriere della Sera" have dedicated a full page to the subject, after the "Resto del Carlino" interviewed Zamberletti. You know that the latter on 2 August 1980 was in Malta signing the international treaty with which Malta was detaching itself from Libya and abandoning the military agreement with that country and also the exploitation of oil on the continental shelf, to which the Libyans were very fond. When the Bologna bomb broke out, Maltese Prime Minister Dom Mintoff said: This is the Libyan reprisal. It is written in the book of Zamberletti, who was there to sign, as Undersecretary, on behalf of the Italian Government. Why did he say that? For months Libya, both because of the Palestinians who were not liberated and because of the treaty, threatened that it would resort to reprisals against innocent people. After the "Corriere della sera", "il Resto del Carlino", "la Stampa", "il Giornale", "il Giornale" and historians raised this problem, asking to go see the papers, Mr. representative of the Government, why is the Government silent? Why doesn't the government tell us why, after 36 years, some of us can go and consult those papers, but public opinion, historians and journalists can't know what it says? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Giovanardi, I invite you to conclude, because your time is up. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). I'm finishing, ma'am. It is I who feel damaged, because if I had to use the term "depiaggio", as someone used it, controversially, is not it a sort of depiste not to make public some cards after thirty-six years, that I do not understand what interest they still have for the security of the state and that refer to specific situations? [[Senator Airola's comments.]] The colleague of the 5 Star Movement interrupts me, because he obviously does not care about the truth. I want to read the papers and make them public, while he wants to keep them secret. I am for the culture of transparency: you can see that he has a different culture. These are the reasons why we have tabled amendments, which I shall explain as soon as they are referred to in the debate on the Article. [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u77	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u78	Mr President, I believe that we need to think about the nature, purpose, reason and need for which we are now introducing a criminal law, which also contains the word 'depiracy' in the heading. Senator Giovanardi fought against the introduction of this word, but it has a specific reason, which lies in our history. In the history of our country there are too many events that constitute a wound, not only for the pain of the people involved and that are looking for a truth that they cannot find; it is a wound that widens and becomes even more painful and worrying for the very concept of being part of a state. I am a member of the Commission of Inquiry into the causes of the Moby Prince ferry disaster, where we have been dealing with an issue that has been waiting for twenty-five years for answers, and our work is public: anyone can read most of our sessions and discussions. What emerges is an extreme ramification, the difficulties, the overlapping of testimonies that go in the opposite direction, the insufficiency of the data provided and the superficiality in providing first of all relief and then, later, also in trying to pursue a truth. There have been 140 deaths, whose respective families have been waiting since that day. There is an entire community that is waiting for answers that it has not had, witnessing - indeed - a series of measures of the judicial authority that have humiliated the search for truth and the need for justice. I do not just want to remind you of the facts of Moby Prince, because - unfortunately - there are also other episodes that have the same characteristics. I would like to make a brief reflection with you, ladies and gentlemen, on what this story means to everyone. In fact, in these events it is in fact seen the contrast between people painfully involved in a more or less direct way and interested in having in their hands a truth and what has been perceived as a dark power, a will, without name and face, to prevent the attainment of a truth. In this way they have been accredited and manifested, even without having the right to a recognition of the facts and therefore also of the responsibilities, the forces, the reasons and the interests. In the story Moby Prince mixed elements of any kind: from the military ships, which on that night were definitely still in the port of Livorno, to other economic interests, up to the interests to cover the fragility in the response of those who had to take charge of the efficiency of the rescues. This is very bad not only to the people involved, but also to the construction of the perception of a state that exists and of which all legitimately belong, including the marine ones, the families that went on vacation, the commander of the ship and all the harbours. It also includes the community of Livorno and all the communities that are directly concerned. In the end, we're all part of it. The damage that comes from these sad, painful and prolonged procedural events that do not allow to reach the truth is the very construction of the awareness of being part of all, with full title and right, a State that is truly responsible for the guarantee of the isonomy and the recognition to all of a right. These citizens, who are prevented in their own capacity as citizens, suffer a betrayal that hurts because, with a slow release, it effectively alienates citizens from the institutions. The meaning of the bill in question is precisely to limit the crime of depiracy as a crime that hurts the very construction of the idea of a State that exists, provides, gives answers, protects, leads to the truth and courageously sets aside the power of powers, whose existence can certainly not be denied, in order to allow those who have the right to reach its truth. For this reason, although I very much appreciate the work done by the rapporteur in the Commission, which has allowed for the sharing of many aspects of the bill, I have tabled an amendment which, through the word 'anyone', clearly restricts and tends to emphasize before anything - it was also the role of those who carry out acts that are involved in procedural fraud and, above all, in the misdirection, beyond the function of those who carry them out - the very concept of misdirection, before going to decide whether it is an official public or a private person. I do not think I can give up this change because I would like to stress for everyone that we must tackle this problem not only from the point of view of the establishment of a specific crime, but from the cultural point of view, for which detour is an offense that from anyone who is made, it is first of all an offense to the State's potential to protect all its citizens. There is also another aspect that you will find in my amendments, which may seem strong but which I intend to support, and it is the ban from public offices. For me the seriousness of this crime in case it is committed by those who have a public role, by those who are public officials or in charge of public service, requires perpetual ban from public offices. We today, in this legislature and in this Senate, have to decide something important, that is, to build up the personality of those who are in charge of public affairs, and there are no gradations on this. The gradation that you find in the bill, which provides for the perpetual ban from public offices only if the condemnation is more than three years of imprisonment, for me, for my position, shared also by those who have signed the amendment, does not affect what, in my opinion, is a speech that we must face courageously, that is, what the quality of those who deal with the public thing must be regardless of the extent of the damage it causes. There is an attitude, there is a willingness, and I must go on this to measure the quality of those in charge of a public service or of those who are public officers. It is too delicate to make distinctions on the basis of a conviction; it is not a fact linked exclusively to the process of proceedings and therefore to what will be the sentence that the judge will decide. This must become a constitutive element of the concept of civil servant. Mr President, I have concluded, and I do not think that I will have to speak again for the explanation of amendments. Those who wanted to listen to me and wanted to understand the meaning of my speech, I believe that they were able to write it in that of a bill that is necessary and necessary. [[Applause from Senators Baptist, Bencini and De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u79	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in general debate on this measure in my dual capacity as a member of the Commission of Justice, but also as a member of the Commission of Inquiry into the causes of the disaster of the Moby Prince ferry, which I quote because even this disaster, like so many others, would probably not yet be a mystery, after twenty-five years, if there had not been any misdirection, changes in the state of the place and of things, destruction, suppression, concealment of objects that would undoubtedly have helped in the difficult reconstruction of the truth. A truth that, evidently, someone would not have liked at all. Just like so many other times, maybe too many, we've had a chance to see in our country. From the massacre of Piazza Fontana onwards, omissions, lies and destruction of evidence and documents prevented the discovery of the material and moral leaders of terrorist-eversive attacks, but also of the many mafia attacks that have repeatedly devastated our country. Among the most striking acts of depiracy, I cannot but recall the disappearance of the red agenda of Paolo Borsellino, the deletion of the memory of John Falcone's computer, the introduction of false collaborators of justice in the massacre of Via d'Amelio, the depistrations of the massacre of Ustica, not to mention the process related to the agreement between the State and the Mafia associations. This premise would suffice to welcome the introduction into our legal system of the crime of misdirection; it could, in fact, represent an important tool for the fight against crime, a crime not only of a mafia nature, but also made up of deviant pieces of the institutions. The 5 Star Movement is particularly close to all the victims and those who have struggled for many years to arrive at the truth behind the massacres that have bloodied our country. That is why we are in favour of introducing this new crime into our legal system, provided that it is effective in relation to its objectives. When we talk about the effectiveness of a rule, we cannot fail to bring the prescription into play. Unfortunately, in Italy we still do not have a reform of the limitation periods. I remember that since the introduction of the wicked law ex Cirielli, the prescription has mowed one and a half million trials and continues to erase criminal proceedings at the rate of over one hundred thousand per year. At least for this very serious crime, the misdirection, consider the need not to make it a prescription. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] To this end, we have proposed an amendment to the statute of limitations, which follows the same special regime as for Mafia offences and doubles the time limits for all the cases covered by the scheme. It should be borne in mind that if the misdirection is the diversion of the punitive claim of the State, the limitation is even the extinction of the punitive power of the State, that is, the renunciation of the State to do justice. The text under discussion could be further improved by re-introduction of the arrest in flagrant cases, in the event of false testimony, with particular reference to the perjury of the public officer for serious crimes. The false witness should be able to be prosecuted immediately, as already happens in the case of those who are caught in flagrant serious crimes and, as already happens, in several other countries. The combination of the lengthening of limitation periods and the withdrawal in flagency would undoubtedly considerably strengthen the deterrent scope of the rule. We have also proposed to extend the application of the ancillary penalty of perpetual ban from public offices to all the criminal hypotheses provided for in the measure, thus extending it also to cases of penalties less than three years of imprisonment. If, in fact, it is understandable and agreeable the forecast of a great discount of penalty - from half even to two thirds - towards those who collaborate with the judicial authority in the reconstruction of the fact object of depiracy (in view of the fact that this collaboration may be useful to discover other crimes that lie behind the same depiracy), it is considered that the widening of the ancillary penalty of ban from the public offices can represent the right compromise between the necessity to favor the collaboration with the investigators and that of greater protection from the hypothesis of recurrence of the same offence. In conclusion, Mr President, it has been sixteen years since the first such proposal was tabled in Parliament and the other three attempts that followed have proved unsuccessful. Today, on the other hand, it seems that Parliament can come to the approval of this new crime. Those who prevent, hinder or mislead a criminal investigation or trial in Italy, with the introduction of the crime of depiracy, will risk a criminal penalty that will hardly allow them to avoid prison. Mr President, I believe that we owe it above all to the relatives of the victims of all the massacres which, despite them, have sadly marked a part of the history of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u81	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u82	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u83	Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment on how the Commission's in-depth work ended with the unanimous vote on the text before the House. I would like to repeat what will be said in relation to the amendments relating to one particular point, namely the choice of setting up the main crime as a crime proper to the public official. This derives from the teaching of the history of our country, having noted that the great part of the behaviors that we want at this moment become delittuous have been put in place by those who were to be the most faithful towards the State and who, instead, betrayed it. Of course there have also been cases of private individuals, but in Article 2 there is a basically autonomous case with appropriate aggravating factors depending on the type of behavior.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u84	As the Government representative does not intend to intervene in the reply, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles of the unified text proposed by the Commission. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which will be discussed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u87	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, I very rarely speak in this House, even to avoid the risk of dissipation of words. However, Mr Giovanardi's speech, also because of the passion and vehemence with which he put forward his arguments, deserves some clarification, at least as far as I am concerned. Of course, the problem of misdirection requires an in-depth consideration and, moreover, touches me personally, because I have lived directly the story of the massacre in Piazza della Loggia on 28 May 1974. A story that, as documented in court, certainly includes activities of misdirection. There is no doubt that a distinction must be made between the need to pursue depiracy, understood as a concrete and material fact, and the judgment that is attributed to evaluations and opinions among them also very different. I think we are all equally sensitive about this. Mr Giovanardi has raised two types of problem. The first concerns the interpretation that can be given of some documents, the second is their knowledge and dissemination. On the question of interpretation, I, like some colleagues, have been able to consult, thanks to the fact that I am a member of the 'Moro Commission', the documents to which Mr Giovanardi refers. I must point out that my consultation is still incomplete and that I have not yet checked all the papers in the availability of Members. It seems to me that a fundamental objection can be addressed to Mr Giovanardi, and I propose it without prejudice or preconception. What is this objection, in order to avoid all the risk of a political use and abuse of history and documentation on which historical interpretation is supported? First of all, those papers certainly refer to a political framework within which it is possible to recognize a policy of agreed immunity. To refer explicitly to a Moro praise which, until proven otherwise, on the basis of documentary evidence, has not yet been identified, to me seems at least imprudent. It is possible, of course, I repeat, to speak of a policy of immunity agreed upon and this emerges from the documents. For the time being, however, in the current state of knowledge, I do not think it is possible to go any further. The second point: I can undoubtedly recognise that those papers are significant and relevant in terms of the historical interpretation of a particular season and a specific moment in the development of Italian politics. However, in my opinion, with reference to facts such as the massacre of Ustica or that of Bologna, it is completely reckless and hasty to draw conclusions which seem to me not yet plausible. In fact, there are two objections which can be raised to the conclusions which my colleague, in my opinion, draws too quickly. The first is that, first of all, there is never an explicit reference in those papers to the events that he recalls. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Corsini, excuse me, but we are having the debate on all the amendments. Mr Corsini (PD). Yes, but I could not speak in general debate. Allow me a few more jokes. In those cards there are no specific references, neither with respect to the first nor with respect to the next. Moreover, even a scholar who certainly belongs to a school very different from mine wonders whether, in relation to the massacres of Ustica and Bologna, the reaction to the arrest of the Palestinian militant-manager can be read as proportionate to the advanced threats. The last observation. Mr Giovanardi raises a real problem, which is that of descretation. Beyond the merits that President Renzi undoubtedly has acquired from the point of view of the descretation of the archives, the fact remains that, in relation to cards classified as very secret, a question to be asked to the Government is certainly legitimate. It would seem to me that it would be right and appropriate for the Government to question whether, in relation to the changed conditions of the political climate, it is not appropriate to make these papers known. That is why I believe that the question raised by Mr Giovanardi is legitimate and acceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u88	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u89	Mr President, I would like to call for the withdrawal of Amendment No 1,100, otherwise the opinion will be against it, because it concerns the issue of the public official I have already mentioned. I call for Amendments Nos 1,101, 1,102 and 1,103 to be withdrawn, or I am against them. The question refers to the perpetual prohibition from public offices; the condemnation, with regard to the proposed text, should be more than three years. The above-mentioned opinion is expressed because, although I agree with the demands and the spirit of these amendments, I note that there are profiles of constitutional illegitimacy, because there is a whole series of much more serious crimes for which this issue is not raised, so the diversified treatment would create profiles of constitutional illegitimacy. I call for the withdrawal of amendment 1,104. I only recall that in theory for these crimes, as for others of this species, it is expected both the arrest in optional flagency and the order of custody; however, it was excluded from a systemic point of view the possibility of being able to proceed at the hearing. I call for Amendment No 1,105 to be withdrawn, otherwise I am against it. With regard to Amendments Nos 1,106 and 1,107, which concern the subject of limitation, there is also an invitation to withdraw or to express an opinion against it, because this is an issue which will be dealt with precisely in these days by the Commission Justice and because the most serious hypothesis of aggravated depiracy is included among those that fall under Article 157 of the Criminal Code. Moreover - this is really serious - the lighter hypotheses, for profiles of reasonableness and correspondence of constitutional order, cannot be inserted in order to avoid treatment of inequality. I therefore call on you to withdraw, otherwise I am against it. I propose a rewording of the agenda G1100 which, if accepted, will lead me to give a favourable opinion. I propose the deletion of the first paragraph of the premises, from the words "Article 7" to the words "Protest evidence" because it refers to specific facts concerning the issue with Egypt, with which we would not like to enter war. The second paragraph is okay, while the initial part of the commitment to the Government is okay with regard to the arrangements to consider whether to implement the content of the agenda under consideration, but I would delete the remaining part. As mentioned above, if the proposers accepted the proposed reformulation, the opinion would be in favour of acceptance. I would like to take this opportunity to express my opinion on the amendments to Article 2, which supports all the proposals tabled, including the additional amendment 2.0.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u90	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u91	I would like to ask the draftsmen of the agenda G1,100 if they accept the proposal for a rewording tabled by the rapporteur. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u94	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to say first of all that I welcome the call for the withdrawal of Amendment No 1,105, while on 1,100, although I agree with the aspects and the final result of the draft law, I would stress that, if it is true that this measure comes from a history of ours, it is equally true that a law must become general for the future; therefore, having done a crime of its own might not be enough to create that dimension that we want to create with the introduction of the crime of depiding.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u97	Mr Capelletti (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, have you asked for the floor? GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). No, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u98	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In the meantime, let's clean up the cards because they seem to be in excess. I invite colleagues to help our secretary senators by removing the cards of absent senators. Colleagues, we need to organize the work. Since we have not set a closing time for the sitting, but because the Presidency is oriented - if supported by the House - to close the sitting after the conclusion of this measure, the sooner we do, the better.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u100	But if I had given her the floor before and she didn't want to intervene! GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). I want to speak now in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u101	[[Comments from PD and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u102	Senator Giovanardi, I asked you if you wanted to intervene and you said no. During the collection of the cards he could have quietly carried out his speech. Now try to report your request. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u103	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). I have to answer Mr Mussini and Mr Corsini. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u104	Senator Giovanardi, I'll take your word for it if you don't make an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u105	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Well, I am voting against this amendment, reminding my colleague, Mr Mussini, that he has a romantic view of things... PRESIDENT. You have to go to the presidency, Senator. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). I was saying Senator Mussini has a romantic vision of things. In any country in the world, technicians and experts determine, as I said before, the causes of an air accident. In this regard, look at the documentary on National Geographic with Taylor's statements in English, which basically concludes by saying: We have discovered the truth, but the magistrates do not want to hear it. This is because it was Dr Prior who said that four years of work of the eleven greatest international experts according to him were contradictory. Dr. Prior was totally disavowed in the three degrees of judgment. The situation, then, is a little more complex: what is the truth? Is it that of a magistrate who knows nothing about technique or the 11 greatest experts in the world? Who's the tipper? These events, if they go in the sense indicated by my colleague, can penalise and incriminate anyone who supports a different thesis. Dear Senator Corsini, I also know that it does not say what happened the next day, but it says what was about to happen: retaliation. A plane had even been pointed out as...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u106	Senator Giovanardi, I'm taking your word for it because you've moved away from the subject of the discussion. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Baptist]] What you're saying is foreign to the subject we're dealing with. [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] I decide what's on the subject and what's not, Senator Giovanardi. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). There is a secret of state. Because it's Thursday! You go there later, home. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, I'm calling you back to order. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,101, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u109	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. In view of Mr Giovanardi's cooperative attitude, may I ask if you can kindly extract the card of your neighbor, Senator Formigoni, absent. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u112	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, as we are talking about derailment and secrets, it is clear that we will never find a written and signed document by Aldo Moro on the issue of the agreement with the Palestinians, but there are cables and these are public. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, you cannot use the Senate Chamber to reveal state secrets! GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). But that's what we're talking about. We're just talking... president. You are talking about content on specific issues. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). No, I'm talking about a senator who is accused of misdirection, that is to say to carry on the crime we introduce; a senator - and these are public elements - who informs public opinion and the Senate that the thing we are talking about (i.e. the praise) is in official documents and is repeated dozens of times. I say, then, to Mr Corsini, who understands the importance of this debate, that we will never find a written document, but a hundred references yes, also in the letters of Aldo Moro. And then let's talk about the mysteries of Italy...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u113	It has nothing to do with the subject contained in the amendment. I'm gonna rip the word off. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Baptist.]] GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). They have to go home! CIOFFI (M5S). But you go home! [[Applause from Senator Airola]] I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,102, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,103 tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,104, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,105 has been withdrawn. I call on Senator Buccarella and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,106. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,107, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already made their views known. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.100, identical to amendment 2.101. Mr Capelletti (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by the rapporteur, identical to amendment 2.101, tabled by Senator Lumia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.102, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.100, tabled by Senator D'Ascola. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u116	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, I would like to turn over the text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u119	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am already saying that the Group of the North Legacy is in favour of adopting this measure, which introduces the crime of fraud in criminal proceedings and derailment into the criminal code. It provides for imprisonment for the public official who, in order to prevent or hinder a criminal investigation or trial, pollute evidence, provide false information and ultimately defile investigations. It is clear, therefore, that this measure responds to the demands of many associations of victims of very serious crimes, such as terrorist massacres, which have long been demanding the introduction of this crime. We believe that this measure will give new tools to investigators and the judiciary not only to hit the crimes, but above all to remove the veil of omerta compared to so many secrets and not truths that have characterized tragic events that have hit our country. It is a right choice, especially for respect for the victims of these events and for respect for their families. We hope, of course, that this measure will be effective and that it will not be a choice of convenience, only to highlight the attention of politics in relation to the demands for justice of the associations of the victims of the massacres, who are still deprived of the right to truth today. However, we must point out a very contradictory attitude on the part of this majority and this government. In the last three years, in fact, new crimes have been introduced, which want to give answers to some associations. I am referring to the crimes of environmental pollution, environmental disaster, transport and abandonment of radioactive waste, impediment to controls and omission of reclamation. These are new crimes introduced by this majority and by this Government; and so also the crime of street murder has been introduced, in order to respond to the associations of the victims. Today, there is a new crime, which concerns the misdirection, to respond to the associations of the victims of the massacres. Well, we find it contradictory that this Government continually introduces new crimes, obviously promoting the possibility of celebrating new trials, and on the other hand it has launched, in three years, five measures emptied prisons. So on the one hand it aggravates even more the courts of new proceedings and gives image responses to associations of victims of justice, but in concrete terms this Government and this majority have freed thousands of criminals, who had been put in prison after long investigations and after being the subject of trials. So the possibility is given to robbers, drug dealers and fraudsters to act freely on our territory, because the only answer to the problem of overcrowding of prisons was to empty them, putting thugs around freely circulating on our territory, making our country the ideal seat of organised gangs and dedicated to thefts in homes. Italy imports criminals from all over the world: 65 percent of those guilty of these crimes are foreigners [[Comments from the PD Group]] This has made our country a bengodi for those who live by robbing, scamming and stealing. We have a parliament, a majority and a government that say 'no' to the law to reform self-defense, to prevent those who are victims of criminals from becoming Italian justice. [[Comments by Senators Fornaro, Gatti and Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u120	Senator Tosato, I remind you that we're talking about the crime of misdirection.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u121	TOSATO (LN-Aut). I conclude by saying that we are absolutely not in line with the Government's action on justice, but with respect to this particular provision we assure our vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u124	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I had tried to move the debate to the next week, to have time to look into it, without colleagues having to flee home. I understand the need, but the importance of this issue must be taken into account. I note that, except for Mr Corsini, in an elegant way, none of my colleagues have been associated with my request to the Government for these documents to be made public after thirty-six years. Then, on June 27, we will hear the Head of State make the usual solemn appeal to seek the truth and to the commitment of the institutions to the truth. We will hear the Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate say that we will do everything, but I note that none of the senators in this House has raised the problem, after thirty-six years, when we are talking about misdirection, of going to see the sources in order to possibly understand who and what was indisposed. In the state of the proceedings, the government seems to me to be the real derailer, who refuses to make public decisive acts for the reconstruction of the subject we discussed this morning. Dear Senator Corsini, since the Committee of Inquiry into the abduction and death of Aldo Moro is underway, you know that this fax I have in hand is the one with which the Front for the Liberation of Palestine (FLP) announces the attack in Italy - we are in 1978 - and confirms the commitment to maintain the agreements signed with Italy in 1973. So we are talking about hitting the supposed throwers with serious penalties, while the Senate refuses to join my request, so that after thirty-six years the Government will make public some papers, which can be interpreted differently, dear President - from myself or Corsini - but they must be made public. Otherwise, how can we compare ourselves with all the science fiction hypotheses, with the directors who have enriched themselves with films, the guitos that have gone to tell the weirdest and most false things and the image of Italy that has ruined all over the world? Misdirection? There's a movie going on that says it was the Americans who caused one of the biggest tragedies, Ustica's, shooting down the plane, because an American plane hit the DC9. This is on Friday, because on Monday state television says that it was the French who killed him, with a missile of an airplane from Solenzara. We are covering ourselves with ridicule in front of the whole world, claiming theses that have enriched those who have put them around, but who are totally unaware of the truth. Therefore, the representative of the government is on the phone, colleagues have to go home, the leaders of the institutions will say again that they will do everything to get to the truth, but apparently no one in this House cares about the truth. [[Comments of Senators Fornaro and Gatti]] There is some pre-constituted thesis that continues to be conveyed. Colleagues, I haven't heard anyone, not even the 5 Star Movement colleagues, ask the government to make the papers public. For thirty years there has been the secret of state and on August 2 in Bologna there are the whistles of the square, because it is a scandal that you do not know the things covered and, today that we have the proof that things continue to be covered and are not disclosed, nobody says anything? I feel like I'm dreaming. Would it be a responsible Senate that covers the omissions and after 36 years covers the documents, because some officials classified them as very secret, the one in which no one gives an answer and the government silent? The only thing colleagues can do is to ask them to do quickly, because they have to go home. You tell me if this can be considered a day worthy of the Senate and if there has been a high-level debate on this subject. Do you know why I'm happy? Because out of here there are thousands of people who are listening to us and will know about this debate. Public opinion will determine the level of the debate... [[Senator Fornaro's comments.]] . who fights to know the truth and who fights to cover positions perhaps party d'antan, without any effort to induce the representative of the government... FORNARO (PD). We've never seen you in the Moro Commission in two years! GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). I note that no one has asked the government to make these acts public. I would be very pleased if some of my colleagues, after my speech, would stand up and do so, associating themselves with the request that - I repeat - historians, magistrates, public opinion, journalists and those who follow these events may know and judge the papers that, evidently, a large part of this Senate believes should be omertose and still locked in a drawer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u125	Senator Giovanardi, I would like to remind everyone, including myself, that here we are discussing the introduction into the penal code of Article 372- bis, concerning the crime of misdirection and that we are not talking about secrets or other things to which you refer. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u128	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I am speaking briefly, partly because I think it would be a good rule for those in the institutions to go to places dedicated to the search for truth. Given that the Committee of Inquiry into the abduction and death of Aldo Moro exists in Parliament, perhaps it would be good if some of the things that we heard this morning were discussed in Parliament and perhaps the subject that has just been discussed should also go through a more direct participation in the work of the Commission. Having said that, our Group will vote in favour of this measure. In fact, although we still have concerns, the majority of the text seems to us to be positive. In particular, we are satisfied with the introduction into our legal system of the crime of depiracy against the public officer or public service officer with regard to the crimes of massacre, mafia, exversion of constitutional order, drug trafficking, as well as illegal trafficking in weapons, nuclear, chemical and biological material. According to the prevailing orientation within the Mixed Group, the text that emerged from the legislative revision carried out in the Senate is improving the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. From my point of view, the fact of imagining this crime, not as a common crime, but as a crime of its own, as far as it is included in the heading of procedural fraud in the criminal mischief process, seems to us to be a step forward. Of course, this is not the place, nor is it the time to make a more rigorous and serious assessment of the history of Italy of all the last few years. We know that the measure was born on the initiative of Mr Bolognesi, President of the Family Association of the Victims of the Bologna massacre of 2 August 1980, the one that most of all probably had the characteristics (of massacre, as demonstrated by a famous counter-inquest carried out in the following years) whose senders and performers were for too long hidden inside a blanket of doubt, even if then it came to a judicial truth. In any case, we think that it will be good if during the weeks, months and years following the adoption of the measure under consideration we can interpret the introduction of the crime of depidation as a point of not arrival, but also as a starting point to discuss in this House what the Secret Service has been in these years and whether it still makes sense to define the Deviant Secret Services, or if it is insufficient. It would be good to discuss not simply the possible levels of deviation of the Secret Service, but how these have dealt with elements of difficulty in this country's democracy. I believe that the question that we ask ourselves, that is because only today is highlighted this provision, the long tell on which has been the climate in this country in all these years, from Portella della Ginestra onwards, passing through the massacre of State of Piazza Fontana, up to the massacres of Brescia, Bologna and everything that has happened in the past years. Well, the introduction of the crime of misdirection really seems to us to be the minimum trade union, if I may say so. We will therefore vote yes, but we think that this is a starting point and not an end point. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u131	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, this is one of the rare occasions when the House seems to be speaking in essence unanimously on the occasion of the adoption of a draft law. Also on this occasion, I am pleased to announce the favorable vote of the 5 Star Movement on the bill that finally introduces the crime of depiracy in our criminal law. There is only a few concerns in relation to a couple of amendments proposed by the 5 Star Movement in this House. I have listened to the rapporteur's reply, but frankly all doubts have not been cleared. I am referring specifically to the fact that we continue to consider it appropriate, to establish the perpetual prohibition from public offices against persons convicted definitively for the new crime referred to in Article 375 of the Criminal Code, once this bill is approved. Senator Casson made some legitimate observations, but it should be remembered that there are other cases, already provided for in our penal code, in which, beyond the amount of the penalty (in the case of the bill it is expected that the ban will only be taken with a sentence of more than three years imprisonment), the ancillary sanction of the ban from the public offices taken regardless of the amount of penalty granted. I refer to the provisions of Article 317 of the Criminal Code, which provides for certain crimes against the public administration, regardless of the penalty provided, the perpetual prohibition from public offices: the famous DASPO, which, as you know, the 5 Star Movement would also like to extend to other offences: for example, crimes related to corruptive facts. In view of the abstract gravity of the crimes provided for in the new norm and the legal good that the legislator wants to protect here, which is that of a procedural truth that can be polluted and attacked as little as possible especially by the public officers who in the described conducts mislead the investigations or the ascertainment of the truth on very serious facts for the life of the Republic, we continue to think that with the occasion of the introduction of this new legislation it would be appropriate that the perpetual interdictative measure would be deserving of acceptance by this branch of Parliament. We will see if the House wants to have a second thought because, I repeat, it would not be an absolute novelty and therefore at the level of constitutional sustainability we continue to think that it would have been possible to support it. The proposal made in this House, through another amendment, on the proposal to double the prescribed time limits for the crime of misdirection, has also been rejected because the rapporteur has pointed out to us that there is indeed a reform of the criminal procedure which provides for various formulas for extending the limitation period. However, I believe that if we had approved the rule that would have provided for the doubling of the prescribed terms for the crime of depiracy, even in the course of coordination in the future, any possible legal discrasia could have been dissolved. With these doubts about the text, which will be done in time to correct, I confirm the favorable vote of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u134	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the draft law is the clearest proof that, when the majority is not conditioned by the Government, technical solutions can be found to achieve unanimity. This shows that we in the opposition can also make a significant contribution to the drafting of rules when it is given the opportunity to discuss and evaluate the objectives of the norm. We found a crime of our own together. I do not want to repeat myself here, and I would just like to focus on some aspects that have emerged in the debate and which still leave doubts in some. This legislation creates greater deterrents than acts of deviance that are not secret or covered by secrecy, Senator Mussini. They've been spotted in the investigation. Then, it is a question of identifying, precisely taking into account judicial experience, a criminal responsibility of greater seriousness than that applied to date in order to have a greater deterrent of deviances. Dear Senator Giovanardi, Senator Corsini has been misled. Each of us is free to continue to say that the investigation is wrong, that a further investigation must be carried out. There's no doubt about that. I can intervene in the newspapers or with a book and argue that a particular investigation or that the judgment of the court or court of appeal is wrong. We are not intervening on this. We, under Article 2, intervene in the event that, going before the public prosecutor or the delegated judicial police, they voluntarily declare themselves something different from the truth or make false testimony in court. Having also knowledge, since I am a member of the 'Moro Commission', of secret acts, I am kept secret and, therefore, even if I were heard, I should never say secret acts, nor should I ever use them for any campaigns to support my argument. These are the rules set out in Article 2. I, for example, am still convinced of certain things and lived in Milan when Piazza Fontana broke out and I still have doubts despite the fact that judicial investigations and convictions have been carried out. That does not mean that I will not be able to express myself; that is absolutely not true! We must always have the freedom of thought and the freedom to express a different idea as the cornerstone of our Constitution. What I can't do is make an artificial and deviant account of reality at procedurally determined moments such as the stage of investigation and judgment. Dear Senator Giovanardi, on the massacre of Bologna I think that perhaps there has been a mistake in the condemnation of Fioravanti. But that's why you want to condemn them? No way! This law aims for something else. Let us ensure that public officials do not intervene in the investigation phase and do not try to divert the attention of the prosecutor from the search for certain lines of investigation, right or wrong that they are. One thing is criticism and another is the intervention to deviate. We have had deviant episodes, but we must not confuse them. When we recorded in some proceedings concerning massacres and other deviant acts, they were sanctioned differently. Those deviant acts today become derailment, but nothing changes compared to the current situation. The only real change concerns the greater seriousness and the greater identification of the concrete behavior that can determine the crime of depiracy and, therefore, determine, as a result, a deterrent and a abstention of the public officers from such behavior. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u137	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this bill, which finally puts the criminally relevant conduct of misdirection in our code. I should like to thank Mr Bolognesi in the Chamber and Senator Lo Giudice here in the Senate who, even in this legislature, presenting draft laws with different signatures, both of Members and of Senators, pushed for this very important result. Ladies and gentlemen, the history of our country is clear. The massacres have worn out. I remind colleagues of Piazza Fontana, Piazza della Loggia, Peteano, Bologna, Ustica, the abduction and killing of Aldo Moro, the massacres of 1992, in Capaci and Via D'Amelio, those of 1993, in Rome, Florence and Milan. Denying is a mistake. Colleagues, we are not dealing here with the opinions that each of us has about these massacres. We are not dealing with the journalistic or historical reconstructions of the massacres. There are committees of inquiry that have worked, and some work is still under way, as is the case with the Moro Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are simply dealing with the criminally important conduct that hinders, impedes and deviates the course of justice, from investigations to debate at all procedural stages. This is what we are dealing with, because a democracy must be able to have within it some political dynamics even burning and conflicting in some historical moments. But we must never use the instrument of massacres to try to conditioning and divert the course of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, even in terms of social dynamics, at times there are very strong conflicts on this important level of democracy. Even in this case, however, the massacres must never become an instrument of "regulation" of social dynamics, even conflicting, present in our country. That is why we have built a criminal case. We hit the public officers or those in charge of public service, because within the State never a servant of the State must take a road that can prevent the criminally important reconstruction of the ascertainment of the truth. Of course, we also hit ordinary citizens, with aggravated circumstances participating in this hateful crime. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we can vote in favour of this measure. Noting also a broad convergence, finally our country in the Senate has found the right way. We hope that the House will soon approve this text, as we are doing here in the Senate, even in the coming weeks and days. There are times when the country is still questioning and this approval can be a reason for satisfaction. The Democratic Party has always opposed the secret of state. We are not afraid to declare it here and to fight for it to be deleted. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u138	We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. Mr Capelletti (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the unified text of the draft law no. 1627 and 984, in the amended text, with the following title: "Introduction into the criminal code of the crime of fraud in criminal proceedings and depiracy" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). In view of the time, the further items on the agenda will be referred back to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u141	FAVERO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to remind you of a priest who has given much to the territory, but I dare say to welfare, to socialism. Today we approved in the Senate the provision on "after us," of which Don Egidio Marazzina was a pioneer, because he has been ahead of time. Unfortunately he missed; however, before the illness was right of his very strong physicist for the second time (and of course he did not make it), he managed to see his dream realized, what for the disabled, for the children who progressed with age, there was something after the death of the parents, that there was someone who cared about them. In his youth he was a working priest, he was a mason; on the occasion of the first wave of immigrants in Biella he arranged the reception and hospitality for immigrants, he founded social cooperatives in the popular neighborhoods. He had started there and already there was the seed to make disabled people work within cooperatives and to include them in the life of the community. Then she created a family home in the parish, where a girl down was welcomed, who was entrusted to him and to the social worker Paola; later this child became a girl and now she is a working woman. Thirty years have passed since then and thanks to the determination of Don Egidio there have been conquests; in 2003 it constituted the "after us" to launch a path of social promotion of people with disabilities in the contexts of normality. I read only the letter that was sent at Easter, long before he was missing, in which he greets everyone and says: I would like to make a small addition to the President's wishes because this may be the last time I write to you. Then he says that the disease had manifested itself again and continues as follows: I am very happy to see that the project in which with many of you I have believed in these years is coming to life, because some guys have begun to live the independent life experience four days a week. Not only that. As you will certainly have seen on TV or in the newspapers, our government is passing a law that goes just in the direction that we have started. For this I thank the Lord and wish all parents the courage to look at their children as adults, discovering that in each of them God has put wonderful things that we must learn to see and bring out. To many dads (because he was Loredana's father for a long time) and to all parents, to the many Don Egidio who strongly wanted there to be the "after us" but also the "during us," I dedicate the approval to the Senate of the law. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u144	FILIPPI (PD). Mr President, football for Italians - and perhaps not only for them - is the most beautiful sport in the world, for young people of course, for whom it is the world of success and affirmation, but also the context in which hopes and anxieties are often projected and sometimes even anger, frustration and despair. Whether you like it or not, football and sports justice sometimes take on an importance that crosses the boundaries of the sports chronicle and end up becoming an occasion for disputes and clashes between typhoseries, which often involve also the Forces of Order. For this reason it is important - I dare say fundamental - that the verdicts on the ground are consequences only of a supremacy or greater luck of one team on the other and above all that, net of human errors, always possible, the principle of impartiality of arbitration is guaranteed, because this is an indispensable condition and necessary guarantee of legality and correctness. So it was not - I have to say once again - for the team of Livorno Calcio, engaged in the last game of championship in the cadet series, in the direct challenge with Lanciano for access to the play outs with the Salernitana of Lotito and avoid direct retrocession. It happened that, due to a phallus plately nonexistent of the goalkeeper of Livorno, a rigor was granted and expelled the goalkeeper himself. Less than fifteen minutes to the end and Livorno won easily for two to zero. The result was thus reversed in a few minutes. Now the case wants that the sport justice, taking note of the unfair behavior of the player, has rightly imposed two days of disqualification, for phallus simulation, to the player of the Lanciano who had obtained that penalty determining for the outcome of the game. I believe that arbitration and the verdict must also be taken into account in a corresponding way. I would point out, moreover, that the Lanciano Calcio had already been sanctioned for serious administrative irregularities with the loss of five points, then inexplicably reduced to two on appeal. Because of the delicacy of the implications that the affair can raise and in recommending the utmost attention to all those involved, I have deposited today - and I inform the Presidency and the House of this communication - an interrogation addressed to the President of the Council as Minister for Sport, calling for a prompt response and a subsequent intervention. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u145	We will see from this first aspect of the ex post moviola in this House how this will go.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u148	VACCIANO (Mixed). Mr President, with this speech I would like to ask the answer to an oral question, the 3-00221 of 2013, which concerns the situation of the railway section Terracina-Priverno Fossanova, which has been closed since 12 September 2012. Some might wonder why ask a question almost three years ago, but the explanation is very simple. On yesterday's day Minister Delrio, intervening during an event held in a hotel in Terracina, in support of the candidate mayor of the Democratic Party - but this is clearly a coincidence - basically confirmed millionaire appropriations that should serve the solution, among other things, of that long-standing and deplorable situation, which I reported to the Government as early as July 2013. The same orientation has the statements made in the same seat by the city council member to the infrastructures of the Region Lazio Refrigeri: Do we have a train that stops due to lack of security? No useless promises. We tried to understand, consulted the crisis unit of Palazzo Chigi, we did a project with RFI, and decided: that route must be traveled, it is useful and sustainable. And again: "Politics speaks with acts" and therefore remains silent until it can give guarantees. Well, I am extremely pleased to learn this information through a party event. But it would be necessary and correct, in order to remove the doubts of the misthinkers who could invoke the classic pre-election boutade, to have it formalized even in a more appropriate forum, perhaps in this Parliamentary Assembly. I therefore renew my request that the Government respond to my question by officializing its intentions, because otherwise, by paraphrasing the words of the Councillor Refrigeri, we could say that politics remains silent until the election campaign begins. [[Applause from Senator Montevecchi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u151	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to ask the answer to the urgent question 4-05846, which I have tabled in the past days, on the slanderous and unfortunate to say the least idea of closing the hospital ward on the island of Procida. This island has risen to the fore in the last few days not for its well known beauties, but for the fact that it has been rightly crossed by many demonstrations of protest of the procidian population, disdained, precisely, and quite rightly, even in a sacrosanct way, for the truly wretched idea, contained in the hospital plan, to reduce strongly the hospital garrison, reducing the number of beds from nine to three, imagining only a minimum first aid and no longer diagnostics. Procida is an island and, therefore, is disconnected from the mainland. You have to cross the sea, of course, when a person is not well, and you understand well how it is really foolish and unbelievable, in a situation like this, not only not doing what had to be done, that is, strengthening the hospital garrison, but the opposite, even weakening it. There has been some really minimal, unfortunately, opening in the last hours, also following a just and sacrosanct mobilization that, moreover, in addition to the procidents has crossed the web, with tens of thousands of messages of solidarity. I would like to say in this House that this matter must be dealt with immediately: it is not possible to reduce the hospital in Procida, which is why we ask with great force, together with the citizens of the island, to leave the hospital as it is; indeed, if possible, to improve it. We are talking about an island that has 10,000 inhabitants, that already are not few, during the year, and that comes to have many thousands more in the summer months, of course, having a load of tourism fortunately significant and important. Resize the hospital on that island seems to us to be a completely senseless choice. Therefore, the person who made it must quickly change his mind, because it offends not only the citizens of Procida but all the people of common sense of this country. [[Applause from Senator Verducci9.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-635.ana.u152	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.38 p.m.
