ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.36 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 5 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00482 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mattesini and other Senators, 1-00508, tabled by Senator Stefani and other Senators, 1-00509, presented by Senator Bianconi and other Senators, 1-00521, presented by Senator Cardiello and other Senators, 1-00535, presented by Senator Blundo and other Senators, 1-00548, presented by Senator Romani Maurizio and by other Senators, and 1-00552, presented by Senator Panizza and other Senators, on the international abduction of minors. I would remind you that at its meeting on 7 April the authors presented the motions and the debate took place. I would like to inform you that the G1 agenda has been submitted, signed by the signatories of motions 1-00482 (text 2), 1-00508, 1-00509, 1-00521, 1-00535 and 1-00548, which have been withdrawn accordingly. The relevant text is distributed. I call on the presenters to explain the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u5	Madam President, I would like to speak because I want to stress that we are talking about an absolutely important issue such as the international abduction of children and how our state is intervening on this, trying to further improve its commitment, primarily in the interests of children who are suddenly taken away from their relationships and their daily lives. The broad debate of the previous sitting and the postponement requested by the Government have led to a particularly important outcome. In fact, as the President said, today we have deposited a unitary agenda. This is a very important fact which testifies to Parliament's sensitivity and, above all, shows that important choices have been identified in the unitary text. [[Brusio]] Excuse me, colleagues. [[Recalls of the President]] I realize that sometimes the silence of words is worth more. I was saying that the fact that this is a unitary agenda is important because it indicates Parliament's sensitivity, but also the Government's willingness to take even stronger action. I would like briefly to explain the commitments we have proposed. Meanwhile, it is good to remember that the competences in the matter of child abduction concern three ministries: justice, internal and foreign affairs. Since 2009 a task force has been set up between the various ministries and we hope that it will also be strengthened in its role of timely and constant relationship with the families involved. In order to facilitate the relationship between the task force and families, we expect a member of the Government from among those of the relevant ministries to be entrusted with the coordination of the task force itself. We also call for the work of this body to be made an annual report to Parliament, because it is good not to forget this issue; we must follow it step by step, in close relationship and in support of the work of the Government. We know that at present one of the difficulties Italy encounters in its relations with other countries with regard to the execution of judgments and the support of activity at the borders in order to avoid the exit of the children taken stems from the fact that there is no specific crime regarding the international abduction of children. We identify, therefore, without automatism, the foreclosure of the application of generic circumstances to Article 574- bis of the penal code and the possibility of carrying out interceptions or protective custody, which also facilitates the prevention of the subtraction itself. The other important element concerns the support for the approval of Article 7 of Community law 2015, which provides exactly for the possibility of legal aid in relation to the issue of international child abduction. It is also important to remember that many countries ( 93 countries) have signed the Hague Convention, but also that many others have not signed it, making everything more complicated. Much is said about Islamic countries, but also about others, such as Japan. We therefore ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to work to facilitate the conclusion of agreements with States not party to the Hague Convention, precisely to facilitate the return of minors. The other commitment addressed to the Government is to take action in favour of a coordination initiative between national legislation on family law and to continue to promote in the Community every useful initiative to improve communication between the European Ombudsman and the central authority of the Member States. Among the last commitments there is that to continue to send - as we are already doing - to all Italian embassies in the world, also as a solicitation, the operational indications on the initiatives to be undertaken in case of subtraction. The mechanism also commits the Government to intensify border control, so that no minor is taken away. The other commitment, exquisitely political (but we believe that it is a very important element, that can facilitate the connection and the meeting of the child or the child taken away and their return), is intended to include on the agenda of the government's work, in every international meeting, a political meeting with the countries concerned by the abduction of minors on the issue of minors contended and to find a priority moment in the agenda itself. The last issue - but not least in terms of importance - concerns the need to promote supranational legislation (on which we are working, particularly during the revision of the Brussels II Regulation), a review of the current wording of Article 13, which is often used by countries that do not help the return of minors, as this article provides for exceptions to the return of the child. And since the Brussels Rules of Procedure are being revised at the moment, at this ascending stage we are calling for a rewording of Article 13 in such a way that there is an obligation, for example, to define the obstacles, which are not currently foreseen. I have concluded, Madam President. Thank you all for your attention. I really hope that the Government's opinion on this agenda will be favourable and that the vote will be unanimous, not to say that we have simply adopted an agenda. What interests us is that it is, like so many others, the instrument so that what each of us has proposed finds - as it has been up to now - a concrete response; making sure that those children can regain the unity of their families and that they can see guaranteed the right to have affective relations with their father and mother. But above all, this agenda must encourage Parliament to focus increasingly on the issue of minors, on which too often there is inattention, as is the case at the moment, since we are chatting so much. [[Brusio.]] Children, children and teenagers are a priority in this country and the G1 unitary agenda gives a signal that is hopeful. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u6	I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask her to give her an opinion on motion 552 and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u7	Madam President, I would like to thank the senators for the work they have done which has led to the preparation of a joint text on the subject of the kids who have been kidnapped. It is an important issue on which the Government, in the light of this unanimous request of the Senate, intends to commit itself, so it gives a favourable opinion on all ten items on the agenda signed by Senators Mattesini, Bianconi, Panizza, Romani Maurizio, Blundo, Cardiello and Stefani. Compared to motion 552, at the first signature of Senator Panizza, who addresses the issue of missing children, on the first point of the device the opinion is opposed while it is in favour of the second point, subject to rewording, which I read: "to start, within the framework of the further initiatives already undertaken, a monitoring activity aimed at countering, on the Italian territory, the exploitation of minors by criminal organisations". [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u8	I ask Senator Panizza if he accepts the proposal for an amendment made by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u9	Of course, Madam President, also because this morning we met with all the other proposers and compared to this motion, which brings to the fore the issue of children that is no longer known (there is talk of over 5,000 only in Italy and 26,000 throughout Europe), we have agreed a text in which the Government is committed to monitoring the phenomenon, and therefore, as far as possible, to tackling it. It is a subject of particular importance and urgency, a drama in the drama; therefore, I thank both the Undersecretary Chiavaroli and my colleagues who have signed the motion for a resolution for the sensitivity shown and for having agreed to share its aims.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u10	Therefore, it accepts the deletion of the first point of the device and the rewording proposed by the Government of the second point.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u11	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). That's right. I have already tabled a new text which has also been signed by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u12	We greet the students and students of the Istituto Tecnico Industriale - Marie Curie - Naples. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u13	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u16	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I have just announced that the Group of the North Legacy will vote in favour of the unitary agenda on the international abduction of minors, and that we fully accept the wording, both in the premises and in the commitments, as we ourselves have contributed to its drafting. On the contrary, we welcome the fact that, despite the various motions proposed in this regard by different political groups with different ideologies and cultural backgrounds, we have all found ourselves sharing the objectives that we want to achieve with regard to this complex problem, recognizing its existence and the great difficulty to face it. In fact, as a Group of the North League we had already proposed a draft law precisely to modify the relevant rule contained in the penal code in order to make effective investigations and effective sanctions against those who steal children by taking them abroad. It is a phenomenon, this, that to hear it so seems something sporadic. In fact, there are a lot of cases and you probably can't even get enough of them. It is an increasing phenomenon, among other things, due to the increase in migratory flows because very often, colleagues, the subtraction of the child takes place precisely when the relationship of affective type breaks in couples belonging to different States and races, with great differences also sociocultural of the countries of origin that have different cultural and traditional matrixes. Among other things, the difficulty arises also because in many countries where the child is taken there is also the possibility, according to national legislation, of being able to bring with him his own child, perhaps helped by legislation different from the Italian one that allows to have a protection. It is recalled, however, that many cases take place precisely with escapes to African countries and countries in which Islamic law applies. Let us also remember that in the legislation, both at national and international level, the superior interest of the child is emphasized and we are not just talking about an exquisitely legal diction because "higher interest of the child" means that when there is a conflict between parents who have separated, they have left, and where everyone, of course, writes to himself the right to bring the child, to care for him and to make him grow in his own way in his own country, it must be remembered that surely what must be evaluated is only the welfare of the child. This fundamental principle has been mentioned several times in international legislation, but it is hoped that this legislation will also be effective in practice. What has been seen and which emerges, among other things, also from the experience of the police that actively follow this type of complex situation, is that there is a lack of incisiveness of the existing legislation. There is a problem with diplomacy, as well as a problem with timing, because the time when you can possibly get a sentence to get your child back home is so dilated that it certainly does not benefit the child. There are also difficulties in international conventions that have not been signed by everyone. There are many countries that have not adhered to these conventions. Let us remember that the Hague Convention of 1980 itself has not been ratified by almost all countries of Islamic religion and by countries of the Far East that therefore do not feel absolutely bound by the conventions that provide for the modalities of return. There are difficulties that become concrete and require all of us to make a deep reflection. Today we come to a unitary agenda, but we hope and ask that it not just be a declaration of intent, and that it be put into practice in actual action. Let us also remember that there are also difficulties within the Hague Convention of 1980, in particular with regard to Article 13, as has been pointed out in the same premises as on the agenda. As we can see, in Article 13 there is even the possibility of blocking the return of the child whenever there are situations defined as intolerable or dangerous. The problem is what is meant by this expression; therefore, there is a risk that this article - as it has happened - will be used in an absolutely presumptuous way. In our legislation, and precisely in Article 574-a of the Criminal Code, a possibility of subtraction is envisaged, but it is not possible to guarantee effective and sufficient protection against the child. Already the placement of the article, which is not included in the chapter dedicated to crimes against the person or individual freedom, but in the category of crimes against family assistance, suggests that the protected property is not the minor, but the family. Already the location creates doubts and misunderstandings about the application of the institute. But the great difficulty is that the criminal penalty provided for there, i.e. a maximum of four years of the edittal penalty, means the inapplicability of fundamental institutions in the investigation phase. In fact, neither environmental telephone interceptions nor the application of protective custody would be allowed. Already the government has approved a whole series of measures that avoid custody in other cases; let alone this! That is why we agree with the commitments set out and planned on this unitary agenda. It is also very important to include the task force; it is regrettable to use English terms in a country where we should speak Italian, but it is difficult to translate it in any other way. The important thing is that there is an institution, a body that manages a form of cooperation between all the institutions involved in these complex procedures, with bureaucratic aspects, among other things, very difficult. Important is the commitment, which we share - and for this reason we will vote in favour, to review the regulatory scope of Article 574-a, hoping, requesting and claiming that it is included in the category of crimes against individual freedom and against the person rather than among the crimes against family assistance, increasing the penalty to allow, as stated above, the possibility of investigation. It is also necessary to encourage the extension of the conclusion of agreements to States not party to the Hague Convention, so that cases of abduction of minors brought into States which have not acceded to the Agreement can be resolved. Finally, it is important to point 8 on the agenda, which we very much agree with because in the end it deals with a subject of the North League's own in recent years: the need to step up border controls. The border has been regarded as a legacy of ancient cultures and tribes, but here it is again important. The frontier is a barrier; it must be a control system, and not just a situation full of holes. It is therefore necessary to check whether there are children who are being taken away. For this reason and for those we have already mentioned, we agree with the revision of Article 13 of the Hague Convention and declare the support of the entire Lega Nord Group on the unitary agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u19	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, on behalf of my Group I am voting in favour of the unitary agenda that I have signed and the reworded motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u22	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank the other co-signatory senators of the individual motions for resolutions for their availability. I would also like to stress the commitment of the Undersecretary Federica Chiavaroli, who coordinated us in our work this morning. I am also very pleased that, both in item 1 and in item 2 on the agenda, we have planned the action of a task force to which parents can address themselves, providing that a member of the Government will be its leader and the main coordinating figure to confront. In the motion that bears my signature, I also requested the presence of a coordinator at European level, the so-called European Ombudsman. The reference figure of the Italian task force will also be called to coordinate with this European Ombudsman and will be a further strengthening of the aid in the path. I must say that I also very much welcome what was said in point 10), with reference to the rewording of Article 13, because I see that many foreign nations often find it difficult to bring a child back to Italy for fear that the other parent might use violence and take it as a mere commodity of exchange. My Group will therefore vote in favour of the G1 agenda and I thank everyone again for their work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u25	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, this House does not always write beautiful pages of politics and above all there is not always such a broad and heartfelt sharing. Today we write a beautiful page of politics. Today we give those people and families, who no longer know where their son or daughter is, a sense of great protection. The State today tells these families: I am at your side, I protect you, I will make the journey with you. Up to now, in an extremely professional way, the Ministries have used their skills and responsibilities to put pressure on other countries that held Italian children in an illegal way. Today, with this act, which has become a commitment for the Government, we take a further step: the step of a responsible Government, of a responsible State, which provides a reference point that will act as a coordination. We know that good will often and willingly walks on the legs of responsible people; but together you can do much more. And that is what we believe and that we ask the three competent ministries, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, so that together they can find solutions and push more to have their children back home. Normally they say, what do you want an agenda to be? It's a written act, a commitment, something that you forget. No. This agenda is peremptory, it places stakes and assigns precise tasks. I am referring to coordination, to guidelines for prosecutors, the first to welcome the desperate appeal of desperate parents; I am also referring to guidelines for our embassies, so that they too, representing Italy, can be careful soldiers and can put the right pressure, where possible, to bring these children home. This Parliament, therefore, today writes a good page and it will also become a source of pride every year to see how this new and renewed commitment by Parliament will bear fruit. We are therefore very happy with this and my Group will vote in favour of this motion. Madam President, allow me to make a remark, a thank you to the Undersecretary Chiavaroli. You write this beautiful page with us today in this House and many parents will be grateful for it, because you represent the State today and give a favourable opinion on this new action. It is a good start for you to take care of minors, children who have disappeared and been illegally taken away, children to whom we are giving a hope of returning home today. [[Applause from the AP groups (NCD-UDC) and PD and Senator Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u28	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the relationship between parents and children is a precious, special bond that should be preserved and protected in any situation. Much has been said about this during the adoption of the draft law on civil unions when, through an attempt by the Government and the majority (which, moreover, miserably failed) to introduce into our system the institution of stepchild adoption also for homosexual couples, reference has been made on several occasions to the need to protect such an important link, highlighted also in today's hearing of Minister Lorenzin and which we in this House today subscribe even more with the approval of the motion on the agenda. The subject that we have finally begun to deal with since last Thursday is certainly thorny, because the pain experienced by all those parents who are unexpectedly taken away their children from their spouse or spouse cannot be ignored and requires a maximum commitment and as much as possible shared by the political forces present in this House. It is in this direction that we have been working since this morning to arrive at a motion as much as possible shared. The objective of our debate and of the motion that we are about to approve must be only one: the protection or the rapid restoration of the parent-son bond. The suffering suffered by parents who suffer from the international abduction of their children by their spouse and the costs they incur for the subsequent research operations are untold and unquantifiable. Parents who are victims of these dramas almost always act alone and cannot rely on a reliable and efficient institutional reference, therefore suffer the fragmentation of the action of the various institutional bodies competent in the matter, which in fact limit the effectiveness of the investigative activity of most of the prosecutors and judicial police present on the national territory, with very few exceptions such as that of the Province of Vicenza. In this sense, we welcomed the commitment made to the Government in order to provide for the strengthening of a task force, which the children's association had already wanted in 2005 and 2006. But the task force, which met every fifteen days before, began to meet every two months. The acquisition of news was not facilitated by the work carried out by the task force itself. Therefore, the commitment made in point 2, to include a figure within the Government, with a member of the Government taking charge of this coordination and that reports annually to Parliament, seems to us to be a decision of common sense and duty towards the suffering of these families. The greatest problems are in fact represented by the difficulty, very often insurmountable, that the parents involved in these tragic events find daily in communicating with the institutions, or in being constantly informed on the evolution of these cases by the competent bodies in the matter. So, as well as strengthening the task force, we are satisfied with the inclusion of a path aimed at a timely and constant relationship with the families involved. This point, specifically asked by us of the 5 Star Movement, is considered very important, because families cannot remain in a limbo and in an absolute unawareness of what is going on and what is happening, even if the task force is working for the finding of the minor. It is right that families are constantly informed and it is important that there is constant information to parents on the evolution of the investigations, as well as on the initiatives put in place for the solution of the case and the difficulties found that slow the successful closure of the case with the return of the child to the country of origin. To have information is always a right and it is always something important for a parent who lives in the anxiety of being able to embrace his child, of which he cared from birth until the day of subtraction. In the same way it seems inevitable to proceed to the strengthening of the sanctioning framework, beginning to consider as necessary the insertion of the case of kidnapping of the child in the context of crimes against the person and personal freedom, as well as the raising of the edittal penalties that, being currently four years old, are insufficient for the implementation and effectiveness of some test instruments such as environmental and telephone interceptions, indispensable elements to identify the minor taken and bring him back as quickly as possible in his country of origin. We will work on this, and we are confident that there will shortly be a discussion of the draft laws which call for unanimity, again in this case, as was done on the motion, the amendment of the legislation. Moreover, the dialogue in the action of the operational bodies in order to ensure real coordination between the various institutional bodies responsible for this matter, both with a view to preventing the phenomenon and with a view to guiding and supporting the persons involved, in the primary interest of children who are illegally transferred or detained abroad, is indisputable, and therefore acceptable, in view of the necessary overcoming of fragmentation. As far as commitment 8 is concerned, we hope that border control will be understood as a timely response to complaints or warnings and not a restriction on freedom of movement, so that this motion will remain aimed at protecting minors and not at other purposes, which we have often seen included in excellent measures which only apparently seemed to be the case. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u29	I ask the House to turn down the buzz because it was very hard for both the senator to speak and, for those who wanted it, to listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u32	CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, today is a beautiful day not only for the Senate Assembly but above all for the many associations that deal with children who have been kidnapped. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u33	Excuse me just a second. Do you mind keeping your voice down even when you talk to each other? You don't have to raise your voice that much.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u34	Please, Senator Cardiello. CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). I was saying that today is an important day for families, parents and children who have been taken internationally. When Parliament wants to, regardless of the flags and political stakes, we come to talk about fundamental points where we all find ourselves and I thank the Government and the colleagues who have made the motions presented come together in one. The problem of international child abduction goes back to ancient times, so much so that the 1980 UN Convention and the 1981 Hague Convention provide for action to combat child abduction. So let's start with assumptions that go back in time. Despite the efforts made and the interventions taken by the Government and the Ministry of Justice in all these years, there are still many unsolved cases of kids taken away, whose families do not know where they are. Still recently a program broadcast on private television reported the story of a Ukrainian lady who had two children with two different fathers and had run away with the children and, when the fathers went to the country where she was to see their children, the police denied them the opportunity to meet them in front of the Forces of Order. This means that the problem exists and persists, and it is therefore important and fundamental for this House today to ratify a united motion, signed by all parties and without political flags. Forza Italia will vote in favour of the unitary motion under discussion, fully transposing the points in it. I would also like to point out, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a draft law in the Commission, tabled by myself and a colleague of the League, amending Rule 574-a, which I call on President D'Ascola to schedule. This crime, in fact, envisaged in Italy, sometimes in foreign states is not taken into account because it is a crime that provides an edittal penalty up to a maximum of four years and when the general mitigatings for this crime are granted it is not possible to proceed to intercepts and carry out investigations of particular importance. The commitment by the Government and colleagues who signed the motion must therefore be to schedule the amendment of Article 574-a in the Justice Committee. Another important point is that a fund for legal aid for families should be set up. Very often minors are taken abroad, taken from one or the other parent, because they begin a consensual or judicial separation and, during the separation, the parent who thinks he is the child's foster care runs away with him. There is therefore a need for greater attention from the magistrates when they make a separation report. We also need resources to establish a fund dedicated to legal aid for victims of abduction, as requested in the motion under consideration. Often, in fact, many families cannot promote or continue legal proceedings because they do not have the economic possibility to have an international lawyer and a lawyer in Italy. Sometimes we need two lawyers, as well as translators for translations done abroad and in Italy. In some families resources are sometimes not really there. What is included in the G1 agenda? The establishment of a fund for the legal aid of the State and the coordination of three Ministries, as requested by the Forza Italia Group. That is why, together with all the other Members, we are signing the G1 agenda, on which we will vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u37	FILIPPIN (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, of course I would like to join in the thanks given by my colleagues to the work carried out in particular by the Undersecretary, Senator Chiavaroli, who, with the cooperation of all the others, has helped to draw up a joint motion. The subject of the so-called kids who have been taken - or, rather, minor disputes - may seem to be an absolutely marginal subject. In fact, according to the data provided by the Italian Central Authority to the Department of Juvenile Justice, the active and passive subtractions carried out in the years between 2010 and 2015 are equal to 849. They are, therefore, 849 children of Italian nationality brought and illegally held abroad by a parent, despite a rule of law or a judgment that provides the contrary and entrusts parental responsibility to the other parent. During the last sitting, and today too, the many international conventions concluded on this subject have been mentioned. The Hague Convention of 1980 and Regulation (EC) No 2201 of 2003 implementing it within the territory of the European Union were recalled. All the various interventions have emphasized that there is an objective difficulty in the implementation of the Convention already in the same States that have signed it, let alone when it comes to States that have not done so, which, therefore, do not in any way facilitate the return of the child. Why did we want to discuss these motions today and in the last sitting? I would like to tell you one of the many stories that have led us to do this: I am referring to the story of Rebecca and her father. Rebecca is 12 years old and since she was eight her father knows nothing about her. Four years ago, her mother managed to take her away from the protected community she was in and illegally return her to Belarus, where the child literally disappeared. The judicial measures of Italian justice, including those who criminally condemned the mother, were worth nothing. The trials, appeals, causes, travels, requests and petitions of the father were worth nothing. He is a father who, except for a fleeting contact on a social network, immediately closed, does not know what happened to his daughter and can no longer even get a visa to enter Belarus, where her mother took her and hides her. There is a word in the name of which we wanted to hold this debate: Loneliness. It is a double loneliness, that of parents who have lost their children and can no longer have contact with them, flesh of their flesh and blood of their blood. It is a void made even more terrible by the awareness that, somewhere in the world, that child is there, lives and perhaps misses the parent. Then there is a second loneliness, that of the parents who feel abandoned by a State that, at least apparently, fails to give concrete implementation to those return measures that have cost so much effort and, often, the use of all their economic resources. That is why this unitary agenda, which unlike the customs of this Parliament, is very concrete in its commitments and, in particular, in those it addresses to the Government, is finally intended to give a path, a security and protection to those parents who may be permanently deprived of their isolation. My fellow Members have already mentioned the points that have been highlighted on the agenda. I would like to remind you in particular of one: the request that the issue of children who are disputed or withdrawn accompany the agenda of the Government whenever this goes abroad; whenever a representative of ours should, for reasons related to his institutional mandate, have contact with that country. It is also through the strength of our country that those Italian children will be able to return home. I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u38	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, after the vote on the motion for a resolution, the G1 agenda will be put to the vote, for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u41	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u42	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 552 (text 2), tabled by Senator Panizza and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Mattesini, Bianconi, Panizza, Romani Maurizio, Blundo, Cardiello, Stefani, Romano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u43	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00421 (text 2), tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators, 1-00456, tabled by Senator Tomaselli and other senators, 1-00541, tabled by Senator Galimberti and other senators, 1-00542, presented by Senator Council and other senators, 1-00547, presented by Senator Zizza and other senators, and 1-00553, presented by Senator Panizza and other senators, on the stabilisation of ecobonus. I call Senator Galimberti to explain motion No 541.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the 2016 Stability Act in paragraph 74 of Article 1 extended until 31 December 2016 the tax deductions of 50% for the renovation of buildings and the purchase of furniture and large appliances of energy class A+ and the deduction of 65% for the energy redevelopment of existing buildings, the so-called ecobonus. This measure is the result of a rule born in 2006 and extended annually by Parliament which, depending on the need for quotas, has modified it to the present wording which has extended its areas of applicability and contributions. It is clear and clear that this has not allowed citizens to plan these huge expenditures in the family budget, forcing them to chase the deductions of the moment from time to time. At the end of the year, the benefits for certain sectors will be eliminated and others will remain in very small shape. State intervention needs to be stabilised, so that businesses and households can have a broader time horizon, so that expenditure can be programmed. This would also be a certainty for the economy, which would no longer go sobbing, but following a path of linear growth. In this context, I would like to remind all the bystanders that a measure of total rupture and contrast to the crisis was the home plan of the Berlusconi Government, initially criticized and reproved by the left, but then adopted and extended until 2015 by the totality of the Regions, even those of the left, by virtue of its beneficial effects, which allowed to pave the way to the ecobonus. Indeed, the data show that all the sectors involved have benefited from it and have been able to respond effectively to the effects of the crisis. The goodness of this measure is demonstrated by the report drawn up by the Centre for Economic Sociological and Market Research in Buildings (CRESME) and by the Department of Studies of the Chamber of Deputies on the effects of tax deductions, at 50%, for building recovery and ecobonus, at 65%, for energy redevelopment, from which it emerges that from 2008 to 2015 the incentives covered more than 12.5 million interventions and activated investments for 207 billion euros, of which 178 billion euros have concerned the building recovery and 30 billion euros the energy redevelopment. The highest value over the entire period of application of the incentives was recorded in 2014, with investments in construction of €28.5 billion and €1.9 billion in furniture. With regard to the large household appliances sector, the positive thrust of the incentives introduced by ecobonus allowed, in 2014, a growth in the sector of 3.7 percent and 8.3 percent in 2015. These are the data that derive from really effective measures and not from a miserable zero comma something. These are cost-effective measures for the whole system, which move investment, create employment, combat evasion and create revenue for the State. Introduced, that, as usual, the Renzi Government - what according to propaganda lowers taxes - increased in 2015, not only thanks to the extension of the scope, but above all because of the increase from 4 to 8 percent of the withholding tax, fortunately without affecting the number of interventions of the Italians. Well, temporary measures are no longer enough: we need a forward-looking policy, a programme of structured incentives that will allow Italians and businesses to plan effective interventions to ensure greater support for the growth of our economy, but above all to improve energy efficiency and the protection of our climate, paying particular attention to the strategy of research and innovation in the energy sector, in which we estimate an average annual turnover of about 5.2 billion euros. To this end, of course, we cannot ignore the conclusions of the Paris Conference on Climate Change (COP 21), in which both the European Union and Italy have made important commitments for 2030, with a reduction of at least 40% of emissions compared to 1990 and an increase of 27% in energy efficiency. Certainly Italy has done a lot and is not far from the objectives set. However, this is not enough: it is necessary to continue on this road, paying attention also to what has been highlighted by the European Commission, which outlines a gloomy picture for our country, where in the energy sector the share of national production has lower values than the European average; the energy mix differs from that of the European Union to 28 countries, with a larger percentage of gas and the absence of nuclear; the dependence on solid fuels is higher than in the European Union to 28 countries; the retail electricity prices for domestic users are generally above the EU average; the costs for the network, the system charges and the taxes weigh respectively 17%, 23% and 13% of the final price to the consumer; the buildings absorb about 40% of the total energy needs and more than 75% of the real estate is characterized by low or very low energy efficiency. Those just exposed are worrying data, describing a country unable to compete on an equal footing with its neighbours and much less with the most advanced economies. The time has come to fill this gap and, above all, not to be given homework by Europe. It is time that the Government committed itself to making effective use of both the economic resources and the tools at its disposal to create a more competitive country. Nevertheless, I am aware that efficiency and effectiveness are not exactly in the DNA of this Executive, as evidenced by the three electoral rounds that this year will engage Italian voters. With regard to the so-called referendum on drills, allow me to express my disbelief before a predominantly ideological battle initiated by some political factions who, on the one hand, declare themselves against the production of energy from fossil fuels, but then try to block seven billion investments, not to consider the repercussions on employment and induced, directed precisely to the production of gas that would guarantee that differentiation of energy sources for which our country committed itself precisely in Paris. For these reasons, with the motion at my first signature, we commit the Government to consider, from the Document of economy and finance, to make permanent tax deduction to 65% of the expenses incurred for the reduction of the energy needs for heating, the thermal improvement, the substitution of the winter air conditioning systems, as a form of incentive for the realization of multi-annual interventions; to carry out a reconnaissance of all the forms of support (tax deductions, white certificates, capital contributions, contributions of European programming and other incentive profiles), in order to manage eventual overlaps of the types of intervention. I'm almost done, Madam President. Thirdly, we commit the Government to identify standard types of intervention for emission control and energy saving, establishing premiumities based on the relationship between costs and benefits, with particular attention to the work that connects the installation of electronic consumer control devices; to simplify the regulation of the activities of energy service companies; to send an annual report to the competent Commissions of the Rooms. I conclude with the hope that, at least for once, this Executive will want to detach itself from the usual opposition-majority contrasts and not only act for its own gain, and want to accept our proposals for what they are: reasonable and aimed at ensuring greater savings, growth, investments and above all better living conditions for Italians. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u45	I call Senator Girotto to explain motion No 421 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I must speak today, but I wanted to remain silent. Today we are finally discussing a structural measure, which will enable citizens to improve their energy bills. Let's remember that, in fact 100 the total energy needs in Italy, 40 percent is used precisely by the buildings, which on average waste as much as 60 percent. In discussing this measure, we are talking about something that will enable us to reduce our dependence on energy imports by 20%. Let me also make a reference to the referendum on Sunday, which grabs 3% of gas and 0.8% of oil, while here we are talking about a measure that would allow us to reduce our dependence on energy imports from abroad by 15 to 20%. If anyone has doubts about measures and efficiency, I recall that gas consumption has been reduced by 22.4% compared to 2005, and oil consumption by as much as 38%; therefore, efficiency is our real oil field. It's more than drilling at sea! Finally, we are discussing a structural measure on health. We all remember the smog emergency of a few months ago; we remember that the main cause of pollution, smog, for which we pay a tribute of 80,000 deaths a year, is the air conditioning of the buildings; in the second place the incidence of the industries and the third that of traffic. However, who knows why, when you are in emergency smog you always think about reducing or blocking traffic. At last this is a measure that is not yet favorable to the dominant lobby, to few, large, very large enterprises. Conversely, it is a measure that can exploit two whole supply chains and hundreds of thousands of jobs: the efficiency chain and, of course, the production chain from renewable sources, which are currently agonizing. So let's finally talk about new jobs; let's talk about it because we also have the precise numbers here. The CRESME study in 2014 confirmed that they were created, thanks to an ecobonus - despite hiccups - 283,000 direct jobs and 424,000 with the induced. Let us recall once again the forecast given by the agreement between Confindustria and the trade unions, which even speaks of more than 1.5 million jobs. Finally, therefore, we are talking about a medium-term industrial policy measure; an industrial policy - this unknown one - which must focus on the pillars of conversion and restructuring. Let us start with this conversion: no more wild cementification but recovery of the existing one: from industrial to civil construction, to public one; energy conversion with the transition from fossil sources to renewables; environmental conversion, with a more efficient management of the agroforestry heritage; conversion of petrochemicals, with a gradual transition to a real, clean and truly sustainable green chemistry; conversion of polluted sites through the reclamation and conversion of the very concept of waste, of the type of waste that must become secondary raw materials: all measures that, combined with each other, would certainly create more than a million jobs. And instead we are to remember, as we did last month, that this year the Solarexpo fair will not take place, after seventeen years, and this gives the measure of how much these supply chains are agonizing. We remember that today, with one hand we promise (with this motion), while for some time we remove with the other hand. We have taken away a lot of these supply chains with the reform of the charges in the bill; a reform that has overturned the concept of progressiveness and which, therefore, has discouraged all the interventions of energy efficiency and of present and future self-consumption. What's the point? Someone goes to the States to be beautiful, to show a beautiful example of a power plant to renewable sources when we go in the opposite direction: we do this reform of the charges; we do the reform of the white certificates, which will no longer support small energy efficiency interventions, aimed mainly at building; we make a new thermal account that does not solve the problems of the old one and continues to leave unused the resources allocated. But let's go back to seeing what stabilization would mean, since we have 18 million homes in Italy that need maintenance and that are, fortunately from the working point of view, from the North to the South. Stabilization would, therefore, allow 14 million families living in condominiums to cut their energy bills by half, to reduce them significantly. All these families, up to now, have been excluded since an annual ecobonus did not allow them to operate effectively. Finally, this is a measure which agrees with the whole Parliament, since the motions that have been tabled come a little from all over Parliament. Mine was the first one on this subject and was signed not only by my colleagues but, a little bit like a leopard, also by many other representatives of the parliamentary arc. This measure, also in the declaration of the majority party, is explicitly described as a win-win measure, so you don't need to be great English experts to understand that it is a motion that will not lead to losses for anyone. What else can we add? It is to be approved as soon as possible and it is necessary to ensure that the Government implements it immediately, including it in the first useful legislative act. Italy cannot afford to wait any longer: let us finally provide it with a medium-term industrial policy measure to which our companies will be able to respond immediately, since, if asked, they all respond that the first measure they need is stability in order to be able to return to planning investments. So companies will be able to go back to planning investments, families and businesses will be able to go back to planning their efficiency operations. Let's remember that even a well-known study company has stated that they are measures that pay back very quickly, even calculated in seven years, so they are measures that would pay back and then give a very substantial saving (in this case the Nomisma calculates it in 15 billion per year only for the two million older buildings). Now, we have waited two years to get to this motion and we hope that, since the pro Total amendment (an amendment that favoured a single company) was adopted in one night, this measure, if it is included as an amendment in the first useful legislative measure, will be adopted equally quickly, also because this time it would not favour a single large enterprise but millions of ordinary citizens and businesses. Let us not add more and proceed as quickly as possible. [[Applause from Senator Ciampolillo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u47	We greet the students and students of the Liceo di Scienze Humani (Liceo di Scienze Humani) "Vito Fornari" in Molfetta, in the province of Bari. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to make a few comments on the whole question of energy in our country but trying to be on the substance of what we are discussing. Our motion has as object a mechanism that has represented a significant flywheel for the growth of the gross domestic product, for the support of important productive sectors, starting from the building one, and for the attainment of higher levels of energy saving in our country, that is the ecobonus. The most recent analysis data on the effectiveness of ecobonus, prepared by CRESME in collaboration with the Chamber of Deputies and published last October, show the positive impact over the years of this facilitation on economic growth thanks to its considerable employment effectiveness, precisely at the time of the strongest crisis in the building sector. The ecobonus incentives, added to the incentives for building renovations, generated in 2014 alone investments of €28.5 billion, amounting to almost 2 points of GDP, of which €24.5 billion are related to recovery and €3.9 billion to energy redevelopment. Incentivised work in the period January-August 2015 amounted to €15.9 billion, which, although in slight decline compared to 2014, still represent a significant figure. But already the first data of the beginning of 2016 are much more comforting and positive than 2015. The benefits generated by the facility for energy redevelopment of buildings and incentives for building renovation obviously also have a positive impact on employment. According to CRESME's estimates, the investments activated by these facilities were worth, in the period 2011-2015, an absorption of 1,163,255 direct employees, corresponding to an annual average over the period of almost 233,000 employed; in 2014 alone 283,200 direct jobs in the construction sector and 424,800 total employed, including the induced; while in 2015, the direct employees recorded were 234,000. In the years of greatest crisis in the construction sector, ranging from 2012 to 2014, the investments activated, amounting to more than 75 billion euros, have been worth more than 750,000 direct employed and more than 1,128,000 total employed. To understand the importance of these facilities, the estimates made show that, in the event of failure to implement ecobonus and the facilities for building renovations, the investments that would have been lost, without IRPEF relief, would have been EUR 15.9 billion out of a total of EUR 28.4 billion, while the loss in terms of employment would have amounted to more than 158,000 jobs. If a broader period, ranging from 2011 to 2014, the failure to implement the facilities would have resulted in the loss of 47.1 billion investments and the effects on employment would have resulted in a reduction of more than 468,000 jobs. In the absence of the bonus, the beneficiaries who would have invested in energy redevelopment and construction restructuring would have fallen to 52 percent in 2012, 50 percent in 2013 and 44 percent in 2014. I would also like to focus this House's attention on environmental benefits due to the presence of ecobonus. The 2015 annual report on energy efficiency, edited by ENEA on the basis of data available at 30 April 2015, highlighted the positive effects of ecobonus in terms of energy saving and positive impact on the environment. In the period from 2007 to 2013, ENEA calculated a primary energy saving of 0,913 megatep, equivalent to over 9,900 gigawatts per year of final energy, of which more than 1,650 gigawatts per year resulting from incentive interventions in 2013. These data highlight the significant impact in terms of energy saving and less polluting emissions into the environment, which can result from the implementation of interventions, such as the shielding of buildings, the change of windows and the use of efficient and technologically advanced heating systems. Energy efficiency has therefore become increasingly important over the years and is the main development key for new operational models in a globalised economy. Therefore, investing in energy savings in buildings and smart grid models is crucial for a new economic development of the country. A policy of energy saving on the Italian building stock, activated on 12 million buildings, is able to generate private economic resources, putting to income the more than 20 billion annual energy that instead is wasted. If we consider that energy needs in the European Union have fallen by about 20%, we can say that this is definitely a way forward. Building ever more habitable buildings that can improve the quality of life of their occupants and integrate with the surrounding environment, in the light of excellent environmental performance and a reduction of harmful emissions into the atmosphere, help the business of the building industry, instead of sinking it. Just today - it is important to remember - an important exhibition has opened, that of furniture in Milan, which has long spoken this language. And it is for this reason that the Democratic Party's motion basically calls for stability, starting from the year 2017, to the tax relief of 65% planned for the energy redevelopment of buildings. The stabilisation of this facility is a choice of industrial policy that would meet the favor of both the economic system and the taxpayers (as we have seen from the data). In the past year, investment slowed down and orders started to decline decisively. It is quite clear that the lack of certainty about the decarbonisation of future efficiency investments is a brake on taxpayers' investment decisions. We also ask that the facility for the energy redevelopment of buildings be included in a complex regulatory framework on tax concessions, taking care to guarantee in any case an effective advantage to the interventions aimed at the redevelopment and the security of the assets, keeping to this end the current regulatory parameter that provides for a difference of 15 points between the aforementioned facility (the so-called ecobonus) and that recognized for the ordinary renovation interventions. We also ask that we consider the possibility of remodulating the timing of the payment of the incentive, times that may not be fixed, but increasing with the amount of expenditure, in order to make the tax deduction convenient even for micro-interventions. We also ask to extend the application of the rehabilitation facility by including permanently, in the list of interventions for which it is possible to use it, the energy redevelopment of the heritage of public housing (as already started with the law of stability 2016) and buildings owned by ONLUS, the redevelopment of entire buildings, the anti-seismic consolidation of buildings that fall into seismic risk areas, as well as the anti-seismic consolidation of instrumental real estate, including hotel and accommodation facilities in general. Finally, we would like to extend the application of the facility to the construction of new buildings, in case the criteria of green building or zero or almost zero energy are strictly followed, as well as to promote the legislation in a widespread and even more incisive way on all the media, starting from the new Document of Economy and Finance just approved by the Council of Ministers, so that these facilities can really represent an important flywheel of development, as has happened in previous years. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u49	I call the Senator-Council to explain motion No 542.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u50	Madam President, we have finally come to discuss these motions. It was some time that we had worked to try to understand in what terms a stabilisation of ecobonus could put this country in a position to be at the forefront with regard to renewable energy issues and with regard to the issue of the entrepreneurial capacity of a country that has seen the decline over time that was a green economy that has worked very well in the past years. It was also clear that, in the face of the continuing economic crisis, investments in buildings, energy saving, renewable sources, innovation and research and, more generally, in the green economy can and must represent an important opportunity to restore momentum to the Italian economy, allowing to combine the objective of greater competitiveness and modernisation of the country with the need to adopt more sustainable models of development from the environmental point of view. The 17th legislature was also confirmed on several occasions, not least in the context of the examination of the so-called Kyoto Annex to the 2015 Economic and Financial Document, of the path towards a low carbon dioxide economy, which for Italy is fundamental to the achievement of the commitments made at international and European level. And it is precisely at European level that the adoption of the climate and energy package has given positive results in respect of the objectives of the Kyoto Protocol; we are among the countries that have reached them first and the latest Eurostat annual statistics show the continuity of the positive trend: in 2013 in the European Union carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel combustion decreased by 2.5% compared to 2012 and our country has helped to achieve this result. The European Council of 22 and 23 October 2014 reached the framework agreement for energy and climate policies for the period from 2020 to 2030. Also in this case already in the last legislature we have started with a series of measures that have allowed our country to be a bit 'avant-garde, but then we have seen everything collapse with a series of measures that have characterized the first part of the XVII legislature, when some actions of normative character have not put the section in condition to excel as it happened before. In 2014 legislative decree no. 102 establishes the fundamental role of energy efficiency as a strategic tool in the current European scenario to address challenges such as the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the revival of economic growth, the creation of new jobs and the increase of the competitiveness of companies intervening in different sectors considered able to seize the opportunities offered by energy saving, building and transport passing through the productions. As we use to say, here falls the donkey, because all these passages that had potentially foreseen and stabilized even for a short time have seen their ability to maintain production and employment suddenly decrease, just in the light of a series of laws that we have approved (I speak in the plural but clearly we as a Group have not supported them) and that allowed only a reduction of costs for the State, reducing incentives in a sector that we considered and consider absolutely strategic. We had adopted and certainly had to take initiatives to ensure the establishment of a clear and comprehensive regulatory framework to protect investment in the renewables sector, both to reduce dependence on energy imports and to protect legitimate business expectations. This has not exactly been done, Madam President, even taking into account the positive effects on the economy and employment, given that in the renewable energy sector alone, European Union companies have a turnover of EUR 129 billion and employ more than one million people. To achieve these objectives, it was necessary to carry out operations aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises, to relaunch the investment and construction sector, to improve energy efficiency, environmental sustainability and production processes, to streamline and simplify the authorisation procedures for plants using renewable energy sources. They were strategic objectives to be taken into account; they are now as never important for the revival of investments in technological innovation and the reduction of energy consumption and the increase in efficiency but seem at this point discreetly in doubt. In our motion we have tried to highlight how the 55% tax relief (now 65%) has proved to be by far among the most effective anti-cyclical measures activated in recent years, with positive effects on the country's budget, as it not only represents an important support for the revival of consumption, but also contributes to the emergence of the submerged in sectors considered strategic for economic recovery such as the construction one, which is absolutely in great crisis today. Our country also boasts a thriving industry in various sectors closely related to energy efficiency. In recent years there has been a significant increase in energy storage systems produced by renewable energy plants, with particular reference to the solar source, which have given rise to a market in which Italy is at the forefront with many leading companies at European level. Starting from all these considerations, the housing sector plays a key role in energy efficiency policies that are certainly strategic, since the buildings are ascribed to about 36% of total energy consumption; therefore, the Government is bound to make this rule permanent, compatible with budgetary constraints, which concerns the issue of incentives. We have asked the Government to commit itself and to ensure that this House can vote on a motion which would enable a sector to recover and stabilize and to ensure that investments are safe and secure for at least quite a few years. This uncertainty has created an escape of companies in the sector, with a drastic fall in employees and, therefore, in employment. Only in the wind are estimated about 4,000 people who have lost their jobs. Yet, we call for a loud voice and try to encourage the Government to take all appropriate initiatives, including financial ones, aimed at the regulatory stabilization of the current tax facilities for the energy redevelopment of buildings; and, at the same time, to find the appropriate financial resources to be directed in support of measures for the reduction of the number of annual instalments related to the recovery of the expenses incurred by taxpayers (natural persons or owners of business income) that have made use of in these years or make use of tax deductions for the energy redevelopment of buildings. We also ask that the Government undertake to encourage, within the framework of policies aimed at increasing the growth of renewable energy sources, the realization of battery storage systems installed inside buildings in combination with a plant for the production of electricity powered by renewable sources. Last but not least, we call for the procedure for access to tax deductions to be publicised. This is the object of our motion, a document that we consider valid, in the premises but also in the device, and certainly able to put in condition a Government, that perhaps has not been very careful in the last measures concerning energy, to reverse and also a mea culpa, putting in condition also those who are listening to me from the benches of the Government to reason with serenity regarding an argument, that of the energies, that never as in this period is absolutely of primary importance. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u51	I call Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri to explain motion No 547.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, if we had the habit of devoting ourselves a little more and a little better to measuring the quality of legislative production, we would probably get a substantial improvement in the quality of our laws, in the awareness that making good laws is in itself a prerequisite for the functioning of a democratic state and is also a good method of recovering the relationship between the square and the palace, after a serious short circuit has irreparably mortified it. I listened carefully to the speeches of my previous colleagues and who, in support of a complete and precise illustration of the various motions on the subject of our interest, have brought precise data, which confirm how and how much the legislative activity carried out since 1998 until, more or less, today on the side of fiscal measures in support of a policy of development of the building sector and, at the same time, of an activity for the reduction of CO2 emissions into the atmosphere has presented an absolutely positive outcome, with benefits from an economic point of view. It is established that the economic balance between the benefits paid and the tax revenues (IRPEF, VAT and IRES) has been significantly positive. But not only the economic effects, but also the social effects, have been important for the positive impact on employment, and in terms of health, for the problems of reducing CO2 emissions into the atmosphere with obvious positive effects on the health of the population. The investments made in these years have been measured in approximately 207 billion, 178 for the building recovery and 30 for the energy redevelopment. Overall, more than € 12.5 million of interventions have benefited employment. Tax incentives for building recovery and energy redevelopment have led to two million jobs in the period 2008-2015, and this consideration is all the more important when considering the particularly sensitive period in the face of the crisis, which has certainly benefited from a strong boost in employment. These data are clearly and incontrovertibly stated in the hearings held in the Environment Committee here in the Senate (but also in the House). The documentation produced - I am referring to that of CRESME, Confartigianato and Confindustria - and the elaborations of the Studies Offices both of the Chamber and of the Senate have confirmed that the period under consideration, calculating the lower revenues related to the interventions of improvement of the energy efficiency and considering the share of the revenues for the State deriving from the consumption and the investments determined from the income additional to the new employed, has determined a positive balance for the State of approximately 10,5 billion euros, that could rise to little more than 15 billion euros understanding the effects induced for the benefit of the families and the enterprises. 18.15 p.m. (Followed by ambersio lettieri). I believe that these data are encouraging and should encourage the Government to do what is required with the motion that Conservatives and Reformists put and propose to the attention of the Government, which reaffirms and recovers the meaning, with the same reasons, of the motions outlined up to now. Basically, we believe it is necessary to go beyond the contingency phase, which mainly leads to the extension of tax benefits, making structural the facilitation measures that we reappear under the name of ecobonus, starting immediately. Another aspect for which we want to commit the government and which we believe is in perfect synergy with the tax measures and the recovery of 65% of the costs incurred for the energy efficiency work of the buildings is the application of the reduced VAT rate for energy service contracts intended for domestic use. I would like to point out that, to date, there remains the uncertainty that has arisen between operators in relation to the VAT rate to be applied. Some public entities have received different interpretations from the relevant ministries on the application of the VAT rate: in some cases a rate of 10% has been applied, in others 22%. This difference in orientation should be corrected, favouring an unambiguous interpretation of the rule. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the problem I have just raised has also been explained to the House, to the extent that it has become a binding point of request which has entered into an agenda, since it has been provided for in the legislative decree implementing Directive 2009/27/EU that a simplified and uniform VAT was expressly provided for in energy performance contracts. It is therefore logical that, where the reduced rate of 10% for public administrations is applied, this measure should also be extended to the private sector in order not to create unjustified unequal treatment. These are the demands we make to the government. In view of the reasonableness that they contain in terms of compatibility with the state budget, but also in the awareness of the data that I have illustrated (on whose reliability I call the Government to make the assessments in relation to the documents deposited in an official way with the competent Commissions), I believe that there are all the reasons why the Government can express its benevolent opinion showing an adequate attention in support of the economy, but also of social cohesion and the improvement of the levels of health protection in our country. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u53	I call Senator Panizza to explain motion No 553.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister Morando, the facilitation measures for energy redevelopment and renovation of buildings, years after their entry into force, do not seem to represent a cost to public finances. Indeed, the calculations made by CRESME show that the application of ecobonus and facilities for building renovation have generated, throughout the reference period, which goes from 1998 to the present, a clearly positive revenue for public finances. In short, the facilitation measures for the energy redevelopment of buildings and the renovation of buildings are a win-win operation, that is able to generate positive effects for all those involved: State, businesses, taxpayers and the environmental system. For this reason, we believe that the stabilisation of the facilities for energy redevelopment of buildings would be an industrial policy choice which would benefit both the economic system and the taxpayers. With paragraph 87 of article 1 of the law n. 208 of 28 December 2015 (the law of stability for 2016), the deductions for ecobonus of 65 percent have also been extended to the self-employed institutions for the popular houses, however called "details," recognizing the strategic importance and the high social value of the interventions of energy redevelopment and renovation of buildings carried out on the assets of public housing. Moreover, the wording used by the legislator to indicate the persons involved in such assets does not indicate (as indicated in paragraphs 89 and 90 in tax matters) also the entities having the same social purposes as the autonomous institutions for public housing, but established in the form of companies and meeting the requirements of the European Community legislation on in-house providing and established and operating on 31 December 2013. The above wording, so to speak, cannot and must not penalise those who manage and intervene on the assets of public housing for the mere fact of being established in the form of a company. As regards the thermal account, the system already provides for rewards for global interventions on the building and in case of deep innovation, but it would be appropriate to provide for additional rewards in case of interventions on historic buildings or in case of application of energy-environmental protocols, which consider not only the reduction of energy consumption, but also, in a broader sense, the use of renewable energy sources and the saving of other resources, such as water or land (e.g. LEED systems, GBC systems or similar). Finally, the current legislation provides for the possibility to deduct interest on loans contracted to build or renovate the first house only in the case of building renovations aimed at transforming the buildings, excluding restoration and conservative restoration, reserved, for example, to tied buildings, which are the most expensive and delicate ones. On the basis of all this, the motion calls for a commitment by the Government to: give stability, from the year 2016, to the tax relief of 65% planned for the energy redevelopment of buildings; include, among the autonomous institutions for public housing, however called, which can benefit from the tax relief of 65% for the costs incurred for interventions on buildings of their own properties for public housing, also the entities having the same social purposes, established in the form of companies and meeting the requirements of the European Community legislation on in-house providing and established and operating on 31 December 2013; introduce additional premiums with regard to the thermal account; shorten the time for the recovery of the investment, in the event of intervention in public-private partnership, in particular if action is taken on high-value buildings, such as school buildings and public housing assets; extend the right to deduct interest payable on loans for renovation or renovation work, also in the case of interventions referred to in point (c), paragraph 1, of Article 31 of the Act of 5 August 1978, No. 457 of the Constitution approved in Article 6 of the Constitutional Law, adopted in accordance with Article 3 of Legislative Decree 2001, No. I realize that the commitments requested in this motion are vast. I have taken advantage of this to include a whole series of requests that also come from the territory and that, if you go along, would give further impetus to the interventions of energy redevelopment and, above all, would improve the energy quality of our buildings. Among these, I would ask the Government to pay particular attention to include among the autonomous institutions for the housing of the people also those formed in the form of society because it is a unique and absolutely minimal case within the Italian panorama. The Government in recent years has shown great sensitivity to this issue. The figures presented on tax recovery are significant - I am referring to those relating to the emergence of the submerged - and I believe that this brings us to particular attention. I therefore hope that the Government will be able to grasp these sensitivities which I outlined in my motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u55	I declare the debate open. Senator Dalla Zuanna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u56	Mr President, previous speakers have already pointed out the importance of ecobonus building within the framework of the energy, environmental and economic policy of successive governments since 2007. Today's parliamentary debate, although late, is an important opportunity to reason on the different points to be reported to the Government, also in view of the law of stability and budget for 2017. More specifically, I would like to stress here some points in motion 456, signed by many Senators of the Democratic Party, some of whom, moreover, are also found in the other motions on the same subject, hoping for cross-cutting approvals and as much as possible shared. The first point is the request to stabilize the ecobonus, or at least to make its multiannual extension, so that it becomes more stable in the national tax system. It is true that an annual budget has the advantage of prompting users to speed up their work. However, complex interventions on large buildings - i.e. those of greater efficiency in terms of energy saving - often fail to run out over the course of a year and thus escape the possibility of easy access to the incentive. Secondly, the timing of the incentive should be revised, which may not be fixed - now it is ten years - but increasing with the amount of expenditure, in order to make the tax deduction more convenient for micro-interventions as well. A third important point concerns the extension of ecobonus, with fiscal mechanisms to be defined, including to individuals other than households and public housing buildings. In fact, energy efficiency is currently particularly lacking for other buildings, such as those owned by non-profit entities. Although such interventions could not directly use tax leverage, their cost in the medium term would be zero, as many interventions have pointed out. The ecobonus could also be extended to the construction of new buildings, when criteria of green building or zero or almost zero energy are strictly followed, especially if they are built in place of the cube of existing buildings with low energy efficiency. Finally, it is essential to organise more systematic independent studies on the effectiveness of this tax measure, which highlight its advantages, in addition to any disadvantages, by adopting different points of view. I therefore hope that in a forthcoming legislative measure the ecobonus will be better articulated and segmented, thereby making greater use of the economic and environmental pressures that may arise from this measure. It is a shared impression that ecobonus has been one of the most important and successful fiscal interventions of the last decade of government. Among other things, it has given oxygen to many companies, in a time of deep crisis in the building sector; it has improved the quality of life and reduced energy costs for many families; it has allowed huge savings of fossil fuels: all benefits achieved at virtually zero cost. It is therefore worthwhile to better chisel this measure, improving it, extending it and stabilizing it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u57	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today I am particularly pleased to be able to speak on this subject, and not only because I am a supporter of the stabilisation of the ecobonus, but above all to highlight the effects that this initiative has had on the Italian system of real economy. Undoubtedly, the positive aspects are not only resumable in terms of energy saving, respect for the environment and health, but also for the indirect effect it has generated on the economy and employment, at a financial stage as difficult as that of recent years, with an anticyclical intervention of real stimulus to the real economy. The ecobonus represented and represents a positive signal and - I would say much more concretely - a sigh of relief for businesses as well as for professionals: it is undoubtedly an effective measure, which allows us to pursue the road of energy redevelopment, with a view to efficiency and savings, while stimulating investment and growth. At a time like today's, where private investment in the building and plant sector is stopped due to lack of demand, state incentives are likely to become the only engine that can really get our economy back on track. It is therefore understandable that there is a call for the government to keep the ecobonus active over the years for interventions aimed at achieving energy saving. Suffice it to say that the component of the demand related to renovations and energy efficiency has been a buffer to the heavy downsizing of the real estate sector after the financial crisis of 2008, so much so that, in 2013, about 67 percent of the entire value of the production of the sector was attributable to maintenance of the existing assets. Moreover, for completeness, it is worth remembering that, from 2008 to 2015, fiscal incentive measures have activated investments of 207 billion euros, of which 178 billion have concerned the building recovery and little less than 30 billion the energy redevelopment. We are not talking about investments carried out by fiscal incentives, which have had an important impact on employment, which, in the above period 2008-2015, covered more than two million employees, with an average of 111,000 direct employees per year. I have done all this to remind this House that the right measures, i.e. those aimed at increasing the development of the real economy, must not only be supported, but also and above all encouraged. I think - and the figures show this - that the ecobonus instrument not only brings with it the positive aspects in the internal economy, but also represents a far-reaching adjustment in European terms. It is precisely these days that a debate is opening on the development of the framework strategy for the Energy Union, which aims to integrate heating and cooling efficiency into the Union's energy policies, through a series of actions aimed at eliminating the energy dispersion of buildings, at maximising the efficiency and sustainability of heating and cooling systems, and at integrating these systems into the electricity system and supporting energy efficiency in industry. I wonder, therefore, what better opportunity to promote and integrate European energy policies with national stimulus measures such as these? The same strategy identifies and suggests a series of actions to facilitate the renovation of buildings. For example, Member States are invited to review the legislation in order to find a way of sharing the economic benefits of energy efficiency between owners and tenants. In fact, in the case of rented property, the tenant's interest in investing in a better efficiency of a property not owned by him or her is limited or null, and the owner's interest in investing in it would not benefit immediately. I believe that one can reason on this possibility that the strategy suggests to us, reaching some conclusion. The strategy also encourages, in general, the use of renewable energy as well as the development of intelligent systems. Italy - and we can say it with a bit of pride - is already on the right track. The tax concessions contained in the ecobonus measures go in this direction. Investing in energy efficiency means investing in the future, a future with different aspects and potentials from the past decades. The world inevitably evolves at as fast a rate as it is demanding. Adapting to European standards means not only aligning with a strategy, but also and above all generating a social and environmental homogeneity common to all European citizens. In conclusion, attention to the environment, in all its forms, is expressed as an attention to quality building, which does not consume new territory but points to innovation, safety and beauty. Extending, confirming and remodulating ecobonus not only means reducing energy consumption and pollution, but also represents an advantage for both households and state coffers. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator De Pietro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u59	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u60	Mr President, there is a kidowatt that costs us less than everyone else and it's called "zerowatt," that is the kidowatt that we have saved. There are indirect costs, of which there is still too little talk and which have to do with human health, with climate change, with the costs for environmental migration - not only those caused by hunger and war - which are being imposed precisely for the withdrawal of fossil sources from those countries. Today we are analyzing how a happy intuition that the Italian legislator had many years ago, that of fiscally favoring the building renovations, has found its main road since 2006, with a significant increase also of the percentage of tax recovery made, in case of restructuring with the aim of reducing energy costs. Since then, the audience of the subjects to whom this opportunity can be offered has been growing year after year and the number of fiscally deductible interventions has been implemented, to which the ecobonus can be usefully applied. This testifies to an indisputable thing, to which everyone today has referred in expressing their relationship: it is a valid instrument that provides employment; it increases the active enterprises and their technological quality; it makes possible an industrial conversion; it implements the same research on renewables and on the various possible forms of efficiency, thus improving our competitiveness of Country, reducing much the costs of families and companies and making at the same time less serious the deficit determined by the balance of payments; it causes the energy necessity from fossil sources of the Country Italy. If the employment figures are true - and we cannot doubt this - it must be said that those 130,000 additional annual employees, registered over the course of these years thanks exclusively to the existence of ecobonus, also apply in terms of cost - for the failure of Cassa Integrazione and the lack of economic value for unemployment - the beauty of 2.4 billion per year, which add up at all costs - to the truth we have already heard - that they are on the balance of payments of our country in positive, despite the economic value in the field is burdensome for the anticipated tax deduction. I also recall the international commitment we have made with COP 21 in Paris, which we would like to become the certification of our seriousness, as an Italian Government and as a Parliament, as this is the main instrument for achieving that objective. We know that 80% of the emissions of buildings in the atmosphere can be reached and exceeded by acting on the levers of technological improvement thanks to the application of insulating agents in the floors and on the walls, with the replacement of windows or appliances (with the simple change of light bulbs or with a banal intervention on boilers and heat pumps). The potential, therefore, is enormous and probably - as has already happened for renewables - are further susceptible to positive future surprises, the result of research and innovation capacity of an increasingly green and interested market. The environment has a cost and it goes out of the market: the skeptics used to say a long time ago. Today this almost no longer expresses it, also because we know that environmental causes cause 84,000 deaths in Italy, 400,000 in Europe. And, therefore, the absolute value that has the sobriety and quality of living, moving and producing has become the queen way to use. Stabilising ecobonus until 2020 is what we are asking for today. It must be understood that the action activated since 2006 and then from 2016 - including anti-seismic safety - must be stabilized. Where possible, the ten years foreseen for tax depreciation in efficiency expenditure should be reduced; simplification and reduction of the number of forms of financing and incentive currently provided for in the same intervention, recovering, where necessary, funds on incentives and subsidies for the use of fossil fuels, promoting a climate change adaptation plan that makes the territories more at risk more resilient. Huge margins of improvement are given by the intelligence applied to the new deal that we can promote and outline. The intelligence and creativity applied to efficiency is our new paradigm, as the challenge we must grasp thanks to the unique will of the Senate to stabilize the ecobonus. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u61	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u62	Mr President, the original motions, in some cases, were presented during 2015 and therefore could not, by definition, take account of certain innovations - in some significant cases - that have been introduced on this subject by the law of stability in force, i.e. that for 2016, unlike other motions currently before our attention, which, having been presented more recently, take account of them. Just to give an idea of what I'm referring to, I can make it clear that the law of stability for 2016 provides that they can benefit from the deduction of 65 percent also the autonomous public housing institutions that, in 2016, will support expenses for interventions on the properties of their property, buildings for public residential use. Some motions contain in the device the commitment to the Government to do what is already present in the law of stability. Moreover, the law of stability provides that in the condominiums the deduction of the incapienti tenants can be sold to the enterprises that carry out the works, so that the possibility to realize that operation must not be lost using the incentive. This is, in my opinion, a little known and little practiced, but particularly interesting, which is part of the legislation in force. The law of stability, then, provides that, for the purchase of houses with high energy efficiency - I say this because many motions, rightly, urge the Government to commit to doing more by introducing other forms of facilities for investments in housing that make them even more energy efficient - it is possible to deduct from the Irpef of the buyer, in ten annual shares, 50% of the VAT paid in invoice, precisely, for the purchase of houses with high energy efficiency, that is, of class A or B, of new construction or restructured by the construction companies in 2016. Many motions call for something similar to be done when this forecast is already in force. And I didn't just say that to point out that we've already thought about it. Many of the demands contained in the motions go beyond these indications, but I think that we must take into account what is not the Government but Parliament - often it was parliamentary amendments - has already introduced into the legislation in force in this regard. Having said that, I would like to say at once that in this particular case the premises of all the motions presented are basically shared by the Government. There will of course be a comma or a word that the government would have formulated or placed differently, but the substance is that it shares them. When, in fact, we talk about ecobonus by associating it, as is done in the motions and as was done in the debate, with deductions for building renovations - often these are operations that house by house, building by building, go together in the choice of citizens and in the investments of our families - we are talking (here is the vice minister of the economy who speaks and not an expert of building renovations and not even of energy policy, and to do this you should have called another vice minister, another secretary or another minister) of deductions for building renovations and deductions for the so-called ecobonus. We are talking, that is, about the most important anticyclical measure of economic policy that has been in force in our country since 1998, when a rapporteur to the law that was then called financial, then relatively young and whose name I do not reveal but which can be found, presented an amendment to introduce deductions for building renovations in our country. You then understand that my self-consideration (which. As is well known, it is already not very low, as those who know me always say), in the face of the arguments developed in the motions that exalt this measure, it grows and reaches truly worrying limits. Having said that, and moving on to the challenging part of the resolutions - I have already said that, for the argumentative and presuppositional part, the Government shares all the motions - I would like to address a precise proposal to the motion-makers. Since then, i.e. since 1998 for building renovations, and then since 2006 for ecobonus, we have had substantially annual renovations, with very significant internal changes: the maximum of deductible investments, the volume of deduction, the number of years in which it is possible to make the deduction. These have changed, but the annual value has not changed. Why? It's obvious. To say that the rule is in force with such an intense facilitation only for a year pushes in that same year to concentrate the investments. And since we wanted to give this measure a strong anticyclical character, it has always been renewed for a single year. However, there is a "ma" that all motions present and raise, and that was last recalled by Senator Puppato. It is clear that we want to give an anticyclical connotation to the measure and, therefore, we understand the limitation over time. To give, however, as a limitation only one year, since the most demanding investment decisions involve a period of time and preparation and then longer execution, may not make them fall in positive under the umbrella of the deduction, because of this limitation of time. So, to make it clear, I came here tonight on behalf of the government to say the following. Since the Government recognizes this assessment as well, it agrees to accept the commitment, starting from 2017 - now the ecobonus is in force and there is no need to say it for 2016 - to stabilize that set of measures that we call ecobonus for a three-year period, and not forever, like all the motions - or almost all, for the truth - propose. Why, in my opinion, would the proposers accept this solution? Why decide today, from the economic point of view, that an investment such as that relating to ecobonus has a horizon more than ten years? Saying stability means forever, but do we have operators who need to know that in 2025 there will be ecobonus? I do not exclude that there is any case but, if we are talking about investors and families, the opposite is tending to be true. If I say today that it will be in force in 2025, I fear that those economic, social and environmental benefits, which the speaker deals with and means much more than myself, will not be achieved because of the delay in investment time. Another thing, however, is to address the issue of legal certainty. It is known that in a large condominium, where so many people and families have to be put together to make the investment and address the facilitation - each of us has an experience of a condominium assembly, which often presents traits of rissosità that makes it look like assemblies that are more known to us - such a decision implies a long preparation, because sometimes someone is not there and then it takes time to convince of the advantage and overcome the difficulty. For this reason I say that the Government intends to accept the proposal to stabilize for three years the ecobonus, contained in all the motions (some say until 2020, while others go beyond). It would be a real novelty to welcome for three years: the Senate of the Republic, taken note of the positive result achieved over the years, since 1998 - governments of all colors have passed - through measures of this type, commits the Government to stabilize the ecobonus for three years. In this case the government will say yes. If, however, everyone legitimately believes that this is the place to define the contours of a specific energy policy, advanced by each of the Groups with particular reference to the renovation of the buildings and so on and also to the ecobonus, (often not entirely clear in its relationship with the measure it proposes), then it is clear that I can also continue to propose that the motions make a politically very demanding gesture, which the Government accepts, and that is to stabilize the ecobonus for three years. However, I cannot help but say that I am unable to share the rest of the motion, thus confusing - in my humble opinion - the Senate's decision on the crucial point concerning this prospect. I therefore address this request in all sincerity, ready to take note that it may not be accepted and, therefore, to pronounce myself on each of the motions. Having already said that I agree with the premises of all the motions, as far as the device is concerned, I ask the proposers to limit it to the following sentence: "It commits the Government to give stability, for the three-year period 2017-2019, to the tax relief of 65% planned for the energy redevelopment of buildings." I propose that the motion end with these words, referring everything else to a later stage, which will inexorably be there, perhaps with a conversation with that component of the Government more competent to make judgments on tariff policy rather than on policy concerning the development of the industrial sector and energy saving instruments. Of course, they are all subjects that I do not want to reduce; on the contrary, I am even saying that they go a little beyond my personal competences and, therefore, I would have uncertainty in formulating opinions. I think that the thing I propose is so simple if it is accepted, but so important at political level that it should lead all the proposers to converge on it. Of course, if they do not, I will be prepared to express my views against (very often) or in favour of the rest of the motions, segment by segment, motion by motion. Honestly, I hope that the Senate will do what is called an act of directing the very significant government, such as what I have proposed to you. Last but not least, I am unable to accept, because the Government does not share them, proposals that concern a radical modification, in terms of shortening, of the actual recovery of the deduction, such as - for example - from ten to five years. Just the numbers you have mentioned and the extraordinary success of these measures show that the problem is not the duration of deduction, all the more so in a very low inflation regime. What is important is to be sure of the deduction and have the time to activate it through the investment, without the obsession of the end of the year. The government recognizes this as founded. Keep in mind that the financial burden of a reduction from ten to five years is very great and would therefore cause the Government, on this point, to make a negative decision. Personally, even if someone says that this should not be done, on behalf of the Government I have never accepted commitments that he already knows that he cannot honour for financial reasons and - I say this quite clearly - I will never accept them. The commitments I make are financially sustainable, otherwise I change jobs. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u63	Colleagues, in relation to the proposal made by Deputy Minister Morando on the possibility of reaching a joint text, I briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 18.58 and resumed at 19.12 p.m.) Colleagues, I would like to ask you a moment of attention because I feel that I have noted the desire to conclude the discussion of the motions before us. Without prejudice to the fact that the Government has expressed a favourable opinion on the premises of all the motions, it wants to know if the presenters accept the following rewording: "It commits the Government to give stability for the three-year period 2017-2019 to the tax facility of 65 percent planned for the energy redevelopment of the buildings". In this case, the individual motions will be voted on and, once this reformulation has been accepted, they will each have a favourable opinion. Taking note of the willingness of each of the presenters to accept the rewording proposed by the Government, let us proceed with the votes. At this point, I would ask you, if you would like to conclude this evening, to contain explanations of vote as much as possible. There will be no opposition from the Presidency to the delivery of written texts.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u66	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, the assessment of the Government's proposal has been timely, in the sense of accession, so that the Senate can give a clear and precise message in relation to the government's assumption of a commitment that we consider to be absolutely useful for the reasons set out in our speeches. Therefore, I announce the favorable vote of the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, of course that in the competent Commission will be recovered, discussed and addressed all aspects that cannot today be the subject of commitment to the Government. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u69	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, in line with what has been agreed with the Government, the Northern League Group is very happy to achieve such a solution. We agree with the previous senator, in the sense that we would be happy if there were the possibility of triggering a virtuous mechanism in the Commission on certain issues which were clearly explained in these motions, but which were not then evaluated for a practical issue as well. In conclusion, I am voting in favour of the Lega Nord Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u72	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I agree with the previous speakers. The Group for the Autonomies and all those who supported my motion agree on the text proposed by Deputy Minister Morando. I must say with great sincerity and frankness that this is an important commitment because three years of facilitation are many, especially for mountain areas, such as those we represent, which naturally benefit greatly from these interventions. On the other hand, the Government has also understood the strategicity of the extension of these investments that serve to turn the economy, improve the energy performance of the buildings and combat the submerged and tax evasion. We are therefore in complete agreement. On our part, too, there is the hope that the relevant Commissions will be able to address this issue in a more articulated way and that in that forum it will be possible to raise the other issues, from the extras - bonuses, to the autonomous institutions for housing, to the simplification of procedures, to the anticipation of installments. In any case, I realize that the commitment that the Government is proposing to us today is important, particularly for mountain areas and, therefore, for us, there is the greatest sharing of the decision to have the motion referred to this one point.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u75	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we are co-signators of the first-signed motion by Senator Girotto, of which we have agreed, and at this point we also agree with the Government's proposal. In the first-signed motion by Senator Girotto, the date of 2020 was proposed, but at this point, we are certainly in favour of the forecast of the next three years. I would also like to stress that, in my opinion, reflection and further work in the relevant Commissions, which have all just been referred to, will have to focus on a number of other issues which the motion had also put before the House. First of all, we need not only to simplify, but also to better evaluate the measures that further reward energy efficiency and determine all the positive effects that have occurred in recent years. The data are clear to everyone: there has been an absolutely positive effect from the environmental point of view, energy saving and the reduction of carbon dioxide. The updated data - I repeat - are before everyone's eyes and not only contained in the ENEA report. The so-called ecobonus has an absolutely positive effect from the economic point of view, because it has produced many jobs and - very important for our country - the emergence of black work. In the end, if we look at what was the surplus for the administration of the State, it was positive. This is, among other things, a classic anti-cyclical measure that perhaps we should have implemented more. For this reason, it is a good thing that we have been stabilizing it for at least three years, because - I repeat - this measure is really good for the economy, the environment and energy. If we had invested all the gifts made to oil companies in order to increase ecobonus, I believe that today we would have not only great environmental improvements, but also real jobs - these yes -. For all these reasons we shall vote in favour. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u78	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I welcome the call for a summary and I reserve the right to give the full text of the explanation of vote in order to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). We also agree with what has been said about the validity of this measure. We believe that the solution proposed by the Government to stabilize for three years and after considering the possibility of making structural intervention goes in the right direction. Our Group proposes to bring together the many benefits of limiting energy consumption from traditional sources such as improvement towards the environment and positive data for the start-up of employment, especially in innovative sectors. Alternative energy sources require research. So, the staff is also employed in this. There are these many aspects. With regard to the perplexity linked to the reduction of the revenues from the State, we agree to object that the tax recovery takes place over a long period (ten years). The immediate non-benefit is compensated by this duration. For all these reasons, the People's Area Group will vote in favour. Let's add one more: moving towards this type of efficiency of buildings allows you to carry out many interventions even on those already existing. This is for the benefit of the limitation of land consumption which, to be honest, is having different developments depending on the prerogatives that the regions have had to adapt their laws in urban matters. There are discrepancies in national territory. Therefore, we believe that the fundamental objective of limiting soil consumption is certainly allowed by these interventions. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u81	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, I would also ask you to give the full text of my explanation of vote so that it is annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. GIROTTO (M5S). I express my happiness because after three years we have crossed this line. It's an important step. It's certainly not the last one. Let me at least say that we have to engage the financial side. Since these measures are economically substantial, there is absolutely a need for financial support and, therefore, I call on all my colleagues to take action with the financial world, which has so far proved to be insensitive. I remember that there are financial products in the United States, which make double-digit, based on energy efficiency projects, while our financial institutions are far behind us. There will also be work to be done on tax incapience, which is another problem to be solved. However, I am definitely satisfied that after three years you will arrive at this result that will definitely give a breath of oxygen to the construction industry and, cascade, to the entire Italian economic chain. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u84	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will make a very brief statement, asking you to be able to hand over the full text so that it can be annexed to today's report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the latest ISTAT data, which indicate that Italy is in deflation, confirm the importance of focusing on the benefits of consumption, in particular if these benefits are directed towards the implementation of efficiency interventions. Just think of the data collected in the report by CRESME and the Chamber Studies Service on the effects of tax deductions at 50% for building recovery and ecobonus at 65% from 2008 to 2015. The fiscal incentive measures have activated investments of €207 billion, with an average of €11 billion per year. All the motions intend to extend further the ecobonus which, in the absence of extensions, would return from 2017 to the rate provided by the single text of income taxes, which is fixed at 36% and which has proved to be ineffective compared to the one currently in force. The country needs a long-term political vision, structured and that determines real and definitive changes, a real driving force. Italy must grow, not only economically: we cannot continue to move forward with bonuses or time politics. To achieve ambitious goals, planning is needed. Imagining the future means being inspired rulers: administering the present with bonuses commercials, not included in the system, indicates the inability to outline actions that see our country as the protagonist of an innovative path and environmental protection for future generations. For these simple reasons we support the unitary motion, in the sole commitment to stabilize the deduction to 65 percent in the years 2017, 2018 and 2019, with the condition to deal with all the other topics highlighted by the motions (which we summarize here: simplification, communication to the citizens, standardization of the interventions, management of the energy service company, analysis of effectiveness and coordination of the thermal account of the energy efficiency titles, and so on) in occasion of a specific deepening, that the parliamentary groups will plan in the short term. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u87	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly in order to declare the Democratic Group's vote in favour of the motions under discussion, which have a unanimous agreement, and also to express the reasons for political satisfaction with what is about to be consumed in the Senate Assembly on such an important issue, not only for energy policy but also for the country's industrial system. The Senate Assembly is in fact about to hand over to the Government, probably unanimously, an unpredicted commitment for the consolidation, in the next three years, of one of the measures that, in the last ten years - as recalled by Deputy Minister Morando and many colleagues, beginning with my colleague Vaccari in the illustration of the motion presented by our Group - represented a decisive flywheel for the growth of gross domestic product, for the creation of new employment and for the support of one of the oldest industrial chains and, at the same time, the most modern, effective and efficient in the country: the one linked to construction and its induced. The fact that we want to consolidate this measure is a sign of the attention of Parliament and the Government to a decisive measure of industrial policy, which can and must also be done in our country and which helps to consolidate such important productive segments. It is also a piece of that modern energy policy, which in recent days is receiving so much attention, with reference to the referendum, I think not always about it. In our country much has been done, in recent years, on the production side, to stimulate the energy derived from renewable sources: almost 40% of the electricity produced in Italy is in fact derived from renewable sources. Much has been done, therefore, on the side of competition between several components in the production of energy, but little, too little, perhaps has been done on the front of consumption. This measure has gone against the trend. While little has been done on transport (a lot can still be done on mobility, on cities), much, thanks to ecobonus and these fiscal incentives, has been done on the construction, efficiency and energy saving and civil consumption. We can do industrial policy in this country. Energy policy can be pursued with a view to the main source we have, which is energy saving and efficiency; it can be done with an eye to research and innovation. For these reasons, we will absolutely, with great conviction, vote in favour of all motions. We greet this unanimous vote as an important vote, which entrusts Parliament and the Government with one of the issues on which the resumption of lasting development for our country can truly be consolidated in the coming years. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u90	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u91	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We therefore proceed to the vote on the motions, considering that the premises and the commitment as reworded by the Government were accepted with a favourable opinion. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 421 (text 3), tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 456 (text 2), tabled by Senator Tomaselli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 541 (text 2), tabled by Senator Galimberti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 542 (text 2), tabled by Senator Council and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 547 (text 2), tabled by Senator Zizza and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 553 (text 2), tabled by Senator Panizza and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u94	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, yesterday the Council of Europe accepted the CGIL's appeal for non-compliance with Law No 194 of 1978, this time examining the discrimination aspect of medical personnel who choose not to express conscientious objection, thus helping to ensure an essential service to protect the right of women's health. This is not the first time that our country has been subjected to strong criticism because, not only does it not respect the law that has been given, after long years of battles in defence of the self-determination of women, but it also violates the principles that Italy has adopted through the numerous international agreements, among which two international pacts born within the United Nations on economic, social and cultural rights and civil and political ones, and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union of 2000. Let us also say that the lukewarm justifications of the Minister of Health which, he has already denied, has supported the use of old data, all the more so because the annual report that the Ministry delivers to Parliament expresses in words evaluations not supported by the data included in the tables of the report itself. How can it be argued that the right to access the techniques of voluntary termination of pregnancy is guaranteed against a percentage of gynecologists who object 70 percent on a national scale, with peaks in some regions even above 80-90 percent? We have 93 percent objectors in Molise; 90 percent in Basilicata; 87 in Sicily, 86 in Abruzzo. In general, numbers apart, Italy does not shine for the assistance to the woman, who in some cases is not accompanied with the due attention to a traumatic experience. Suffering is also felt in some large urban centres. Non-objectors have an average age of sixty years; there is no replacement precisely because the service is conceived as a neglect, certainly not as the aspiration of those who, after years of study and precarious, enter the world of work. In short, conscientious objection must be regulated in order to avoid that, as happens in Bari, when the only doctor does not objector goes on vacation, the service is suspended, but also to avoid that the few non objectors are reduced only to the interruptions of pregnancy. We can also say that abortion is an evil, but illegal abortion is certainly a worse evil, which exposes the woman to a huge risk. Conscience objection is acceptable in principle, but it must be an exception and not the rule. On several occasions I have asked the Minister, the Government in general and Parliament on this subject; I have presented draft law No 923, aimed at establishing a minimum proportion of non- objector staff in public structures; two motions, two questions. I think it is very necessary to start talking seriously about the actions to be taken to ensure that Law No 194 is actually implemented. Shouldn't we have put the patient at the center of our health care, or is our health always a medical-centric? Let's start thinking about this. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u97	I beg colleagues to stop at the center of the hemicycle to get away. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, last 22 November, with the so-called rescue decree banks, which partially transposed the bail in, 140,000 savers between shareholders and bondholders lost everything; many life savings. Only the subordinated bondholders are talking about about 300 million lost. The government does not foresee any refreshment in that decree. There are protests from savers outside the Chamber; there are also protests from the North League groups in Parliament. Then there is the transfer of the decree-law into the law of stability. After so many protests, there is a solidarity fund of 100 million, which is quite inadequate. In parallel with the resolution fund, the provision of arbitration is also born: a bad choice that introduces discretion because it still presupposes the establishment of liability within the bank's officials. The law of stability is approved; Prime Minister Renzi promises at the beginning of January that the game will be closed by the end of the first month of the year. He calls, although he has not yet made the provision, St. Cantone again to be the referee of this game that, once again, is not a simple game, it is not a simple electoral competition. January passes, February as well; in March rumors are circulating by representatives of the Government who say that the latter thinks to refresh everything. The swindled savers are deceiving themselves. March passed; it passed on 31 March, which was the ninetieth day since the publication in the Official Journal of the law of stability, deadline by the Government to issue the ministerial decree that was to establish the criteria of arbitration, and the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers that was to identify the referees. We are on April 12, far away from March 31, and the law of stability is disregarded: another negligence on the part of the Government; still a vain promise on the part of the Government and its Prime Minister Renzi. A new promise as missed as that of the payment of the debts of the public administration [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] This is a serious matter. I remember that Renzi had promised, by September 15, 2014, the payment of all debts of the public administration and Mount Senario did not see Renzi coming on foot on that summit. So this is an executive who uses haste to launch a nighttime decree to protect lobbyists and bankers, including relatives of authoritative government representatives and, five months later, does nothing to protect savers. There are those of CariFerrara, there are those of CariChieti, those of Banca Marche and especially those of Banca Etruria that are not only Tuscan savers, but also of other Regions, such as those of the town of Pizzoli, where over a thousand savers have lost the savings of a lifetime. When will this game be closed? For this reason, I and other members of the Northern League have submitted a parliamentary question to Minister Padoan, urging him to launch a new measure and, above all, to put in black and white that the solidarity fund must be integral, equal to 280-300 million in order to provide for the full refreshment of these swindled savers. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u100	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, on 30 May 2014, the INPS asked the Government, and the Minister for Labour in particular, and proposed a solution for retirement and recognition of a one-fifth increase for all periods of military service provided by the military itself. There was no reply so it goes on with the INPS which does not recognize this seniority provided for by Law No 284 of 27 May 1977, and therefore with the subsequent cases by the military, with damage of legal and interest costs by the INPS itself and therefore by the public treasury. In this regard, we have presented the question 2-00346 to the Minister of Labour first of all, to that of the economy and to that of defence, but up to now no reply has been given. We ask the presidency of the Senate aloud to intervene because this response must be given in order to avoid further damage and to recognize what is required by law. It's not a huge fact. We can understand that we have taken time for years to put our hands on the so-called Fornero law that has caused so much trouble and continues to cause millions of Italians, given the enormity of the problem created, but that we do not answer this question and do not recognize the military what the law provides and make it recognize only through the judgment by the magistrates of the work has of the incredible. We therefore call - I repeat - for the presidency of the Senate to take action so that the Minister of Labour comes to this House to answer the question and explain to us what he intends to do, and soon, because this situation is part of the absurdity of this country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u101	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-606.ana.u102	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 13 April, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.43.
