ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.37 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,42) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current timetable and the new timetable for the work of the Assembly until 9 June. As of today's afternoon session, the draft law on the establishment of the National System of Environmental Agencies will continue to be examined and the draft legislation on health and the care of serious people with disabilities will be discussed. Next week's timetable provides, in addition to the possible follow-up of the unfinished drafts, for measures on the introduction of the crime of depiracy, on the fight against intimidation against local administrators, motions on maritime state property concessions and against corruption in procurement. At the afternoon sitting on Thursday 26 May, the question time will take place with the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. The House will not be holding its session this week from 30 May to 3 June, with a view to the first round of the local elections. The Assembly will return to meet again from Tuesday 7 June with the examination of the decree-law on measures in favour of investors of banks in liquidation, the possible follow-up of the unfinished topics, the discussion of ratifications of the Conventions of the Council of Europe for the fight against terrorism and the bill on the limits of renewal of the mandates of the CONI bodies. The calendar can be integrated with the information of the Government on the ambush towards the president of the Park Authority of the Nebrodi Giuseppe Antoci.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u9	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's work for the months of April, May and June 2016 - Draft law no. 1627 and related - Introduction into the penal code of the offence of procedural pollution and depiracy (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Draft law no. 2223 and related - Rules for the fight against terrorism, as well as ratification and execution: a) of the Convention of the Council of Europe for the prevention of terrorism, made in Warsaw on 16 May 2005; (b) the International Convention for the Elimination of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, held in New York on 14 September 2005; (c) the Protocol amending the European Convention for the Suppression of Terrorism, made in Strasbourg on 15 May 2003; (d) the Council of Europe Convention on money laundering, research, seizure and confiscation of the proceeds of crime and terrorist financing, made in Warsaw on 16 May 2005;
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u10	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted amendments to the current timetable and the new timetable until 9 June 2016 pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Wednesday, May 18 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Follow-up to the bill n. 1458 - Institution of the National System Environmental Agencies (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1324 and related - Standards in the field of health - Drawing of law n. 2232 and connected - Severe disabled assistance (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) Thursday 19 " ant. h. 9,30-14 Thursday, May 19 pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to bill No 2232 and related (serious disability assistance) will have to be tabled by 6 p.m. on Thursday 19 May. [[Tuesday, May 24 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Any unfinished drafts of law - Drawing of law n. 1627 and connected - Introduction in the penal code of the crime of depistramento (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1932 - Contrast to the intimidation against the local administrators - Motion n. 539, Gasparri, on the state property concessions marine and lacuali - Motion n. 293, Cappelletti, on initiatives against the corruption in the contracts in the great public works Wednesday 25 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 26 " ant. h. 9.30 Thursday 26 May pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport]] Amendments to bill No 1627 and related (Introduction into the criminal code of the crime of depiracy) should be tabled by 3 p.m. on Monday 23 May. The Assembly will not hold its session this week from 30 May to 3 June. [[Tuesday, June 7 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2362 - Decree-Law n. 59, measures in favour of investors banks in liquidation (cancelled on 2 July) - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n. 2223 and connected - Ratifica Conventions of the Council of Europe in order to fight terrorism (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 361 - Limits of renewal sent organs CONI Wednesday 8 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 9 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 9 June pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law No 2362 (Decree-Law No 59, measures in favour of banks in liquidation) and No 2223 and related (Ratification of Council of Europe Conventions to combat terrorism) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Wednesday 1 June. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2362 (Decree-Law No 59, measures in favour of banks in liquidation) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A (MpA) 24' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissentienti 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u13	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I would simply like to refer to what happened a moment ago at the Conference of Leaders, where we asked for a change to this timetable, which we would like to put to the vote. First of all, we have asked for an information from the Minister of the Interior on the events that took place last night, namely the Mafia intimidation against Dr. Antoci, President of the Nebrodi Park, who we consider to be a very serious act, which is why we want the Minister of the Interior to report immediately to the House. There are also measures that we, as a 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group, consider of fundamental importance for our country, already available to be brought to the Assembly, which refer, precisely, to the needs and urgency that our territory has at this moment. I am talking about what has already been demanded in recent days in this House, namely the introduction of the DASPO for the corrupt, the introduction of the provocateur agent, the undercover agent, the rules for whistleblowing, the crime of prescription, financial crimes and evasion, the strengthening of penalties for the crime of autocycling, stricter rules for the vote of political-mafia exchange, a stop to corruption in public procurement. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Can you tell me the numbers of the bills you're referring to? LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I am referring to draft laws and motions which are part of our Charter of Honesty. I am exactly motion 293, first signed by my colleague, Mr Cappelletti, which concerns the stoppage of corruption in public procurement, the draft law no. 1954 (DASPO for the corrupt), 1953 (figure of the provocative agent), 1959 (undercover agent), which are the four points of our Charter of Honesty, which we ask to be immediately included in the calendar for debate in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, we have asked for a series of amendments to the timetable, some of which are closely linked to the proposals which the majority then approved. Since after the examination of the bill on health matters will be incardinated the examination of the bill on assistance to the disabled seriously, I think it would be absolutely necessary and appropriate - this is an opportunity for the Senate - to schedule the week from 7 to 9 June the bill, at the first signature of Senator Bignami, on the caregiver, which has been solicited and signed in a cross-cutting way by many senators and senators. It would be a fundamental completion for after us. There is another question, Madam President. We have all heard the words spoken a few hours ago by the President of the Republic on International Day against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia. Unfortunately - alas - the Senate has for some time been lying immemorial in the Commission justice the draft law that intervenes on the matter. For this reason and also because of the internal debate that has taken place following the sending of an e-mail to all the senators by a colleague, I think it is important to include it in the schedule of proceedings from 7 to 9 June. We do celebrations and make statements, but we are legislators and, therefore, once in a while we have to assume responsibility for being a consequence of statements made and press releases. Let me turn to the third question. We have noted with pleasure that many candidates for mayor, even of the relative majority party, during the election campaign are undertaking to establish, even in municipal administrations, the income of citizenship, income of dignity or other similar measures, which are coming forward and which are being discussed in some regions. At this point, I believe that a framework regulation on this issue would be absolutely necessary. For this reason, we are asking that the Labour and Social Security Commission should dig up the draft laws on guaranteed minimum income and citizenship income, as well as similar draft laws. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u17	To Senator Lucidi I would like to point out that on the calendar it is already planned, of course prior to agreement with the Minister, to carry out the information on the ambush towards the President of the Park of the Nebrodi. And, therefore, we cannot vote for something that is already on the calendar. In addition, the debate on the corruption motion on procurement has already been scheduled for 24 to 26 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u20	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, I too would like to propose the inclusion of certain draft laws on the agenda. As we have already asked at the Conference of the Leaders, we reiterate the request to schedule the examination of the draft law on shared foster care. Many senators have submitted draft laws on the subject: the bill n. 409, signed by Senator Stucchi; the bill n. 1163, signed by Senator Divina and other senators; the bill n. 1187, signed by Senator Panizza; the bill n. 1441, signed by Senator Stefani; the bill n. 1756, signed by Senator Blundo and other senators; the bill n. 2049, signed by Senator Lumia and other senators. Many proposals indicate that this is an issue that this House has heard, and we therefore call for it to be dealt with as soon as possible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u21	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the examination of other draft laws. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for the work which I have communicated to the House remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u22	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1458, already approved by the House of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Realacci Members and others; Brats and others; De Rosa and others. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the reply of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government and the examination of the articles took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u25	ZIZA (CoR). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the work done by the 13th The Senate Commission has carried out, to which we thank for the commitment of all its members, I would like to make an analysis of the draft law that we are going to vote on. The measure we are discussing here establishes the National Network System for the Protection of the Environment, formed by the National Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) and the Environment Protection Agencies of the Regions and Autonomous Provinces, and includes rules governing the National Network System for the Protection of the Environment. This system is assigned the task of monitoring the state of the environment and its evolution, keeping the pollution factors under control and providing information material to the various institutional levels always in the area of environmental protection. However, the text presents - as we have already seen in the Commission - some problems and weaknesses that will ensure that it will not have an exhaustive and satisfactory impact. Agencies have started to confront each other and to measure themselves homogeneously, often through a central coordinating role played by the national agency ISPRA, because it was necessary to have uniform coordination in the territory. In public opinion, environmental issues are a sensitive issue and the public's interest in these issues is growing day by day. We must therefore be able to give clear, transparent and technically impeccable answers. The measure, however, will not be able to give these answers because it has some shortcomings. I am referring, for example, to matters relating to ARPA. The bill under discussion today describes in detail the activities and functions assigned to ISPRA, but it is not as exhaustive in clarifying the functions of ARPA. The ability to determine the essential and indispensable levels of technical and environmental performance, the so-called LEPTA, is transferred to ISPRA. The latter constitute qualitative and quantitative standards of activities which must be ensured uniformly at national level and represent the mandatory benchmark for the establishment of the Agency's business plans in order to ensure an adequate and uniform activity of the National System. However, given that the choice of LEPTA is a necessary condition on which the entire National System will be based, and therefore also all activities related to the ARPA, it is necessary that regional agencies also participate in this determination. These are some of the limitations that the current draft law presents and which I hope will be corrected in the future. In order to have an organic and effective system of the network of the Agencies throughout the national territory, it would be necessary - and this is another critical finding - to identify the ways of finding resources, but the sense of such measure decays completely in the current bill, as it is not expected the use of the resources necessary to put in place the reorganization of the System of the environmental agencies. The Government, even after the opinion of the Senate Budget Committee, introduced the clause of invariance referring to the whole measure, nullifying, in fact, all the work done and emptying of all meaning the whole measure. A correct reorganization would have needed resources, which would have allowed to have a structure able to integrate the competences of the various agencies and to bring in the ability to give answers to the Country. On this point the majority have not done enough and more should be done. There is a lack of courage in some important choices and, above all, coordination with certain rules that affect the lives of citizens and businesses on a daily basis. The measure does not solve the central problem of coordination between the Agencies and all other bodies that are now institutionally employed in research and environmental protection. The new system will not lead to a greater integration of information and, above all, data, in order to prevent the defacement of the environment. The conditions under which the National Agency can be an active part in actions to mitigate hydrogeological failure are not defined. For information only, Italy will start paying heavy penalties to Europe in 2016 for the serious delays in compliance with the Community Directive, which provides for the implementation of sewage and purification systems for more than ten years. We do not say that, but Mauro Grassi, responsible for the structure of Palazzo Chigi #italiasicura, who is involved in the development of water infrastructure and hydrogeological failure, says the same, saying that on 15 December last, the European Commission informed the Government that, in the coming months, it will propose to the European Court of Justice the amount of sanctions. The Italian waste water situation, meanwhile, is from the third world. The problem concerns sewage and purification systems of 1,025 agglomerations, i.e. 2,500 municipalities. Moreover, the measure does not even clarify the aspect related to the coordination between the National Agency and the environmental guards, who in many regions have taken over the functions of the old municipal police, and the section of the police. Above all, it is not said where the military of the Forestry Corps will be brought together. It would have been desirable that the majority had decided how the establishment of the Agency will allow a reduction of the eco-afies, a phenomenon that is growing in our country: in 2014, according to the latest data, it seems that the confirmed crimes have grown by 22%. Instead of daring and trying to go further to really change things, it always remains a step back, wasting a great opportunity. In any case, we very much appreciate the commitment of many of us to try to approve a better reform possible, and for this reason, as Conservatives and Reformists, we will abstain. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u28	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Degani, as has already been said in general debate, the draft law establishing the national network system for the protection of the environment, consisting of a central structure and 21 agencies organized in 200 operational fora on the territory, presents aspects that are acceptable because it aims to stabilise certain issues left unanswered by Law No 61 of 1994. The Lega Nord Group shares the objective of ensuring a homogeneous discipline for the activities of the ARPA, which until now have been exercised differently in the different areas of the country. The situation is now twenty years old and sees some Agencies, especially those in the North, carry out tight controls and apply strict rules to businesses and others even fly over obvious illegitimate and harmful situations for the environment and for the health of citizens. Positive is the introduction of LEPTA with the forecast of environmental monitoring and controls in a homogeneous way throughout the national territory. There is also a common prohibition on agencies' advisory activities in favour of private entities on matters subject to supervision by the National Networking System, in order to avoid obvious situations of conflict of interest even if only potential. Another guarantee aspect is the principle of rotation of ARPA personnel in charge of inspection at individual sites or facilities, in order to ensure the third-party inspection and impartiality of judgement. Positive is the prediction of creating a network system of accredited laboratories. Finally, the realization and management of SINA, the national environmental information system, which makes use of territorial poles, is shared, and finally we will have the ARPA, the official holder of the environmental data, thus ending the absurdity that has led Parliament, for years and until today, to legislate on the basis of the data of Legambiente. But the above positive aspects are flanked by several critical issues. First of all, the operation of many of the rules contained in the measure is not immediate, but is subject to the adoption of future not simple implementing measures such as decrees and regulations. The most critical point - and I stress this again - is the issue of funding. In fact, transparent and objective mechanisms for the funding of the Agencies have been defined but, due to the financial invariance, they remain frozen on the map, thereby jeopardising the efficient and effective provision of services. Although ISPRA does not have an adequate organisational structure which, in recent years, has clearly shown deep operational deficiencies, it is given a reinforced role in hierarchical terms, also assuming functions of coordination of the programming of regional agencies through the administration of a three-year programme. We absolutely do not like that ISPRA alone prepares this three-year programme of the activities of the National System without the contribution and participation of the Agencies that are only called to give an opinion. Moreover, for ISPRA, the lack of intervention on the tasks of "research," which are left to overlap with the new tasks of coordination of the regional agencies, will certainly aggravate the current problems on the organizational structure in terms of rationalization and efficiency. Another critical issue is the LEPTA mechanism which, although useful, as defined strongly limits the operational and organisational autonomy of regional agencies. If the LEPTAs are defined independently of the different pressures present on the territory and, instead, are only responding to the standardization of action and costs, there is a risk of seriously damaging the specific needs of the territories, losing knowledge of specific phenomena. Italy is long and different and has different environmental pressures. Finally, on the choice of inspection staff, we believe that the provision of a regulation based solely on the principle of merit, which introduces subjective and discretionary criteria, is profoundly wrong. They were also to be considered, not only on an agenda but in an amendment, the criteria of professionalism, competence, knowledge and training. Those highlighted above are just some of the problems that led me to make amending proposals, first in the Commission and then here in this House, unfortunately rejected. In conclusion, we agreed that it was necessary, but this reform of the discipline of the National Network System of Environmental Agencies will be remembered to be a centralist measure, which moves away from the federalist principle: a messy, monco and, therefore, ineffective measure. He is centralist for the negative role given to ISPRA, an Institute that for too long - let us remember - with its deep operational deficiencies has shown that it can only float. It is a messy measure because, due to the arrogance of the General Accounting of the State, it has been filled with clauses of financial invariance, after the articles and now also in the final part of the text; an incomprehensible imposition of the technicians of Via Venti Settembre, to which it has not faced a necessary and desired determination of the policy, especially that represented by the nourished drappel of senators of the Democratic Party in the Budget Commission of Palazzo Madama, that has not demanded a linearity and consistency of behavior by the officials of the Accounting, that just two years ago on the financial invariance dictated profoundly different conditions. And then it will remain a monco measure, with so many critical issues, of which I have emphasized only a part for shortness of time. In short, they have been lost two years since that April 2014, the date of approval at first reading in the House, without making any improvements to the text. The rapporteur, Mrs Manassero, whom I thank, together with Mr Degani and my colleagues from the Environment and Territory Commission, said that a step forward was taken with the measure. In our view, a little step has been taken and there has been a lack of willingness to introduce an effective improvement. Without human and especially economic resources to monitor and control, you don't go far. It will therefore be difficult to prevent and combat eco-afies, but above all new environmental crimes recently introduced by Law 68. And meanwhile - I remember - the Forest Corps of the State has been dismantled; meanwhile the chronicles and investigations bring out more and more the existence of pollutions and environmental disasters created in the past, to which others will be added, given that more and more companies, due to the deep economic crisis and the phenomenon of relocation (which Prime Minister Renzi does not contrast), close the activity, leaving on the ground problems and sureties, presented and difficult to argue, such as not to allow the pursuit of the principle "polluter pays." It is for these reasons that, while appreciating the spirit of the reform, the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group will vote with one abstention on the measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u29	We welcome the students and teachers of the Istituto complesso di Miglianico, in the province of Chieti, who are today visiting the Senate and attending our works. Welcome, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u32	COMPAGNONE (AL-A (MpA)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the environmental agencies of the regions and autonomous provinces in Italy are twenty-one in total and have been established through regional laws, in a period of time which runs from 1995 to 2006. There are currently two hundred operational headquarters, for a total of 9,736 people in service, out of 12,270 staff. The current system costs the State EUR 563 million, resulting from public funding and exactly 78% from health care and 22% from other sectors. However, it is characterized by a strong unevenness and also by regulatory backwardness. In fact, the regional agencies, although present in all the regions, are in a state of general difficulty, having to operate with inadequate resources and serving problems of coordination between them and also with ISPRA. In addition, they perform different tasks depending on the different areas of the country and have not always sufficient intervention capabilities and often inadequate structures. From the technological point of view, then, not all agencies are able to carry out the same activities and paradoxically their laboratories are even too many and there are not enough human and economic resources to maintain the levels of quality and effectiveness. In the face of this unevenness, the regional agencies need to make a system. Firstly, they need to deal with the management of issues that are often supraregional and, secondly, to harmonise and make uniform methods, procedures, techniques and standards, optimizing resources and trying to achieve savings; in short, to achieve synergies in order to significantly improve the quality of technical and scientific work. Therefore, it is understood that this link is fundamental and that it is very important that the regional agencies can take technical action on the basis of uniform working protocols, valid throughout the national territory, also in order to guarantee the citizens the necessary equal treatment in the different regions. In fact, therefore, the measure we are examining today does nothing but formally establish the system that the Regional Agencies have already put in place for some time, albeit in the form of spontaneous coordination. Certainly this is a measure felt as necessary and it certainly represents a good opportunity to ensure that the environmental protection system really makes the long-awaited qualitative leap. In particular, this bill clearly defines the functions and competences of the Agencies, which will be carried out in a homogeneous manner in all regions. On the other hand, the functions of knowledge of the state of the environment, as well as the control of environmental pressures, together with the constant research activity, necessary to be updated on issues and problems, especially those concerning environmental impacts on health, on which the attention of citizens is most focused, are the key points of the mission of the regional agencies, to which the activities of dissemination of knowledge and environmental education, fundamental for the change of the lifestyles of the new generations, must be added. One of the most qualifying aspects of the reform, namely the qualification of environmental data and the prediction of so-called LEPTAs, i.e. the essential levels of environmental technical performance, is certainly positive. They will be the mandatory reference for the activity plans of individual environmental agencies to include a homogeneous minimum level of approach, including in order to achieve the collective prevention objectives set out in the essential levels of health care (LEA). In fact, it is expected that the organisational and management aspects, as well as the standard costs per type of service, will have to be defined through a national catalogue of services, also in order to harmonize the financial resources. This aspect is not indifferent, since today more and more the well-being of the person passes from a close connection between the environment and health, since there is no doubt that the health conditions of the environmental matrix produce certain effects on human health. Another positive factor is the strengthening of the national information network, managed by ISPRA in conjunction with regional agencies. This is an important strengthening for the collaboration that ISPRA will give to public administration at all levels, for the collection, organisation and accessibility of data. However, the measure also intervenes on another important point, that of the organization of environmental analysis laboratories. With the creation of a national network of laboratories, it will be easier to harmonise on a national scale the services they make, as well as to achieve strong economies of scale, as well as the raising and homogenisation of the technical-scientific level and of the activities of control, knowledge, analysis and evaluation. In the same way, the effort to provide better accommodation for the inspection sector is commendable. Environmental control has always been a very critical issue. On several occasions, we have complained that upstream standards are not enough if the system is not able to ensure effective monitoring of compliance with environmental standards. Precisely in these shortcomings of controls, lawlessness and mischief very often seek spaces of impunity. Therefore, also on the front of judicial police officers, the measure provides for a balanced proposal, which introduces into the legal order a precise rule in the ISPRA and the Agencies, so among the staff can be identified those employees who will operate with the status of judicial police officer. The mechanism of ad hoc appointment excludes any automatism in the declination of the norm: this for us is a positive fact. Again, in Article 15 of the measure, we welcome the provision of a Community principle which has often been mentioned in this House, which is that of the polluter pays. It is expected that the costs of issuing opinions on environmental authorisations and subsequent checks will always be borne by the operators of the installations and activities concerned. This forecast will prevent citizens from burdening the costs of environmental impact assessments, especially on industrial plants, which are - as everyone knows - potentially more polluting and which lead to a greater need for controls. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that such an important reform for the environmental challenges of the future requires an effort to coordinate and harmonize with all the environmental legislation that has been produced most recently. I am referring to the environmental connection, to the regulation of the environment, to the reform of the public administration, to the reform of the forestry body and to other measures: all this must certainly be made homogeneous, probably there may also be defects and imperfections, but certainly a new system is being recreated that can be more responsive to today's needs and may possibly be the subject of adjustments. There are two, in particular, the profiles that I think deserve further consideration: the first concerns - I would like to draw the attention of the Government to this - the administrative agency that is entrusted to ISPRA. On this point, I have some doubts, since a body which is born as a research body, the establishment of technical-scientific protocols and environmental control do not know how far it is able to apply all the administrative principles that govern the definition of a bureaucratic-administrative procedure. This is a problem to be paid particular attention to. The second aspect concerns the financial invariance clause. I wonder if we will be able to put in place, in all its power, a reform of this scale, without the necessary resources being foreseen, since - as I mentioned at the beginning - it turns out to us that to date the environmental agencies operate in lack of adequate financial resources. I therefore hope that the path will not be impoverished or made unworkable on the road, because this would undoubtedly be a bad setback. Apart from these two issues, one of which I had tried to correct with the amendment that the Government did not wish to accept and which provided for the possibility of mobilising staff from super-numbered bodies and being able to use it at ISPRA, beyond these small flaws, the judgment on the measure is basically positive and therefore announces the favorable vote of the Group of Liberal Popular Alliance-Autonomies. [[Applause from the AL-A Group (MpA).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u35	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, undersecretary Degani, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of the National Network System for the Protection of the Environment, and in this context the new framework of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research, are choices that need to be assessed in terms of the system, because it is in this context that public control for environmental protection assumes the necessary requirements for appropriate environmental sustainability policies. Quality and protection of the environment, protection of natural resources, sustainable development, health protection as an active reason for combating pollution factors are the structural objectives which must be pursued and which require an organic system of governance: a system of government in which research, elaboration and knowledge of scientific data are a condition of support and coordination of functions and competences at the various institutional and administrative levels concerned. In this way, further development of the integration of interventions is pursued, whether prevention policies are considered through increased monitoring of risk factors or by action to adopt and compare programme agreements and joint action measures for environmental protection. Recognition and enhancement of the competences of the territorial bodies, with particular attention for us to the role of the special self-governments, and framework agreements between the Ministries of Health and the Environment on the other hand, are the basis for the definition of national and regional operational choices which must relate to services and services for the purposes of civil, health and environmental protection. There is therefore a functional correlation between ISPRA and the Regional Environmental Agencies and the Autonomous Provinces, as a network capable of ensuring and determining the essential levels of environmental performance (LEPTAs, which have already been mentioned). The definition of the legal personality and autonomy of ISPRA, although under the supervision of the Ministry of the Environment, in terms of organization, research and management; the simplification of the constituent bodies through their fusion in the new and unique institution; the identification of minimum and homogeneous standards in order to achieve the objectives of environmental protection of health, contribute to the formation of synergistic and effective models. Impartiality of the control and prevention activities and full dissemination of data and knowledge are appropriately considered as binding conditions, which complement each other, of the network logic inspired by the establishment of ISPRA at national level, and the valorization of the role of regional and provincial environmental agencies in the territory which are recognized as equal levels of scientific and administrative autonomy. It is desirable that the adoption of the Ministerial Decree on the determination of essential levels of environmental technical performance, through the definition of a national catalogue of services, takes place, as indicated by the measure under consideration, within one year of the approval of this law. This is crucial with regard to the planned three-year programme, which will be an essential reference for the activities of the different regional environmental agencies. The integration of the different levels of knowledge and national and territorial functions, which the measure sets as an indispensable and uniform objective for the environmental agencies within the framework of ISPRA, presupposes that it must be based on criteria and parameters that are both structural and flexible, allowing an effective evaluation and comparison of the data and results achieved on the territory. It is a dynamic vision of the environmental governance system which is the concrete guarantee for a balanced and non-prejudiced comparison of what could and should be sustainable economic and social development. For these reasons, the establishment of ISPRA, the integration and simplification of the various regional and provincial environmental agencies constitute an effective system response to the opposite logic, which we have known, of the proliferation of bodies and levels of control. From this point of view, too, we work in a European relationship perspective so that in our countries there is more harmonisation rather than planning, flexibility rather than rigidity, dissemination of knowledge rather than hierarchies and abstract objectives, autonomy of environmental agencies on the ground within a national system that exalts synergies and coordination, and is endowed with effective models of evaluation and appropriate sanctioning powers. All this prefigures and seeks a system of environmental governance in which participation and responsibility have equal role, because this is the necessary condition to consider the global dimension of the ecosystem to be protected. In these terms, and it is a reference model at national and European level, as special autonomy we have worked for the protection of the Alpine ecosystem and with these requirements environmental protection is a factor of development and growth. I therefore announce the Group's vote in favour of the PSI-MAIE Autonomies. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u38	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteur and Undersecretary, I would like to point out that this draft law is a parliamentary initiative. I would like to stress this because I note that most of the draft laws that have produced results that we consider to be positive, as it has been for the introduction of environmental crimes in our penal code, are of parliamentary initiative. However, I note - and I can't help but do so - that, in a completely mirrored way, this type of measures, which are absolutely fundamental and which this country has been waiting for a long time, have had a little too long. We know perfectly well, in fact, that this bill to the House was approved on 17 April 2014 and today we are at 18 May 2016. However, this is a measure that we consider to be fundamentally positive, because I believe that the reform of the entire sector of environmental agencies, both national and regional, was no longer possible to postpone a reform leading to the establishment of a national network system for the protection of the environment to be entrusted with the functions of direction, technical coordination, control, monitoring and research, also regulating ISPRA as one of the fundamental institutions in this system. I would also like to remind you, as I did in my speech in general debate, that the construction of regional agencies, national ANPA and then ISPRA in this country was born following a referendum that - many will remember it - was much discussed and saw strong contrasts between those who thought that environmental controls and monitoring should remain entrusted to the structures that led to the ASL, to the multi-zonal garrisons, and those who thought it essential instead to create a system with the agencies. This system has created in recent years a series of critical issues that have emerged mainly because of the profound unevenness between functions, resources and mechanisms of the various regional agencies, with many differences between North and South to between the various regions. This has been one of the most critical elements in a country that - I would like to remind you - discovers with impressive pace the compromise of vast areas of its territory, environmental disasters and very widespread pollution (I think of the latest alarming data on pesticides). The question of whether structural reform was necessary was considered to be a positive answer. The system, as it has been configured, can be effective and the solutions we have contributed seem positive to us, especially because the essential levels of environmental technical performance (LEPTA) are identified as a level of quality and quantity of activity that must be guaranteed uniformly at national level and because it is established that these levels should be implemented by the national system as a whole, ISPRA and Regional Agencies. I would also like to point out that the system, as it is being reformed today, is linked to the idea that effectiveness, efficiency, homogeneity and authority in monitoring, environmental controls and environmental information are linked to citizens' demand to be informed, to have serious and undisputable information. The right of access concerns health; the environmental impact and levels of pollution and monitoring have a direct effect on people's lives and on the right to health. These aspects are closely related. I must say, for the truth, that on this level, on ensuring more access and information levels, perhaps we could have made a greater effort. And here comes the second point. Given the time and since there was no longer a need to avoid sending the measure back to the House, we could have made a further contribution. In fact, there were the amendments, an open debate and also the good intentions to be able to further improve the text and make a further contribution, thus justifying the time spent here in the Senate. I have already explained the positive aspects, but can we approve a reform, which we consider important and structural, at zero cost, without using resources? This is a matter for all of us. The question of human and financial resources was also one of the difficulties in the functioning of certain regional agencies. Some have also been born late, for charity, therefore, the difficulties are due to many regional inertias, but the theme of the resources, however, has characterized the criticalities at the level of the territory. And today we are going to vote for a reform which, because of the demand for the financial invariance clause, does not involve any kind of resources. It is true that Article 15 provides for the polluter-pays principle, so that expenditure, including for evaluations and monitoring, will all be borne by all, but this does not satisfy the critical points that are before everyone's eyes. I have mentioned the case of ISPRA, but it has been dragging on for a long time with enormous financial problems. There is the problem of personnel and precariousness, the problem of researchers and staff who have made a huge contribution in recent years. We have tabled two agendas on this subject, but we know perfectly well that they will not be enough. Therefore, I expect the government to be able to really intervene with resources for both staff and operation. The question of the creation of the National System, which is a step forward, cannot remain a reform which in the end risks not being implemented or which will have difficulties precisely because of the lack of resources. I address the Government and the Undersecretary to say that we have all greeted and celebrated the bill on environmental crimes, but still today, however, since we have not yet seen the legislative decree, we do not know exactly how the Forestry Corps will be framed within the Carabinieri and what will happen of the main body that has always been involved and has specialized in the repression and prevention of environmental crimes. We would not want this important step forward today, too, on the reform of environmental agencies with the creation of the National Network System for the Protection of the Environment, to be a reform that remains on paper and continues to be critical. Finally, in announcing our vote in favour, with these critical remarks, I recall that this problem must concern all of us. Today, the issue of environmental protection, the protection of our heritage and the protection of the health of citizens can no longer be regarded as a secondary issue on which resources are not allocated and on which no investment is made in terms of personnel. It is one of the fundamental elements if we really want to make sure that our country can resume a path and a path of development and well-being. [[Applause from Senators Bencini, Manassero and Vaccari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u41	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, the reform of the Environmental Agencies has been going on for eight years. We have long supported a simplification of legislation which reduces the margins of discretion and uncertainty for businesses. The reform of the control system of the Agencies and ISPRA, and the introduction into the penal code of crimes against the environment are the three conditions necessary not only to combat environmental lawlessness, but to protect the most innovative companies and to guarantee our country a quality development. In addition, the growing concern of citizens about the environment and health issue requires a response from the institutions in step with the times. Knowledge, transparency and professionalism are fundamental characteristics for which people can recognize in the technical bodies that authoritativeness indispensable to have confidence and to feel protected in the supreme good that is their own health. The de facto construction of a system of environmental protection agencies becomes, therefore, a top priority. Their constitution, with Law No 61 of 1994, has marked an important milestone, but now it becomes indispensable to go further. We're not starting from scratch. Already today the Agencies and ISPRA have more than 200 offices at the service of the country, 600,000 samples analysed each year, almost 100,000 operations between inspections and inspections, more than 73,000 instructors and opinions, more than 11,000 operators involved. These are important numbers. It increases activity and reduces costs for the citizen. In 2012, the Regional Agencies received €563 million of public funding from Regions and Provinces, around 80% from the Regional Health Funds. Numbers - I said - important, but which do not guarantee uniform application, throughout the national territory, of the necessary controls. The Southern Agencies are certainly the most difficult ones, despite often the environmental emergencies concern those Regions: the ILVA of Taranto, the land of fires, Isochemistry, Bellolampo, Malagrotta, Bussi. This measure finally gives the country an effective and efficient organization of the control system. It is not just a matter of verifying compliance with the rules, which are of absolute importance; it is also a complex monitoring and data collection activity that serves to improve the level of knowledge of the many environmental factors. It is a question of having reliable, scientifically validated data produced by autonomous technical bodies, which enable us to make the best decisions for the good of our communities. There is no territory today in the country where, compared to the construction of any kind of plant, there is no social conflict; a conflict often due to the lack of confidence of citizens towards political and administrative institutions, but also to those technical ones, unfortunately, increasingly accused of being enslaved to the decisions of politics. In the measure that we are going to vote we try to give more autonomy to the Agencies and ISPRA; we clearly define the relationship between controller and controlled, we ask for more professionalism to those organizations who, while remaining instrumental technical structures, will formulate opinions that will be binding on the competent authorities, absolutely independent and scientifically valid. A real network system coordinated by ISPRA is being built. The full autonomy of regional levels remains and synergies are being achieved between the bodies, which are now left to the good will of the people. The numerous provincial laboratories are networked, the technical specializations developed within the individual agencies are integrated. Uniform levels of environmental technical performance are determined throughout the country, for which basic environmental protection levels are defined, equal throughout the country. To define the same authorization procedures for the same type of plant means not only to do good for the environment, but also to avoid some kind of industrial dumping, so that, under equal legislation, there are places where some polluting activities can proliferate and others where this is not allowed. We will finally have a system whose data will be considered official. Too often they are quoted for conveniences, sometimes instrumental, numbers coming from the most diverse organizations or professionals. Regional agencies find more autonomy in this scheme and complement knowledge. We already have great scientific excellence in these organizations today. Special attention should be paid to environmental and health issues. Compliance with environmental limits and an efficient system of controls are, in fact, health prevention activities. This is the reason why ever closer collaboration between the System and the Higher Institute of Health, another important part towards the construction of a more modern country, which finally considers the environment not only the main common good to be protected, but also a great opportunity to return to growth. Madam President, these are the reasons why we voted in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and from Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u44	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, the establishment of the National Network System for the Protection of the Environment changes the current system of environmental agencies, redefining the relationship between ARPA and ISPRA. ISPRA plays a clearer role in the technical coordination and programming of the activities of the agency system, which is intended to be developed in a uniform manner at national level. The content of this bill was born in the Chamber of Deputies from the unification of the texts of the Royal Deputies, Bratti and our De Rosa. The measure introduces the essential levels of environmental technical performance (LEPTA), which represent the qualitative and qualitative standards that must be guaranteed uniformly throughout the national territory in relation to the activities that the National System is required to ensure. In the bicameral Commission of inquiry into waste and environmental offences - I assure you - it is noted that the figure is absolutely not homogeneous on national territory: we see how the Agencies are uneven. As some colleagues have already said, there are good control systems in the North, while in the South of the agencies absolutely sgangherate; I could talk to you about Basilicata, Campania, Puglia, Sicily, but also about Lazio. This is also highlighted by ISPRA's latest national report on the presence of pesticides in water, where five regions (almost all of the South, including Lazio) are missing. The Regions are obliged by law to render data to ISPRA, through their Agencies, but without the provision of sanctions or counterweights when the task is not fulfilled. As the agencies themselves have stated, communication is not done because of the lack of tools, means and people, and this is very serious and absolutely unacceptable. The aim of this measure is to strengthen the system of controls in order to provide certainty to citizens and businesses and to protect the environment and health. This is another proof of how Parliament could work every day, by unanimous dismissal of shared legislative proposals, for the benefit of citizens. The text of the bill has, however, suffered in the Senate for more than a year the obstructionism of the Government, which has opposed in a decisive, peremptory and lasting way and which in the end gave its passepartout, but contrary to the parliamentary will to dismiss the text as soon as possible without changes, of which it would have been necessary to improve it in autonomy, ability and efficiency. What did the government do? It has imposed on the Commission an amendment of financial invariance, dictated by the General Accounting of the State, which will first oblige a further transition to the Chamber of Deputies. It is, among other things, a superfluous and redundant amendment, which adds nothing to what has already been agreed in the Commission in the House of Deputies, when it was accepted, despite the will of many, to put at the end of each article the declaration of economic invariance precisely because of the will of the General Accounting Office of the State, and the famous article on the methods of financing was changed. Therefore, the aim is all political: the government emphasizes that on the controls it does not want to put a euro and this, perhaps, is even a sign that it intends to give to the outside, to some type of enterprise that clearly does not work within the limits of legality. The text would have all the potential to make more transparent, credible and strong the system of environmental controls and the homogeneous implementation of the essential levels of environmental technical performance throughout the territory, strengthening the participation systems, the interaction of databases with the inclusion of autonomous authorisation and sanctioning capacities, as well as with activities to support the identification and qualification of environmental damage. It is a system capable of making comparisons, advanced research, dissemination, an autonomous system and finally independent of politics - perhaps for this reason the Government does not want it - also thanks to rotations in the recruitment systems; an official national holder of environmental data, which therefore becomes given, known and mandatory and therefore removes from the uncertainty citizens and businesses; it is the right counterweight to the necessary and so acclaimed simplification, but alone, without control, it means chaos and will. It is the law of the strongest to the detriment of the environment and the right enterprise. How is this achieved, i.e. an efficient and autonomous national system without adequate funding? We are not talking about rain money to which we are also opposed, being absolutely for the rationalization of public spending, not to increase it, so we are not talking about money that must end up in the pockets of the executives or in uncontrolled expenses, but of just and careful rational financing, reported, and adequately controlled, to the levels of performance required as mandatory and stringent. Therefore, it is a beautiful pretentious project, necessary and urgent, but everything on paper. We have recently been to Basilicata, but as I said it is just one example: I could tell you about the ISPRA of many regions in the South and the Central and South. We have found a giant, the ENI, which weighs heavily on the territory, thanks to its 180 million annual royalties and contracts with the induced disposal of waste that only with the company Tecnoparco amount to 5 million per year. On the other hand we have found an ARPAB that will also overpay its executives with 150,000 euros a year, but that has no means, tools and men able to face the controls, that does not even have the possibility to computerize their faldones, to catalog them, to control and publish the data of the control units for failures and continuous inefficiencies of the system; in short, it is a scared and gangherato mouse, functional to the giant ENI. Yet the problem of funding agencies is old, present since the establishment of the agency system, i.e. over 20 years ago. However, this national system of agencies is necessary. Also the law n. 68 of 2015, on environmental crimes, requires a more structured and important agency system, especially with regard to the part VI- bis of the legislative decree n. 152 of 2006, where the alternative procedures for the definition of minor violational hypotheses tend to favor prevention compared to repression. There is therefore a need for a system of checks that knows the work and does it in a compulsory way. Our proposal from the Single Environmental Fund, which was accepted on an agenda, should have been introduced into the measure under discussion, because it could have been the right key to financing so many environmental projects that our country has been waiting for a long time. In fact, while it is true that the national system of agencies relating to opinions on applications for environmental authorisation and subsequent checks will be borne by private operators and that the expenses related to activities related to the judicial authority will be borne by the Ministry of Justice, ARPAs need strong autonomy, therefore funding that guarantees its management independence for all the many areas of its competence. We know that, with regard to expenditure items, everything depends on what politically we want to finance. This government has already demonstrated so many times that the last thought is the environment; it has already demonstrated it with Minister Madia, who has dispersed the Forest Corps of the State. We know how he behaved with the ILVA: after ten decrees-laws did not solve any problem and, in fact, it is a few days ago... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. NUGNES (M5S). I'm done. Excuse me. As I said, it is from a few days ago the news that the Italian State is formally under trial at the European Court of Strasbourg, accused of not having protected the lives and health of the citizens of Taranto for the harmful effects of Ilva. We will vote yes to this measure, which belongs to us, but we will take home a nice refrigerator of class A++ without having the chance to attach the plug, waiting for - shortly - the 5 Star Movement goes to the government and make the necessary electrical connections. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u47	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the measure in question was approved in the House two years ago in April 2014. This text is now being taken up again without the slightest possibility of making any changes, even if necessary. In fact, during the procedure in the Senate Environment Commission, the only change allowed was the introduction of the financial invariance clause. With regard to this unsatisfying choice, I have tabled a deleterious amendment - obviously rejected - supported by the following explanatory statement: how is it possible to reorganise and rationalise the agencies without allocating the necessary resources for this purpose? To adopt such a measure while maintaining financial neutrality means to render null and void the objective which is intended to be pursued, at least at the earliest stage, the most delicate one, of the first start of the new structure, for which provision should be made for and provision for the financial means necessary for the establishment of the national system. It should be stressed that even during the course of the procedure in the Commission it was not possible, by the will of the majority, to improve the approach underlying the measure, which, in fact, creates a centralist structure, which does not take into account the different environmental performances found at territorial level, in particular regional level. We consider the measure's structure to be highly critical, with ISPRA being above all else. ISPRA, according to the new approach, is placed as an over-ordered subject that will use - let me tell you - the dogma of environmental infallibility. There are numerous provisions of the bill in which this criticality is found, starting from the second paragraph of Article 1, to go, then, to article 3, letter c), last period, in which it is established that the cognitive elements identified by ISPRA constitute official and binding reference for the activities of the public administrations. In this regard, we believe that this rule is unreasonable and reasonable, because it is not expected what the consequences of a possible, justified and necessary derogation by public administrations can be. Finally, it should be mentioned article 13, paragraph 2, in which it is stated that the Council of the National System - which, it should be noted, is chaired by the President of ISPRA - expresses its binding opinion, among other things, on the measures of the Government of a technical nature in environmental matters. What is meant and how is the technical nature of a measure defined? It is such a vague, indeterminate and inaccurate term that it can include anything that has even the slightest connection with environmental protection. It is not appropriate, in our view, for such an ambiguous phrase to be used in a law which foreshadows the issue of a binding opinion; to this end, action must be taken to ensure that there is a clear definition that does not leave such wide margins of uncertainty. A further critical element appears to be the provision on how to finance, contained in Article 15, which provides that ISPRA and the agencies will carry out their institutional functions within the financial resources available to current legislation and in any case without new or increased burdens for public finance. In addition, the operators - including private individuals - are responsible for the costs of issuing opinions on applications for environmental authorisation and for carrying out subsequent checks, including with regard to the validations of analytical investigations produced by the parties required to clean up and secure polluting sites. However, the provision says nothing, and we believe it is a further very critical point, about the criteria to be adopted with regard to future tariffs, except to refer to those already applied by agencies at regional or provincial level, in the more than approval of national tariffs that will be later established by decree of the Minister of the Environment. On the one hand, therefore, the financing arrangements which remain in the process of being defined, which are still uncertain, on the other hand, the introduction of the financial invariance clause. It almost seems that until now unproductive expenditure has been generated which has not led to any result. It's like turning on yourself to get back to the starting point. Thus, of the two: either the majority introduced the clause of conscious invariance, without declaring it, that the margins of efficiency in the operation of ISPRA are relevant and such as to allow the recovery of resources in quantity necessary to support the new system, or there is the will not to make the new model take off. In both cases, it would have been better if the majority had given clear indications about this without repeating the usual refrain "declared but I do not, I would like but cannot be done" which therefore characterizes many points of government action. Moreover, further criticality, it is unlikely that the national network system will be able to implement the essential levels of environmental technical performance, such as the quality and quantity of activities to be guaranteed uniformly at national level. This does not take into account the different territorial needs and performance achieved at regional level. The aim of setting up a network system is acceptable even if, in our opinion, it is not appropriate to focus all environmental protection activities on ISPRA, which is already a hyper-bureaucratic entity with more than 1,250 employees than the Ministry of the Environment and which is in danger of taking on any "alternative" environmental initiative tomorrow. If today the ISPRA represents the element of cohesion of the system (as we read on the site of the agency), while respecting the territorial realities, tomorrow the risk is to eliminate one of the most important elements of the system that governs the environmental protection, that is the attention and the valorization of the territorial realities, as demonstrated by numerous scholars of the field and by authoritative positions based on the reality of the facts. A further critical point of the measure in question concerns inspection staff. In particular, the provision according to which the President of ISPRA and the legal representatives of the agencies can identify and appoint employees who, in the performance of their inspection duties, operate with the status of police officer, has raised many doubts. This is also reflected in the opinion expressed by the Senate's Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which stresses that the provision presents unreasonable aspects, as it seems to attribute to some employees with inspection functions, tasks and qualifications which require a regime precisely because of the specific nature of the function. In conclusion, Mr President, we share the objective underlying the draft law, namely to establish a national network system for the protection of the environment with the reorder, but together with an action to enhance the ARPA. We are not convinced of the majority's approach to substantially denying any improvements to which we intended to make our active contribution; a mistake which, in our opinion, involves the approval of a text still characterised by critical issues which, if not overcome, will seriously undermine the concrete and balanced implementation of the Agency's network. The new law brings with it unsolved nodes, ranging from the size of resources to the governance of the new system, to the transparency required in relations with private operators of systems and plants. On all this, in conclusion, stands the hypercentralist approach dear to the Renzi Government, which loses the opportunity to fully value what exists and is efficient in the logic of homogeneisation downwards, without being able to strengthen the system of agencies and without being able to express the desirable synergistic coordination. For these reasons and others, which my colleagues, Mr De Siano and Mr Scilipoti, have highlighted in the general debate and in the context of the explanation of the amendments, I am announcing the abstention vote of the Group of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u50	VACCARI (PD). Madam President, undersecretary Degani, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, political solidarity, as well as human closeness (after colleagues Lumia and Caleo have already done so this morning), to the Commissioner of the Nebrodi Park, Giuseppe Antoci, who was struck in the night by a mob attack, which only thanks to the skill and promptness of his escort did not cost him his life. [[Applause from the PD, AP(NCD-UDC) and FI-PdL XVII Groups and Senator Gaetti]] Antoci has been at the forefront of organised crime for years, because he had the strength and the courage to discover the system of the rent of pastures to mafia families, who received European contributions for never-realized organic crops. What has happened is a strong warning signal, a cry that shows how parks are a garrison of fundamental legality. In addition to being instruments for the protection of the environment, biodiversity and the territory, they are a bulwark and an obstacle to the interests of ecomafias. Those who work and deal with it at the forefront, beyond their role, carry out a difficult task, often not considered, that the State should enhance and protect more. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform we are discussing today in this House has been under discussion in the country for as long as eight years and, as a Democratic Party, we have undertaken to carry out this work, giving an organic response, able to remove discretion and uncertainty, as well as territorial differences, businesses and citizens. The work done in the House, with the unanimous approval of the bill, and then here in the Senate could undoubtedly be shorter. Waiting so long for an opinion on Article 81 of the Constitution and asking only for the invariance of spending of the rules, which has already been guaranteed in a number of articles, has left us a little forbidden, not only because this forces the measure to return at third reading to the House for an inertial change, but because, in order to be shared, it should have been understood and interpreted before, on the whole of the measure as it came out of the other branch of Parliament, and possibly - as my colleague De Petris also said - improved in some parts of it also here. We hope, however, that the House's colleagues will keep the time frame for the draft law to a minimum and make it the law of the State as soon as possible. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Patrizia Manassero, for the conduct of the work, together with my colleagues from the PD Group in the Environment Commission and all my colleagues from the Commission, starting with President Marinello, for the tenacity and patience shown in achieving this goal, together of course with Secretary Degani and Minister Galletti, who have taken political responsibility for the process of the bill, which is not always easy, as well as for ISPRA, its president and the Association of ARPAs, who have supported the work of these months, as well as environmental associations, starting from the role played by Legambiente. I would like to stress that today we are adding a further piece to the environmental reform project that this Parliament is conducting as it has never done before. The introduction into the Criminal Code of environmental crimes and the rules on green economy in the related environment will be welcomed by the reform of the control system of the Agencies and ISPRA, with the creation of the National System. Other bills are under discussion and now in the final straight line, such as the reform of protected areas, food waste, civil protection, water, soil consumption. In a climate of growing concern about the issues of the environment, health, climate change, which the Paris COP21 has brought back to the centre of international political debate, an answer is required from the institutions based on knowledge, transparency, professionalism and ethics of the technical bodies. Only in this way will it be possible to give back fully that necessary authority to regain the confidence of citizens and businesses, to make them feel protected in the most important good, which is their health, but also in the exercise of the freedom of enterprise. Since 1994, when they were set up, the Agencies have been a reference point for businesses and citizens, although with a non-homogeneous response throughout the country. If we think in particular of the South of the country and the names of the sites subject to pollution and environmental damage, we see concretely this imbalance and this uneven treatment. This is an injustice to which the bill in question remedys, responding concretely to the so-called polluted people of our country. The draft law defines a single national system, overcoming regional imbalances and regulatory overlaps, indicating in ISPRA the national pole and in ARPA the regional and territorial poles capable of networking, more effectively and homogeneously, through the implementation of the so-called essential levels of environmental technical performance (LEPTA). This system will have to be the only place where to bring together and share skills, experiences, data and information, through which public and private actors can find support to qualify, from an environmental point of view, their intervention. It is a new organizational model, coordinated, but that enhances the autonomy. The third and the scientific autonomy, the multi-reference towards those who work in these areas and a new system of financing are the guiding principles that characterize and qualify the new law. Citizens and businesses will therefore have to be able to rely on a system certified and "third" compared to the institutions, of producing data and analysis on environmental matrixes and related environmental and health information, as already happens in many parts of our country, after an action of reduction and redevelopment of spending in this sense, which has not sacrificed experiences and skills. In the measure that we are going to vote we try to give more autonomy to the Agencies and ISPRA, we clearly define the relationship between controller and controlled, we ask for more coordination and work on the net, more professionalism to those organizations who, while remaining instrumental technical structures, will formulate opinions that will be binding on the authorities. The full autonomy of regional levels remains and synergies are achieved between the institutions, which were anticipated with the birth of the Association of ARPA in 2001, as a further step towards the formal constitution of the National System. Already the decree of the President of the Republic n° 207 of 2002 had established the Federal Council of Environmental Agencies as a place of coordination, but without sanctioning, or explicitly regulating, the existence and operation of such a national system. Only later, in 2008, with the birth of ISPRA this will is further confirmed, taking up an organic programming of activities, which, after positive initial experience, in particular with the projects of the National Thematic Centres, had continued tirelessly and in the absence of clear guidance action. Now this experience becomes a real network: the numerous provincial laboratories will have to be networked and the technical specializations developed within the individual Agencies will have to be integrated. This will determine the same levels of environmental protection from the North to the South of the country. As we have been told by the magistrates, engaged in the field of eco-aphics, this new system will also help to make more effective the actions of repression that came into force with the law on eco-rheatics. In conclusion, Mr President, I repeat that ISPRA also plays a more important role in this project: the 1,306 staff units currently operating, which are now employed for the implementation of the three-year plan, the completion of ordinary services, as well as for other activities in the Convention, will be available to a national system which will thus also coordinate research. This vision is linked to the work that the Democratic Party and the Government are also carrying out on the subject of hydrogeological failure, soil consumption, the need to provide scientific bases for careful spatial planning and, more generally, in the fight against climate change, to better implement the national adaptation strategy. Today, after about eight years, we build in this country a stronger system for environmental protection, giving a modern and innovative organization able to face the complex challenges that current times impose on us. Of course, the issue of resources is not a secondary issue, but thanks to our agenda we are sure that the Ministry and the Government will be able to respond correctly and appropriately to this need. I hope, however, that, beyond the prejudices towards this Government, the "well-beings" always present, as well as the theatrical excesses of some colleagues we have heard in this Assembly, the political opposition forces will be able to grasp here as in the House the specificity and innovative scope of this bill, sharing with us the choice to approve it, thus inserting another important piece towards the construction of a more modern and just country, that finally puts the environment at the center of development policies for sustainable, sustainable and inclusive growth. It is a challenge for everyone that we want to win and certainly not postpone. For these reasons, Madam President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u51	We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u54	Mr Manassero, rapporteur. Madam President, I rise to express a very brief but due thank you. The time factor emerged significantly during the various stages of the discussion. The two years since the approval of the Chamber to date have been recalled several times. I mean, however, the measure has never been forgotten. In this period of time, in addition to the necessary confrontation with the Government, there was a lively and productive debate with the Ministry, with ISPRA, with AssoArpa and with the environmental associations concerned. I would like to thank all of them sincerely, as I thank the Undersecretary Degani and Minister Galletti for their political support in this process, all the Commissioners of the 13th Environment Commission, President Marinello and Senators Caleo and Vaccari who, as PD Group Leaders, took turns during this period, for the tenacity with which they defended this reform, and to Councillor De Salvo for technical assistance. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u55	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1324, 154, 693, 725, 818, 829 and 833. The rapporteur, Senator De Biasi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u56	The text to be examined by the Assembly was dismissed by Commission 12a after a thorough examination, preceded by a detailed legislative inquiry. In the course of the procedure in the contact person - which concerned the draft law no. 1324 (Government), 154 (Laura Bianconi and D'Ambrosio Lettieri), 693 (Mandelli and D'Ambrosio Lettieri), 725 (D'Ambrosio Lettieri and others), 818 (Silvestro and others), 829 (White and others) and 833 (D'Anna) - the draft law of government initiative was adopted as the basic text for the continuation of the joint examination. [[Brusio.]] 18.16 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u57	Colleagues, have Senator De Biasi do her surgery under acceptable conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u58	It consists of 26 articles, in its original wording, and addresses a plurality of issues of particular health interest, mainly in order to respond more and more adequately and qualified, taking into account scientific and technological innovations, to the needs of users and to the safeguarding of the expectations of those concerned in relation to health needs. It must be made clear immediately that the 12th Although the Commission considers that all the arguments dealt with by draft law No 1324, which are not excluded, should be taken into account, it nevertheless considered it appropriate to concentrate the legislative inquiry and the subsequent examination on the provisions which were considered to be priorities: hence the proposal to delete part of the articles, which is covered by the rapporteur's amendment 9.1, which was adopted during the examination in the referee. Having said that, it is possible to take a look at the articles which are not the subject of the proposed deletion, as a result of the amendments accepted by the Commission. Article 1 gives a delegation to the Government for the reorganization and simplification of the rules on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use, in order to put order in a regulatory framework that has become very complex due to the regulatory stratifications that have occurred since the 1990s. It should be stressed that, through the planned reorganization, it is also intended to prevent a loss of the share of national clinical research in favour of those countries with the most attractive procedural, regulatory and economic contexts. Mr President, in any case, I would ask that we be able to submit the written report, so that it can be annexed to the documents, and I shall now try to make a summary of it in order to simplify our work. The principles and guiding criteria for the exercise of the delegation, in providing for the reorganization and coordination of the existing provisions, are explicitly without prejudice to compliance with the European Union's rules on ethics in medical research on human beings, in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration of the World Medical Association of 1964, and its subsequent revisions. The same principles and guiding criteria include: the identification of the requirements of the centres authorised to conduct the various phases of clinical trials; the identification of the modalities for supporting the activation and optimization of clinical centres dedicated to phase I clinical trials, both on patients and healthy volunteers, to be conducted - and here is the first novelty - with a methodological approach of gender medicine (this is the first time that in Italian law there is talk of gender medicine); the identification of the appropriate ways to protect the independence of clinical trials and to ensure the absence of conflicts of interest; the simplification of formal procedures, with regard to the request for the opinion of the Ethics Committee; the simplification of procedures for the use for clinical research of biological or clinical material remaining from previous diagnostic or therapeutic activities. In addition, the same principles and criteria provide for: the revision of the procedures for the evaluation and authorisation of a clinical trial; the application of information systems to support clinical trials; the identification, within the educational systems, of specific training courses on the methodology of clinical research, the conduct and management of clinical trials and drug trials; the periodic updating; the reformulation of the sanctioning apparatus; the revision of the legislation on non-profit and observational clinical trials. The principle of the identification of criteria for the possible establishment of masters in the conduction and management of controlled clinical trials including gender pharmacology was deleted at the contact point. Article 2 provides for the updating of the essential levels of care, with specific reference to the inclusion of pain control in the labor-birth phase. During the examination in the contact person were accepted changes that took into account the evolution of the legislation on the updating of the LEAs and that, substantially, have clarified that the control of the pain does not necessarily have to be achieved through the use of regional local anesthesia techniques. In addition, a paragraph has been inserted in the article which states that in the updating of the LEAs the specific requirements of gender medicine must be taken into account, providing appropriate therapeutic pathways and access to care in a uniform manner within the National Health Service. Article 3 introduces an organic reform of the orders and colleges of the health professions, intervening with the technique of the novella on a regulation dating back to the law establishing the orders, referred to in the legislative decree of the Provisional Head of the State of 13 September 1946, n. 233. I would like to point out that since 1946 there has been no update in terms of health professional orders. So this article seems to me to be of particular importance. The aim is to make the system more responsive to today's needs, not only from the point of view of professionals, but also of citizens. It is a modernisation of the discipline of the health professions, which require the maintenance of the role of guaranteeing the quality of the level of professionalism, in the supervision of the constitutional right to health protection. Several amendments were accepted during the discussion. Quote them all would take a long time because they are really many and qualify the text. I would like to mention, among other things, the establishment of professional bodies of nursing professions, the profession of midwife, medical radiology health technicians and technical health professions, rehabilitation and prevention. With regard to the latter order, it is envisaged that the separate categories of medical radiology technicians, health care workers, the individual technical health professions, rehabilitation and prevention should be included and - in accordance with the following Article 4, inserted in the contact person - the register of the profession of osteopath. The discipline referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 3 is laid down, as mentioned above, in terms of news and the new organizational norms concern both the existing orders of surgeons and dental practitioners, veterinarians and pharmacists, both the new orders mentioned above, and the order of biologists (regarding the latter and the order of psychologists provides the following article 5). As a general rule, the exercise of one of the health professions in question - in any legal form carried out, as specified in the contact person - is subject to registration in the relevant register, for which the possession of the prescribed title and the entitlement to professional activity in Italy are required. This means - I say it to my colleagues - going in the direction of increasingly definitive opposition to professional abuse. The orders under consideration are established at a territorial level and the merging assumptions have been added. Article 4, introduced during the examination in the referee, establishes and defines the profession of the osteopate in the health professions. It is established that for the exercise of the osteopate's health profession it is necessary to possess an enabling degree or equivalent qualifications, requiring the identification of the criteria for the recognition of the latter to an agreement to be concluded at the State-Regions Conference. With regard to the educational system of university training in osteopathy, it is expected that it will be defined by decree of the Minister of Education, University and Research, in agreement with the Minister of Health, after hearing the relevant parliamentary committees and having obtained the opinion of the National University Council and the Higher Health Council. I hope that's enough. Article 5 aims to include the professions of biologist and psychologist in the health professions, referred to in Legislative Decree No 233 of 1946. Article 6 establishes, in the Order of Engineers, the national certified list of biomedical and clinical engineers. Article 7 amends the system of criminal and ancillary penalties in the event of abuse of a health profession. Article 8, inserted during the examination in the contact person, extends to the pharmacist the penalties provided for the commercial crime through channels other than pharmacies of medicinal products and pharmacologically or biologically active substances considered doping substances. Article 9 includes among the common aggravating circumstances the fact that in non-polluting crimes committed to the detriment of persons admitted to health care facilities or to residential or semi-residential social and health facilities. The provision aims to sanction the peculiar disvalue inherent in arson conducts that target particularly fragile subjects. Article 10 provides that, with agreement concluded at the Permanent Conference on Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, further arrangements may be established for the inclusion of doctors in specialist training. A purely technical correction has been made at the contact point. The news referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 11 provides that persons entitled to practise health professions or arts, with the exception of professionals entitled to the prescription of medicines, may carry out their activities also in pharmacy Article 12, inserted in the contact person, provides for the establishment of the health profession of chiropractor and an ad hoc register at the Ministry of Health. The exercise of the profession is subject to registration in the register, for which the possession of the qualifying degree or equivalent qualifications is required - identified with agreement established in the Conference between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. For the identification of the competences attributable to the profession of chiropractor, paragraph 1 recalls the procedural rules and the criteria in force in this regard for new health professions to be established. Article 13 provides for the establishment of the role of the health management of the Ministry of Health and lays down rules for access to that role. Article 14 lays down closing rules with regard to the legislative powers of the regions with ordinary status, those with special status and the autonomous provinces. By inviting colleagues to read the full text of the report, I repeat that this seems to me to be an extraordinarily innovative measure in the field of health. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u59	The Presidency shall authorise it to deposit the text of its report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u62	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask you to suspend the examination of this measure for a week. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak on the question of suspension for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u65	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, frankly, I remain grounded, because this is a measure which the Commission has examined, even with the great participation of the whole constitutional arc. It is true that we do not have a representative of the League in the Health Commission, and that is something that we are very grateful for. But this provision has been in the Senate for a long time. It has been carefully examined throughout the Commission's amendment phase. It has been on the agenda for two weeks now and we are beginning to do so now in an extremely orderly way. There is no reason for some to shift the examination of this measure, which, among other things, is requested by over 800,000 health workers. If this isn't a really senseless obstructionism, I don't know what else to call it. Therefore, on behalf of my Group, I absolutely ask that we continue to examine this measure. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u68	DIRINDIN (PD). Mr President, I am also surprised by this request because, if I am not mistaken, there is a representative of the League in the Health Commission, who, moreover - for reasons which I am not at all discussing - is rarely present, but we have been working on this measure for two years, with the participation of many people who, although not in our Commission, have given us their contribution, formally or informally. It is a measure which, as has been said, seeks to update legislation dating back to the fifties, expected by many health professions, which demand, precisely, a modernisation of the existing rules. Since in the Commission, among other things, the debate has often led to conclusions that, in many cases, have seen the unanimity of all its components, and in many others a very large majority in relation to the work we have carried out, it seems to me that the measure at our examination has been widely discussed, with a huge number of hearings that we have held, both formal and informal, and that therefore there is no need for further study. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u71	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. We are not opposed to the measure, but to the fact that as soon as we vote the majority is out of the box, while we have to stay in the Chamber and work. So instead of dragging it out, before we proceed to the vote, we ask for a quorum check. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti. Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u72	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 18.33 and resumed at 18.54.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u73	We shall now proceed to the vote on the suspension of the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u74	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u75	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. That is why I think it is reasonable to move on to the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u76	He is not here, but Senator Tremonti had asked to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u79	PADUA (PD). Mr President, I should like briefly to draw attention to a fact which has happened in recent days and which concerns our radio and television service. I am referring in particular to the broadcast aired in prime time on Rai2 and which dealt with the issue of vaccines, in which characters were involved who certainly did not have the title to be able to address this topic so important, with the exception of a professor who was present. The parterre, therefore, was completely opposed to vaccinations having brought together people who had no competence. This is particularly serious, Mr President, at a time when our country is experiencing an increasingly problematic decrease in the demand for vaccinations. We know that, when the vaccination threshold falls above a certain level, the risk of those diseases that we have now forgotten, which we considered to be eradicated, increases, but that if we continue to lower this threshold, they will not be eradicated, just as they have happened in other Western countries. Therefore, the invitation of the Ministry of Health, of so many of us, of the Health Commission, of pediatric doctors and of the Higher Institute of Health, is to give correct information. It is not possible for the public service to provide incorrect information [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Cattaneo]] Information cannot only be done by reading social media, which are also useful tools; it is necessary to deepen the information and ascertain the truth from a scientific point of view. It is necessary that the family doctors, those of general medicine, pediatricians and, even more so, all of us, together, make this effort to explain that thanks to vaccines you no longer die of polio, diphtheria and tetanus and other diseases and that smallpox has disappeared. This is not an acquired data forever: it is not that it will never happen again. If we lower the vaccination threshold, this spectrum may reappear. What about optional vaccinations? Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, rubella is one of those diseases which, if contracted in the first phase of pregnancy, causes very serious and very serious damage to the person, with dramatic deficits and disabilities. Do we really want to forget that this is a serious problem? Do we really have to think that measles is a child's disease? No, measles is a serious disease, which can be complicated by serious problems such as encephalitis. Therefore, even if there may be very rare, exceptional cases, sometimes linked to vaccinations, they are certainly much more rare than the consequences that would be contracting the virus i.e. contracting the disease. Everyone's effort must be to be careful and to urge vaccinations, avoiding that the public television tool can be used to spread absolutely unsubstantiated news. When these debates and confrontations take place, there must be people who are equally prepared, who can also think differently, but who have scientific instruments available to bring to that debate. With all due respect, I can't be the host of a show, I can't go singing or acting because I'm a doctor and I've studied for this: everyone do their job, please. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bianconi, Cattaneo and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u82	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, we too want to join in the voices we have heard in this House today of solidarity with the President of the Nebrodi Park, who was the victim of an attack this very night. A real action of Mafia commando, that has blocked the car on which the president Antoci traveled with big boulders and then shot the mad at the car. The latter fortunately armored, has left the passengers unharmed, thanks to the prompt and effective reaction of the men of the escort who without hesitation have responded to the fire, putting in flight the bandits, some of which probably has been injured because traces of blood have been found on the pavement. It was a military action that saw policemen prevail thanks to their courage and their proven competence and professionalism. Evidently those who thought that in that territory and in the Nebrodi region the mob phenomenon had lost vitality were wrong. A seemingly quiet territory, at least in recent years, but still presenting regiments and regurgitations of the archaic mafia of pastures, traditionally organized in the mountainous territories and bravely opposed by President Antoci. It was a very serious episode, which led us to ask the institutions, first of all to strengthen the escort against those who have exposed themselves to enforce the laws and impose the legality within a protected park; secondly, to strengthen the vigilance and the presence of the State in those marginal territories, mountainous, difficult to control, which require greater fight against crime, which seems well organized. We ask Minister Alfano and the whole Government to make a further effort to send more men and means to that territory and to ensure that the legality and civil coexistence can be restored in a difficult area. To President Antoci, to the head of the public security commissioner of Sant'Agata Militello, Dr Manganaro, who, after arriving on the premises, participated in the firefight, on such a difficult day is also the solidarity and closeness of the Senate Assembly and an invitation to continue their courageous action of contrast to the criminal organization. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u85	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do something more than ask questions over and over again. I would like to recall the motion by Mr Amidei and others, approved more than a month ago, with which the Government in general has undertaken to dispose of the backwardness of the inspections which have remained unanswered. We have had no record of any change on the part of the Government, despite the unanimous vote of this Assembly given with the favourable opinion of the Government itself. So, if the government makes fun of this institution, it is this institution that must move and not through bureaucratic, however sincere, but exclusively bureaucratic, forwarding of solicitations. I should like to add one thing: since for years now a series of my questions on the issues of motorway concessions has been totally unanswered (not even an answer on 11 questions, but it is not a problem of numbers, I could have tabled many more and I limited myself on purpose), in the face of this lack of answers I asked for access to documents under Law No 241 of 1990 and the 30 days provided for in the law have been well exhausted without any response from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. I'm beginning to think that what I suspect, that there's a lot to hide, is true. I have now appealed to the Commission for access, but frankly, that parliamentary questions should be dealt with by means of the request for access, which, moreover, is inevaded and ignored (not a telephone call and not a line from the Government) is unacceptable and which - I have learned - takes place exclusively in our country and exclusively in front of Parliament. All regional, provincial and municipal councils answer all questions. Governments from other countries answer all questions. There is no response here either to a request for access to documents. I refer, in particular, to three questions: the 3-2530 of 27 January (the others are much older, but these are updated since in the meantime, thanks to the fact that the Government does not give any transparency, it can go on making extremely questionable moves) in which I ask the content, not the orientation or who knows what else, but only the content of a protocol signed with great spolvero by Minister Delrio with local administrations to give for thirty-one years one of the most profitable motorways of Italy to a participant. I also ask the question 3-2533 of 28 January on the A4 motorway; here we are talking about a billion 200 million which should be collected by the State and which will instead be collected by a private company to which the Government has given, given, given a concession given at first in exchange for the construction of a certain infrastructure that will not be realized. I have also presented another very recent one which I do not urge because it is from 4 May, so from a short time ago. Finally, on 12 April 2016 I submitted the question 3-02768, concerning the gift of 20 million to those who are making Salerno-Reggio Calabria, aimed at having President Renzi make an inauguration in useful times, that is, before the referendum vote. This is also unacceptable, because there has been a race and those who won it have won it under certain conditions. Since he won it, he gets a tip without being accountable to Parliament (we just happened to know that). Thank you, Mr President, and I would ask that the presidency of the Senate take real responsibility for this, because it cannot be acceptable for simple transmission, for prompting and then doing nothing about it. It would be as if the Senate did not put on the agenda a decree-law of the Government: it must be done, it is not a courtesy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We will.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u88	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, Blera, a hamlet of Civitella Cesi, a village of about two hundred people living there, a small community characterized by a road that sees a single road that connects the country, all around is characterized by woods. There's only one bus for the students. The Internet is non-existent and mobile communications are very difficult. A country that empties during the day, because workers and students move; a small square and a small bar as a center of aggregation. Well, Mr President, in this context we want to open a first reception centre, which should be home to about fifty immigrants. The citizens are seriously concerned. They turned to the prefecture, which communicated the simplest thing, namely that we are in emergency and that people will still be sent. In these days we will also present a question, clearly at the request of the Lega Nord Group and "We with Salvini," who are interested in this case. Civitella Cesi is certainly not an ideal place to start integration processes or a place to temporarily park 48 immigrants. I would like to make it very clear that the local citizens and the group of the North League, represented by Fusco, have serious concerns that they have nothing to do with matters of religion or race. We simply think - the citizens strongly believe - that special attention should be paid to a small village of two hundred people, where to think of "parking" or to integrate about fifty immigrants I think it is absolutely out of place. With this speech and with the question that we will be asking the prefecture to pay the utmost attention to this case. I believe that particular attention should be paid to a territory which, because of its characteristics and issues linked to the impossibility of welcoming fifty immigrants, risks being in serious difficulty, as well as to all its citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u89	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-629.ana.u90	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 19 May, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.13 a.m.
