ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 22 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u3	I communicate that, pursuant to article 126, paragraph 4, of the Regulation, in second reading only the preliminary assessment of the compliance of the coverage of the draft budget law with the rules established in the matter by the current accounting legislation is carried out. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u4	The Commission's economic planning, budget, pursuant to and for the effects of article 126, paragraph 4, of the Regulation, after consulting the Government's representative, are the following: the recent reform of the law of accounting and public finance, introduced by law 4 August 2016, n. 163, in implementation of article 15 of the law 24 December 2012, n. 243, has brought some significant innovations to the accounting discipline, which concern both the breakdown and the contents of the public finance operation; as regards the articulation of the manoeuvre, the most relevant novelty is that they have been accepted in a single measure (the draft budget law), consisting of two sections, the contents of the two draft laws (stability and budget) which, according to the previous legislation, had to be submitted to the Chambers; in this context, the draft budget law, based on the provisions of Article 14 of the law n. 243 of 2012, is not subject to a programme of coverage but to a balance rule, by virtue of which the value of the net to be financed or to be used by it, must be consistent with the objectives of the plan of public finance;
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u5	In the light of the favourable opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission, I inform you that the draft law No 2611 (State Budget for the financial year 2017 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2017-2019) is referred to the Budget Commission in the contact person, with the opinion of all the Permanent Commissions, as well as of the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs. The Commissions are therefore authorised to convene immediately and to supplement their agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u6	The Conference of Leaders has defined the timetable for its work. The standing committees will have to report to the budget committee by 8.30 p.m. this evening. The draft budget law will be discussed in the Assembly at tomorrow's single sitting, starting at 9.30 a.m. The amendments to the House will have to be tabled by 9.30 a.m. tomorrow. As laid down in the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments rejected by the Commission may be tabled. If the budget Commission fails to complete the examination of the measure, all the amendments tabled therein will be considered technically rejected. As the Government has announced that it will put the question of trust in Section I of the bill, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the debate in the Assembly will be organized according to the following time-scans. After the introductory report and the vote on any incidental issues, it has been established that in any case explanations of vote will begin at 12 noon. Therefore the call will take place around 1.30 p.m. After the vote of confidence, any amendments and articles of Section II of the draft law will be voted on, as well as the final vote by electronic means. As usual, the final explanations of vote will take place in a single phase, coinciding with the explanations of vote on confidence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u9	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, as you know, we have expressed a very negative opinion on the maneuver approved by the House and I believe that the Italian citizens, in the vote on Sunday, have also given a very negative opinion on the substance of that constitutional reform, but also on the economic and social policies of the Government (we will then have the opportunity and the time to reflect, I do not know whether in this House or elsewhere, even more on the analysis and the significance of this vote). However, I believe that the citizens have expressed themselves (and with some clarity) also with regard to the method by which the government has proceeded on constitutional reform and that, alas, it has been a constant that has characterized it for three years: impositions and forcings. Now that we have arrived at the end, until the last we have to witness yet another incredible force, giving life, among other things, to a new one, because each of us went to see if there had been any precedents and it is a total unpublished that of a Government and a President of the Council who has actually resigned (we all know that the President of the Republic asked him to freeze resignation for the budget law) and that, for the umpteenth time, asks for confidence. There is a resigning government that demands trust and someone has spoken of technical trust, but the Constitution, thanks to the millions of Italians, is still in force and this Senate is also alive. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL, FI-PdL XVII, M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed and CoR Groups]] A government that has actually resigned has asked for trust and all this when - I say it clearly - we could quietly do our job. That is why we have been elected, Mr President: to carry forward the demands and proposals of the citizens and to represent the social suffering that exists in this country. Among other things, all the oppositions have said that they are ready to quote their time and also to table targeted amendments. I would also like to remind everyone that the President-in-Office of the Council has filled this maneuver with tips, tips and promises. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL, FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups and Senators Bignami, Pepe and Zin]] A few hours before the vote he signed a pre-agreement for the renewal of contracts; after refusing to approve the amendment for the children of the ILVA during the examination of the maneuver in the House, he promised that he would remedy the Senate and, as usual, we must verify that, as always, it was promises and lies. Fortunately, the citizens have noticed! [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, FI-PdL, M5S, LN-Aut and CoR]] But I say: at least on the things on which they were given to the common assurances that they would intervene with a series of specific commitments we could have safely done our job! Proposals have been made, such as anticipating the conclusion of the one-week examination of the draft budget law. By the way, millions of citizens have asked us to try to put our hands on a maneuver that, as it is, will not only create so many problems to the balances and the budget of the State, but still new criticalities to our country. As always, however, this Government and its President (former President) have missed the opportunity to demonstrate that sense of political responsibility, which they have once again shown they do not have: they have led us to split the country on the Constitution (fortunately the citizens who voted no were many more than others) and now, instead of trying to make sure that the maneuver could continue its process by remedying the mistakes made and some choices made in the House, what do they do? They think they will speed up and the President-in-Office asks for confidence after saying that he had resigned and promised to resign. This means that citizens have done very well to say no to the President of the Council in order to defend the Constitution; we hoped that he had learned the lesson, but he obviously learned absolutely nothing. My proposal to amend the timetable is to postpone: have all week to carry out the Commission's work and bring the draft budget bill to the House's examination in the week from 12 to 16 December, so in advance of the initial forecasts. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u12	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr President, in these hours I hear about technical trust. Given that there are no technical governments, but Executives who, whatever their composition, gain confidence from Parliament and, therefore, political trust, all the more reason why there can be no technical trust in a political government which, despite the resignation announced by the President of the Council, remains for now, according to the Constitution, in the fullness of its functions. There is another subject, Mr President, which I would like to put before you. In the referendum on Sunday, Italian citizens, therefore the sovereign people, confirmed a full legitimacy to the Senate of the Republic. I was a member of the Yes Committee, but I must acknowledge, bowing to the will of the people, that the Senate remains in this legislature and will remain in the next. It therefore seems paradoxical and incorrect to me that the budget law, the year-end maneuver, which is the most important act that the government does and Parliament approves, should be cleared by the Senate in fifteen hours, without the possibility of amending, with the vote of confidence, which is not technical but political, to a government resigned, so another paradox opens up here. This seems to me to be a vulnus, Mr President, to the dignity of the Senate and to the will of the voters. I therefore call for the Commission to work this week and for the budget law to come to this House next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u15	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I rise to reiterate what has been said at the Conference of Leaders. After a very challenging week, we saw a referendum result that strongly legitimized this Senate and, therefore, also the perfect bicameralism. At this point, we do not understand why we must not enter into the substance of this budget law, which has already been passed in the House with many critical issues. Moreover, the House's reports show that many points have been approved subject to correction here in the Senate. We do not understand this behaviour, not least because our Group, like many groups, has limited itself to the submission of very few amendments, those considered to be the most important ones and which really deserve a debate. Debate, moreover, already started in the House, with punctual technical reports, so a thorough examination would not have resulted in a great waste of time. For all these reasons, as a group, we would like to delay the debate in the Commission by two or three days and then arrive in the Chamber, at least, with these corrections. We know, in fact, that many measures have been introduced as electoral bonuses, measures that Europe is already asking us to correct in corrective manoeuvres in March. Restoring the truth would therefore be the least. At this point, I would like to express the hope that tomorrow's confidence will not be demanded by people who have written the "schiform" that has been soundly rejected by citizens: that they have at least the dignity of taking a step back. I would ask that the timetable be extended, as my colleagues have previously asked. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u18	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I imagined that one could be forgetful, but not so far. Perhaps, Mr President, we should also put another inscription behind you: On December 4, 2016, by popular suffrage and by garrison of public liberties, the Senate of the Republic remains. [[Applause from the COR, LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]] If so, it would be appropriate for the budget law, which is the most important law for this Assembly to fire during the year, to be examined much more carefully than our Government has asked us to do. Also because a fundamental fact, which we have reiterated in this House, is that there is a whole series of posts that we would like to check and, if possible, amend. Moreover, as I have already had the opportunity to say, since I do not belong to the paternalistic pietistics of the President of the Council, who always asks in the name of the children, not having the undersigned and speaking, as a parliamentary, in the interest of the country, I believe that the interest of the country must be safeguarded and being the Senate in its own functions, we cannot dismiss a budget law that continues to be postponed with the costs to the future. We would need to safeguard the collective interest, to verify and, where possible, to make those cuts necessary to avoid the risks of the famous safeguard clauses, which are nothing more than expenses made by this Government in the past two years without having the assets to be able to do them. So, on Sunday, it was a vote that reminds us of our responsibilities and if we have to assume these responsibilities, perhaps we should start working with a little more seriousness and less over-the-counter, which this Government has demonstrated to date. I therefore support the line of my fellow Members in calling for the budget law to be left in the Commission these days and to go to the House next week. [[Applause from the CoR, LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u21	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, alas, when things like those of last Sunday happen, we should learn from the mistakes made and become aware of what has been said for a thousand days, namely the dream of a "Renziland" where everything goes quickly, where the Senate does not exist and where he would no longer have come here to ask for trust. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] If you remember, in fact, the first thing our current (and future former) President of the Council said was: I will be the last President of the Council who will come to this House to ask for trust. Alas, the Italians told him that he will not be the last President of the Council to ask for trust, but it will be the last time he asks for trust. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But aside from the jokes, we come to the serious things, because the state budget is a serious thing, despite this Government and this President of the Council. The state budget is so serious that it has been voted on in the House, and given that - alas for you, colleagues (reprove and you will be luckier, perhaps in another legislature, if your President will reappear) - there is still the perfect bicameralism and consequently, as we said at the Conference of the Leaders, the same dignity that has been given to the House of Deputies in order to deal with that provision must be given to the Senate of the Republic: the dignity that deserves this measure, the dignity that deserves this Assembly and that deserves all the people and all these Italian citizens who have been elected by other Italian citizens to represent them in this House, which, alas, the President of the Council, who lacks memory, never remembers. Mr President, why do we ask what other Members have asked for? Because there are some arguments that have remained unanswered, such as that of the oboli of the pre-agreement with the unions regarding the salaries of the public employment, the problem of the ILVA, the problems of the agreements between the State and the Regions and the problem of the agreements between the State and the Municipalities, which will remain in canvas pieces if tomorrow should pass the confidence. So, Mr President, at this historic moment, the need to give an answer to the citizens is urgent, also in order to ensure, as we have advised Minister Boschi, that public opinion does not think that what he promised during the electoral campaign, that is, the famous money to civil servants, is not the usual brand to bring home four more votes. Bring the results home. Take home what we promised the Italians. There are emergencies, President, and at this moment, in our country, despite the referendum, despite the resignation of the President of the Council (which, in the end, who cares!), despite the future politics will be engaged to talk about the electoral law as the country falls apart - I repeat: the country falls apart! - this budget law must give answers to the Italians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So, Mr President, we propose that the Commissions stay and work this week. We are also willing to reduce the number of amendments, keeping the most important ones, which must give an immediate response to the Italians. We could therefore come to the House on Monday and vote. Afterwards, we will bring the President of the Council a one-way ticket to Florence, so that he can safely return home to be with the family and do what he promised, since the first promise was: I'll leave the policy. And every promise is due! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u24	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I agree with my fellow Members when they ask for a postponement of the vote on this draft budget law and I also do so as a member of the Finance Committee. There are a number of tax rules in the text and if we have to give our opinion in the Commission this evening, it is impossible to assess what mistakes there are. I would also like to remind the resigning Government that on the occasion of the examination of the decree-law on measures for areas affected by the earthquake had promised to postpone the request of taxes to those who suffered the earthquake, but if it puts the confidence this will not be possible, because the measure was covered until 31 December 2016 while we had asked for a cover at least until 31 December 2017. I understand that this government must go home, because the citizens have so established, but if the Democratic Party, which still has a majority in this House, is truly respectful of Italian citizens, it cannot leave them a budget law that will condition them next year, without even having time to read it, giving yet another confidence to this Government that no one wants anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would therefore ask all Members of the majority really to detach themselves from this symbol and from this subjection in Renzi and think, for once, of what the Italian citizens want, namely a serious budget law and not the usual nonsense you do. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u25	I assume that your request for a change in the timetable is in line with that of your fellow Members.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u26	BOTTICS (M5S). Yes, Mr President, I would ask that the vote be moved to Monday.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u29	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Thank you, Commander! I am referring to you: I remember that two years ago, again in this House, you said this phrase for the law of stability: We now approve the law of stability and, after that, the majority will rewrite it. I thought we had reached the lowest institutional point in this Senate on that occasion, but today, in this House, we are beginning to dig into an even lower point, because you take responsibility for having a draft budget that will create an unprecedented institutional chaos in the history of Italy in the local authorities: Commons in disarray, because everything about local authorities had to be discussed in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, Commander, last time I was the one to tell her to get back on board, this time the Italians told her: return aboard and assume a serious institutional responsibility. Avoid passing a budget law that will cause an institutional chaos that has had no precedent in Italian history, all due to the unpreparedness of this Government that has made only electoral marches. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I ask you seriously, because it is your responsibility; because the Senate is and remains and you are the second office of the State, take responsibility for having this draft budget law discussed seriously and for resolving the institutional chaos that would otherwise result. The responsibility is all yours, not those who come after, as always; it is yours, that you leave an infinite chaos only for the economy of the marchettes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u30	Senator Bulgarelli, I am sorry that after so long in this House on parliamentary procedures you have been a little behind. As you know, the President does not have the responsibility, but the House has it, which will soon be voting on whether or not to confirm the timetable. I'm sorry, but even though you call me Commander, I don't command anything in this case. [[Senator Bulgarelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u33	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you announced with the usual solemnity the opening of the budgetary session, after which you iced the Senate - not frozen, like the President-in-Office of the Council - with an indication of a timetable which within 24 hours should lead to the approval of the financial manoeuvre. Saving colleagues - also because many have already highlighted it - comment on the referendum vote. I only greet that vote with a well-come back, Senate; but it is a well-come back bitter, President, why did it come back to do that? To submit to the Diktats of a President-in-Office of the Council, among other things, for the moment quite upset by a result that was not expected and that, instead, we knew how to be in the feeling of Italian citizens. However, we are a responsible force, we are convinced that the provisional exercise would not be useful to this country and we want to safeguard the dignity of this Assembly; not only the dignity of this Assembly, but also the interests of the country. I would like to remind myself before colleagues that the budget law is formed in two readings and that, through the debate at first reading, it is open to some important measures in the second reading. My colleagues have mentioned some of them: from the ILVA in Taranto, to the measures for the municipalities, to the filling in of the funds useful to honour the contract (although clearly pre-electoral) signed with the unions for the public employment. It is, therefore, a budget law which finds a natural complement and a natural integration in the second reading. The stifling of the times and, among other things, your announcement, Mr President, of a possible vote of confidence - which, moreover, has been read on the agencies and has never been officialized in this House before since the beginning of the debate - leaves us absolutely dissenting (to use a term corresponding to Parliament's attitude) and opposed. In fact, we would never have imagined that someone would propose to a Senate in full legitimacy - not only present but now also future - to have to vote for a government which, on the other hand, in this legitimacy is no longer, having the President of the Council made it clear that its resignation is political and irrevocable, temporarily suspended only for the approval of the draft budget law. But not his draft budget law. Article 81 of the Constitution, as recently announced, requires Parliament to approve the budget law even if the Government does not have to be present anymore: that is a debate that we could usefully take forward. We therefore reiterate our opposition to any form of confidence and to the provisional exercise, and we ask you, in an absolutely responsible manner, to be able to use the entire current week, if necessary even until Sunday, to approve this draft law in ordinary form, i.e. through the examination of the amendments in the Commission and through the examination of the same proposals in the Chamber. Some of these - such as those that have already been highlighted - are considered indispensable (or at least were until twelve hours ago) by the government itself, but there are others that could arise. I would like to highlight one particular point: the proposal to remove from the text approved in the House a whole series of rain contributions that have been introduced by the other branch of Parliament, perhaps even in pre-referendary function; if it is usefully eliminated, according to my calculations, Mr President, it could save EUR 3.5 billion of non-necessary forecasts, which could help - this time the country and not the government - to better deal with the European Union's judgment. We have suspended the intercourse with the European Union; Mr Padoan, after the referendum result, which he too panicked, did not go to Brussels. On the other hand, from Brussels there have been messages of openness inviting us to resolve our political crisis, and then, at the beginning of the year, to talk about an additional maneuver. We want to prevent people from talking about this. Then we can very well, in these few days, eliminate the burdens of the maneuver that can then lead Europe to the peremptory demand for an additional maneuver and present ourselves with a clean and tight maneuver to the bone. Of course, the VAT problem is the one that we are most concerned with at the moment and we agree that the increase should be suspended from 1 January, so we would assure the majority, in this parliamentary case (the Government at this point becomes more a spectator than an actor, or at least so it should be), the closing of the examination within a reasonable time, by the week, in order to be able to finally approve the text to the House, ensuring the presentation of very few but significant amendments. Well, before the opening of all the oppositions, because I have heard all the oppositions speak in these terms (so also ours), that is of course a quick reading and in absolutely reasonable terms with useful changes to the country, I really find it difficult to understand the attitude of a Government (which at this point is affected a bit by the hysteria of defeat) that is already in itself substantially resigned. I therefore ask the House to consider the proposal to conclude the examination of this draft budget bill by next Sunday, but without a vote of confidence and with the assurance from the oppositions, in this case by Forza Italia, of the presentation of very few significant amendments. There would be all the time to do so. As for the precedents, President, one was invoked, when the resignation of the Monti Government was also, with an unhappy term that is used in these hours, frozen to approve the budget law, but then an ordinary procedure was activated. Apart from the fact that in that case the fall of the government was certainly not determined by a referendum as heavy as what took place last Sunday, also on a date chosen by the government. The government, when it indicated December 4 as the date of the referendum, knew well that we would be riding the two readings of the law of stability. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami]] He knew that very well; it was a choice dictated by the overkill of thinking that that referendum would be a further flywheel to his policies. That referendum was fortunately a resounding stop to the government's policies. So now the government and the majority should have a minimum of humility in order to allow the Senate, recovered - I repeat - in all its dignity, present and future, to be able to discuss the substance of the budget law. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u36	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, everything has already been said. I repeat a proposal already made by other Members, namely to allow the Budget Commission to work at least this week, including this holiday, as has been done so many other times, and to bring the measure to the House on Monday next week. I would like to put forward the content of the proposal before the Presidency asks for it and, if I may, I use the remaining time available to give my reasons. Mr President, the word 'technical' has been mentioned several times in the Conference of Leaders and in this House with reference to constitutional doctrine. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u37	Senator Ferrara, I can hardly hear you. I would like to ask colleagues to lower their voices or sit outside if they are to continue to argue.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u38	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). The word "technical" is very important and widely used in the Italian language; it comes from the Greek word téchne, which means art. The word means expertise in achieving a goal. In constitutional doctrine, the example of technical choice is the best reminder of Parliament's technical dissolution. Article 61 of the Constitution provides that elections to the new Chambers should take place within seventy days of the end of the previous ones. Hence the need for early dissolution, because, if not, each time the term of the legislature would increase by seventy days. In that case, the Head of State operates a technical dissolution, because he must achieve the objective of not allowing the duration of the legislature to last longer and, therefore, the expertise in achieving the objective takes him away from the constitutional obligation (i.e. the Parliament is dissolved when it is established that a majority is lacking). In constitutional doctrine, expertise is therefore something that derives from constitutional obligations. The technical trust has been carried out at other times in achieving a constitutional objective that I do not believe can be that recalled today by the majority and the Government, waited that Article 81 of the Constitution provides that the approval of the budget is a constitutional obligation that takes Parliament from the life of the Government, just as the conversion of decree-laws is taken from the life of the Government. It is necessary, then, that we all know what is happening in this House. In this House there is a compression of the right-duty of every senator. Every senator has the duty to make the laws, according to the constitutional dictation and the Rules of Procedure (the reference is, in this case, to Rule 126-a, which dictates times and instructions to the Commissions and the Assembly to approve the budget maneuver). In this case, if we all accept the timetable of work as desired by the Government and the majority, we will fail to fulfil our specific obligation, which is to "work" the budget (and it is not necessary for this to happen with a non-resignatory government). The fact that the resignation has been frozen is an elegance of the activity of the President of the Republic. This was also the case for the resignation of the Monti Government, although in that case the text of Article 81 was that of the year 2013 and, therefore, different from the current one. Senator Morando is watching me. He knows, for having been one of the creators of his creation, that the Budget Office would serve precisely, as is the case in the other parliaments and especially in the United States of America, to have the individual amendments approved regardless of the Government's opinion. Indeed, for example, the Government, in avoiding a report from the Accounting Office, can very well prevent the discussion of any amendments. So the work for the approval of the budget maneuver and the life of the government are two things that in constitutional doctrines, are detached from each other. We, on the other hand - and if I were to convince even one senator on the other side of the hemicycle it would be a great success for me - are working with a timetable that is only, over time, functional to the leadership of the Democratic Party of tomorrow that having approved the budget before the management meeting, would have taken one of the reasons out of the way why the debate could be focused not on the lusts, ambitions, presumptions of the resigning government, but on the duty of Parliament to proceed in a legislative activity that would be a guarantee of the state, the people and the mandate received. Let me be clear: I am opposed to this calendar because I am against further exposure of our activity to the glow. We presented it to the public with a vote of confidence on the electoral law, with the vote of premissive articles that have torn and rendered vain all our activities for the amendment of the Constitution. [[Applause from Senators Airola, Bignami, De Pin, Di Maggio, Liuzzi and Volpi]] By approving this timetable of work, we once again expose to the grievance the judgment that then, rightly, in the mood of anti-politics, the people gives to our activity because at this moment we are not (I should say "not been" but I say "we are not" because the responsibility is of everyone) acting as parliamentarians, but as servants of the Renzi Government and the leadership of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the GAL Groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL), Mixed and Senators Rizzotti and Volpi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u41	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, as President Ferrara has well explained, it is objective that our debate and therefore the request to put trust in the draft budget law is nothing more than one of the many acts linked to the internal feud of the Democratic Party. So, once again, we take our country's needs hostage so that there can be a settlement of accounts within the Democratic Party. Now, Mr President, I appeal to your prerogatives, to the prerogatives of the President of the Senate - if you can be so kind as to pay attention to what I am saying - to allow, while maintaining the time set by the Conference of Leaders, a reopening for the tabling of amendments because at 14.52 p.m. today there was a noteworthy fact: the newly elected President of the United States, Donald Trump, has announced, renzianaly via Twitter, that he no longer intends to proceed with the purchase of the new Air Force One, with a saving of 4 billion dollars. [[Applause from Senators Ferrara and Bignami.]] It would be good, at this point, for us to include as an amendment in the draft budget bill a balance at the end of the season, that is, the sale of the Air Force Renzi and allow 200 million savings which are those promised by the law of constitutional modification. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Ferrara Mario]] In this way we would render a great service to the country and we would have an excellent argument to face the electoral campaign because the nequities behind the purchase of that plane will feel, yes, in the electoral campaign and will allow us to discover why, by giving up the equipment of the military aircraft, we must buy planes from the Arabs and from funds like the emiratini funds to cover a struggle of power that is one with the reasons for which trust is placed tomorrow morning. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and Senators Bignami, Liuzzi and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u44	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I really cannot understand the sense of having to vote on a matter of trust and therefore of totally closing the dialogue. From the PD I would have expected a snapshot of the message that the Italians sent: Renzi is a liar - it was obvious that the message would be this - so we have no faith in this gentleman. So we cannot give him confidence, even to make him make a law that will regulate Italy's economic policy. First of all, it would perhaps be appropriate to work as any Italian normally does in this country, so from morning to evening, even on Sundays, waiting that when there are important jobs to complete the companies and workers do overtime, perhaps because there are very important deliveries. Moreover, we are also under Christmas, a period when, normally, there are deliveries to be made; in our case we need to deliver the budget law that regulates the Italian economy. It is therefore a very important measure: let us get to work, Mr President, and let us do it twenty-four hours a day. We can do shifts, because there are so many of us: we work together! It is not possible, however, that, after the message so clear from the Italians, the Democratic Party will close and will not have the Italian Parliament discussed. We must return to the Commission and allow everyone to speak: I am referring not only to the opposition, but also to several Senators of the Democratic Party, who want to express themselves. It is not possible to shut your mouth, especially if the one who is closing it has been distrusted by the Italians. [[Applause from Senators Ciampollo and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u45	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to postpone the debate in the Chamber on the draft budget law. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u46	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-731.ana.u47	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, December 7, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.28 a.m.
