ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. First of all, the questioning 2-00354 will be carried out by abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Rules of Procedure, and questions 3-02324 and 3-02990 on the obligation to install, maintain and verify defibrillators by sports clubs, including amateurs. I call Senator Idem to explain this questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked the Minister for Health how he intends to deal with a deadline - which will expire in the next few days, and not for the first time - with regard to the obligation to equip sports facilities with semi-automatic defibrillators, and with regard to all the derogations regarding the training activity with regard to the use of these instruments. In the present case, certain critical aspects have emerged, for example with regard to the installation of semi-automatic defibrillators in installations offering outdoor activities, since the people who frequent and use such facilities, often, by contingency, are not within the appropriate distance from the same defibrillator. This involves practical problems as well as responsibilities with regard to the presidents of the sports associations and the operators of the facilities. First of all, I would like to know what we intend to do with the derogation, since it expires in the next few days, and what action is being taken with regard to this responsibility for the critical cases just outlined.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u5	The representative of the Government may reply in conjunction with the question and the question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u6	Madam President, I would like to thank the senators for once again raising a subject, as far as the Minister of Health is concerned, of undoubted importance and, for the reasons of timing that have been described, even of great topical importance, which allows me to clarify - I hope with a single answer, waiting for the analogy of the subject under consideration - the complexity of the subject, in view, above all, of the succession of legislative and regulatory interventions, which have characterized the sector in recent years. In the first place, talking about defibrillators, as is well known, is equivalent to recognizing the value of defibrillators in terms of safety in sports facilities. This legislation was born after events known to the sports chronicle of our country, in many dramatic aspects, which have therefore also determined an effect of absolutely important legislative initiative, not only for the safety of the plants, but also for a specific training of operators and for an increasingly punctual activity in terms of information both of athletes and of the public. With regard to the current regulatory system, I would proceed in order: Article 7, paragraph 11, of the Balduzzi Decree no. 158, converted by Law No. 1789, 2012 and amended by Decree-Law No. 69 of 2013, converted in turn by Law No. 98 of 2013, specifically provided that, in order to safeguard the health of citizens who practice a non-competitive sport activity, the Minister of Health, with his own decree, adopted in agreement with the Minister delegated to tourism and sport, provides health guarantees through the obligation of appropriate medical certification, as well as guidelines for the carrying out of health checks on practitioners and for the provision and use, by sports companies both professional and amateuristic, semi-automatic defibrillators or any other life-saving devices. To implement the standard, the Ministerial Decree of 24 April 2013 regulating the certification of non-competitive and amateur sports activities and guidelines on the provision and use of semi-automatic defibrillators and any other life-saving devices was adopted. In particular, Article 5, listed under the title: "Lines of guidance on the provision and use of semi-automatic defibrillators and any other life-saving devices" provides that amateur sports clubs and professional sports clubs must be equipped with defibrillators, following the procedures of Annex E of the decree, with a time-frame known to be different: professional companies within six months of the entry into force of the same decree, while, as is well known, for amateur companies, by decree of the Minister of Health adopted on January 11, 2016, the term has been extended from thirty to thirty-six months. Therefore, as has been pointed out, the deadline for using defibrillators expires on 20 July 2016. After extensive evaluation, the postponement of the term was introduced with the aforementioned decree, having received reports from federations, CONI and many associations, precisely allow the completion of all the activities of training of operators, mandatory for the use of these instruments, of the amateur sports sector that had already been started, but not concluded. Returning to the guidelines set out in the Annex And of the decree, I remember that the same determine the modalities of management of defibrillators by professional and amateur sports clubs. As regards the training of staff, it may be useful to recall that the decree of the Minister of Health, adopted in agreement with the Ministry of Economics and Finance, after agreement with the United Conference, has already established for years the criteria and modalities for the dissemination of external defibrillators as medical devices to be used both in health facilities, and in any other type of mobile, stable or temporary structures. This agreement of March 2011 obviously also regulates this further activity, which is subsequent. With regard to the last question in Senator Idem's question, the Government is also considering and monitoring this deadline carefully in these hours. At the moment there are no specific initiatives that I can officially report, but we know the complexity and also the concern that exists. We are considering the best instrument and procedure to secure this vast world and to comply, in many respects, with regulatory requirements that have entered into our legislation after emergencies that Parliament is notoriously aware of.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u9	IDEM (PD). Mr Undersecretary, I am partially satisfied with the answer because the regulatory framework is very clear and it has been a response to emergencies that have occurred in the past. The legislative response is absolutely right with regard to both the certification of sports fitness, safety and defibrillators. However, there are some critical issues to which the law does not give answer and the regulatory gaps that determine areas in which managers, presidents, managers and coaches can incur in terms of responsibility, for facts over which the practice on the field is unfortunately not fulfilling with respect to the law. I'll explain with very simple words. We think of a cyclist who exercises his sport on the road, making many kilometers, a tank top and a canoe player who are outside the water system or an athlete who does the marathon and walks away from the sports facility. Someone is responsible for these athletes, but he cannot fulfill his duties of responsibility. I have asked whether it is possible to comment on this lack of legislation, because in most cases the presidents of sports associations are volunteers who guarantee with their own personal heritage. At the Commission on Public Education, cultural goods are being held hearings on a sport deal, during which this major critical issue is being highlighted, which unfortunately has an undesirable effect in some cases. People withdraw, no longer assume their responsibilities, and the fabric of sports practice risks becoming thinner. So the norm is right, but some expressions are missing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u12	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr De Filippo for his information. I am pleased and satisfied with your sensitivity, but he did not answer part of the questions I put in the question, especially those which interest me most. I immediately clear the field from any intention that is not the right one and say that the Autonomous Province of Trento has already activated a law that finances up to 95 percent of the expenditure for the purchase of defibrillators. In our small territory, there are already more than 250 defibrillators purchased and you even think of putting defibrillators in every neighborhood of the city of Trento. In fact, defibrillators are not only interested in sportsmen, because a heart crisis can happen to a citizen who walks on the street. This emergency is absolutely felt and all the volunteering in the field of health and emergency has been active for years. So let's clear the field from this reasoning. I refer in part to what my colleague, Mrs Idem, has already said: it is a question of defining responsibilities. Here we are assigning responsibilities to sports clubs that, in the case of a mountain province like ours, made up of small and very small centres, operate on a totally voluntary basis. Managers are people who make their time available free of charge, they are parents who carry the kids around, who follow the competitive or sporting-dilettantistic activity free of charge and who do not know well what responsibilities they meet, because then, when there is a dead start the disputes, the interpretations of the law and, apart from the expenses, arise all the psychological problems that a situation of this type entails. That is why I have asked that the entry into force of the law be extended and that certain special situations be clarified. We are not talking about paid facilities or professional companies, we are talking about pure sports volunteering. You think that in my municipal territory (I live in a village of 214 inhabitants) there are six sports fields; there is a company that manages at the same time six sports facilities (soccer talk, of course). After school, the children go to play; there are six teams playing in six structures at the same time. It's okay as long as there are games, this is guaranteed; but let's try to think about training, let's think about when five or six guys start running in a field. How does a company guarantee the presence of a specialized employee who takes responsibility, for three or four kids who run? What is the danger of this rule? Let the structures remain closed, because no one takes the responsibility to keep them open, and that in the end we are going to discourage sports volunteering, but above all the practice of sport. These are not so much athletes who are not enrolled, because they are all regularly enrolled and undergo medical examination; these are situations that are not competitive. In the case of matches and organized sporting events, surely the presence of the defibrillator and the attendant is due, recognized and sacrosanct. But, when we are talking about micro-training or small sporting meetings that took place the evening after dinner with some friends, making the presence of the clerk necessary is a problem and it is above all a problem to make him responsible. So let's encourage and make sure there is; but forcing society to find, every time someone enters a camp, who assumes responsibility for the correct use of the defibrillator for us is a problem and means creating, in the associative and voluntaristic fabric, especially in the mountain territories and in the small centers, a really big problem. I am aware of your sensitivity, Mr Undersecretary, because you have also shown this towards our birth points, so I am sure that you will take account of this situation, which is in favour of sports practice and I would also like to say about safety. Because then, if societies feel valued and warn that the norm allows them to respect it, they do it; but if they feel that the norm is too dangerous, they try to escape responsibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u13	Following is the question 3-02912 on the closure of two Simply SMA stores in the province of Parma. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u14	Madam President, I respond to the parliamentary act of Senator Pagliari concerning the employment situation of Simply SMA, a company owned by SMA SpA, belonging to the Auchan Group, with specific reference to the sales points of Salsomaggiore Terme and Fidenza. Last May 31, the Simply SMA communicated to the 38 workers concerned the closure of the sales points of Salsomaggiore Terme and Fidenza to date from next June 30. The reasons for this choice are mainly due to the fact that in recent years the two points of sale have recorded significant losses with an increasingly negative trend. The company also announced its intention to relocate 38 workers to certain points of sale in Milan's hinterland in order to safeguard employment levels. On 6 and 20 June, at the Province of Parma, two meetings were held within the framework of the interinstitutional table - convened by the President of the Province of Parma, as well as mayor of Salsomaggiore and the mayor of Fidenza - dealing with the situation of the 38 workers of the Simply SMA stores of Salsomaggiore Terme and Fidenza. At this meeting, the company leaders were the reasons for the decision to close the two points of sale, while the trade unions and representatives of the local institutions showed the low warning (one month) with which the workers were notified of the transfer to other points of sale (distance between 110 and 150 kilometers), with a sacrifice for some impossible to support. The trade union and institutional representatives therefore requested a three-month postponement of the closure of the two points of sale in order to assess the possibility of access to income support instruments and to relocate the 38 workers to other points of sale in the Parma Province, also belonging to other trade chains. The company leaders have reserved themselves to evaluate the request. I would also inform you that a new interinstitutional table is scheduled for tomorrow to be convened in order to reach an agreement which, in accordance with the commitments made by the parties at the end of the previous meeting, can define the modalities for the opening of a mobility procedure, the applicable income support instruments and measures for the relocation of workers. The trade union representatives reserved the right to submit to the vote of the workers' meeting the content of the possible agreement. In conclusion, in highlighting the merely local importance of the affair represented by this parliamentary act, I can however assure you that the Ministry I represent will continue to monitor the situation and to follow its evolution with the utmost attention, putting in place all the instruments provided for by the current legislation to safeguard employment levels.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u17	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Government and I am basically satisfied with the fact that the Government has given its attention especially to measures of assistance in mobility, because the negotiation that is going on will probably lead to a slippage of the deadline for closure, but measures will then be needed to support workers, because those who cannot be immediately relocated will have to be adequately protected.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u18	Following is the question 3-01561 on the custody of the gas distribution service in minimum territorial areas.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u19	Madam President, I would like to point out that the regulatory and regulatory framework for the natural gas distribution sector is now complete with the necessary elements for the start of the competitions for the assignment of the service, as already represented to the various actors involved and in different from the Ministry of Economic Development. In addition to the ministerial decrees governing the tendering criteria, the guidelines referred to in the same question, and adopted by ministerial decree of 22 May 2014, have provided the operating procedures to be followed in determining the refund value due to the outgoing managers at the time of the award of the tender for the assignment of the service (the so-called VIR). With reference to the appeal against the TAR Lazio, proposed by some operators in respect of this measure, I declare that on 28 April 2016 the hearing was held before the administrative judge, but the judgment has not yet been published. However, the effectiveness of the contested guidelines has not been suspended and some competitions have been launched. Moreover, just to take into account some difficulties encountered in these first initiatives, a further extension to the final deadlines for the publication of notices by decree-law of 30 December 2015, n. 210, converted with amendments by the law of 25 February 2016, n. 21. I would like to point out that the difficulties encountered by local authorities and contracting stations in the preparation and completion of tenders seem to be caused not by a regulatory fact, but rather by the determination of the VIR in conflict with local dealers. Also with regard to the regulatory framework established by the Authority for Electricity, Gas and Water, it is complete with the necessary elements for the verification of tariff data, as well as the formulation of the industrial plan to be offered in the tender. It should be noted that in the draft competition law (Senate Act 2085), currently under discussion in the Senate Commissions, the rapporteurs, in agreement with the Government, have tabled an amendment that provides for the introduction of certain speeding-up mechanisms of the screening of the calls and of the VIR-RAB deviations to the Authority for Electricity, Gas and Water System, where these notices are obviously consistent with the current regulatory and regulatory framework. This amendment incorporates, inter alia, the indications provided jointly by the Electricity, Gas and Water Authority and the Competition and Market Authority in a recent report. In conclusion, I think it can be assumed that the time is ripe for the start of the races without further waiting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u22	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Dear Secretary, thank you for your reply, but we still have concerns. There are some points - as I understand from his words - that should be better exemplified. Therefore, we will understand better, also with the draft competition law and with the amendment referred to, what will be the positive effects that will be made in facilitating and shortening the times of the races. Therefore, we are basically dissatisfied. It is true that some calls for tender are finally ready, but the combination of uncertainties on the assessment of refunds for installations, too short a time to resolve local conflicts and disputes on the guidelines will continue to make the tendering procedures cumbersome and to produce appeals. We believe it is a coincidence that one of the first races held - that of the Municipality of Venice - has already been suspended by the TAR last May and similar difficulties are expected for the races of important municipalities such as Turin, Milan, Varese, Rome, and others. In essence, all the critical elements that we pointed out in our question are still present and there is no solution. The delays that will affect most of the races, caused by the appeals, poor attractiveness of the tariff revenues, refunds and various litigations, will only create damage to the companies involved and the municipalities themselves. The ability to govern with clear indications and clear choices this phase of passage in the custody of natural gas distribution services for minimum territorial areas has been totally lacking. And those who spend it are the freedom of competition, the industrial plans of small and large companies in the sector, the workers involved that the left continues to defend in words, but to penalize in fact. In the end, citizens also pay for it. There is another assessment to be made, albeit in principle: all the revenues that the new races should have brought to the municipalities and, therefore, the related investments on services in the territories will be lacking. The consequent taxes will be missed for the State and, above all, all the gains that would have had to enter the enterprises for the reimbursements of the plants and the consequent investments that would have created wealth and occupation. Reaffirming our dissatisfaction, we conclude by stressing that, once again, we are faced with wrong and contradictory choices that do not go in the direction of helping development and competitiveness, but which complicate and penalise the lives of businesses, municipalities and, above all, citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u23	Following is the question 0-32720 on the construction of a power plant on the island of Favignana, in the province of Trapani. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u24	Madam President, the response elements for Senator Santangelo are of the following nature, also on the basis of information acquired by the Energy and Environmental Services Fund (CSEA). In implementation of the article, paragraph 6-g, of the decree-law 23 December 2013, n. 145, converted with amendments by the law 21 February 2014, n. 9, the Ministry of Economic Development is preparing the decree to identify the provisions for a process of progressive coverage of the needs of the smaller islands not interconnected through energy from renewable sources. Minor islands not interconnected represent a particular reality, characterized by delicate ecosystems and therefore protected, great variability of the demand for energy during the year, communications with the mainland that under adverse climatic conditions can be difficult. The continuity of the service has been ensured so far with a regulation that recognizes the specificities of the islands, both in terms of the organization of the supply chain (production, distribution, sale), and regarding the recognition of the greater costs of the supply, through tariff integrations, established from the Authority for the electricity, gas and the water system (EEEGSI) and placed to the generality of the electric users. Given the specificity and variability of the situations - as I have reported - found in the smaller islands, it was considered appropriate to carry out a special study, entrusted to Research on the energy system - RSE SpA, which provided useful elements for a better finalization of the decree. The study has provided not only an adequate picture of the structure of current electricity production, but also useful indications on consumption, availability of local renewable resources, the scenarios for the diffusion of renewable sources and their economic effects. Moreover, the technological development of renewable sources and the consequent cost reduction now make available options that, to the extent possible to ensure the security of the system, can ensure the progressive coverage of demand with renewable sources, using, where necessary, the lower expenditure resulting from the reduction of traditional production that - as mentioned - is supported with specific supplements burdening electricity bills. That being said, within a few months the legislation implementing Decree-Law No 145 of 2013 should be completed, which will constitute the reference framework for the promotion of the coverage of the energy needs of the smaller islands not interconnected with the continent through renewable sources. With regard to the financing of the new plant in the island of Favignana, as far as the Ministry of Economic Development is concerned, there is no project financed in favour of SEA Favignana under the programme POI Energia. With regard to the above-mentioned tariff integration mechanism applied to electricity companies operating in certain smaller islands and to which SEA Favignana SpA is also subject, I would point out that the system provides that the CSEA (Cassa per i servizi energi e ambienti), after investigating the company's balance sheet data, will reinstate in a given year the higher costs incurred in the previous year, as found in accounting in the financial statements (subject of course to certification). The mechanism is based on the need, at the same rate in the national territory, to offset the extra costs of management incurred and not otherwise recoverable in reality disadvantaged (in the case, the smaller islands not interconnected characterized by costs of production or management more important than the mainland). In essence, the Cassa re-integrates the extra cost incurred in the form of tariff integration in favour of the undertakings admitted to the scheme, in order to allow for a balance sheet and only on final data (the disbursements are, for reasons of continuity, at bimonthly intervals with annual adjustments). The mechanism described does not provide for any form of anticipation and/or grant under any circumstances, without prejudice to any specific needs identified on a case-by-case basis and only if provided by the Authority for Electricity, Gas and Water System) as Cassa Governor and Supervisory Administration. At present SEA Favignana has received the balance of tariff integration for the year 2012 and the Cassa per i servizi energetiche e ambientale is waiting for the approval by the Authority of regulation of the rate for the integration tariff to match for the year 2013. As the balance adjustments are based on the corresponding year's balance sheet data, the costs incurred up to 2013 are currently being met, thus relating to periods prior to the implementation of the new plant, which is the subject of the question. For subsequent years SEA receives two-monthly payments, based on the latest rates defined according to the general mechanism applicable to all undertakings admitted to the cost reintegration scheme. Therefore, it does not seem correct to say that the Energy and Environmental Services Fund financed the project. Evidence that, if the company had licenses (in the specific case of the province) - without prejudice to the requirement by Cassa for energy services to verify the alignment of the costs of realization to the market costs and the congruence of the plant with the local context - the CSEA would recognize the costs of construction of the same plant according to the normal criteria of attribution to budget. The guiding criterion is, in fact, the need to guarantee the continuity and reliability of the supply of electricity on the island under conditions similar to the rest of the national territory and at national single supply prices. Finally, given the island's proximity to the mainland, it was considered appropriate to deepen the prospects of achieving, at sustainable costs, the interconnection of the island's electricity grid with the national electricity system. In this respect, a preliminary assessment of the technical feasibility of the electrical connection and its costs has already been carried out. It is considered, however, necessary to proceed to ulterior deepenings, in particular the economic aspects of the intervention in relation to the potential benefits and the operating modalities more suitable for the realization of the interconnection, also through the involvement of the subjects owners of the service of transport and distribution of the electricity in the territory of Sicily. Last but not least, Senator Santangelo, as learned from the competent direction of the Ministry of Economic Development, that SEA of Favignana would temporarily suspend the construction of the power plant on the island in order to verify the feasibility of an intervention aimed at a wider use of renewable sources.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u27	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Gentile for his reply, but I cannot be satisfied at all, first of all because the data provided show that he has probably answered another question and not the one I have submitted, showing that he is not aware of the facts that are taking place. Let me explain briefly that in Favignana - let's talk about the province of Trapani, Sicily, and therefore in Italy - there is a diesel power station and it was thought to build another one. I will look into all the steps relating to the financing that you mentioned later, because I did not understand if it came from the Energy and Environmental Services Fund. You say no, but there's probably funding for other routes. Having said that, we want to build another power station to produce 20 megawatts, when there is already another one, among other things highly polluting, so much so that it is used only for a third of the power available. SEA receives funding of EUR 235,000 from the European Union to check whether it is polluting and EUR 185,000 have already been financed. The European Union itself requires Italy, as a member of the Union, to use 100% of renewable energy by 2050. I wonder, therefore, how we can continue to finance diesel power stations of this kind, since they are polluting. In his reply, Undersecretary, he cites as a reference of very interesting studies and also speaks of interconnection. It's very simple: it's only eight miles. Therefore, instead of spending 235,000 euros, you could use that money in that direction. In Trapani there is a wind farm - in this regard the judicial reports, which in part also concern the mafia, are well known - which dumps energy into surplus, which, among other things, could be addressed to Favignana. Among other things, refer also to a fanciful project that SEA would be developing. I would have liked a precise reference in this regard from the Undersecretary or the person who wrote the reply, since the information relating to the project is available on the Internet. I just give you one figure, Mr. Undersecretary, and then I finish my speech. The diesel power plant should produce 20 megawatts; these subjects declare that the power plant will be transformed and will be hybrid - for those who follow us from outside, hybrid means that in part it is diesel and in part renewable energy - and they will put a 500 kilowatt plant on the roof, because it already exists, and therefore it is an apparently intelligent operation. But - listen - the plant will produce 700 megawatts, so Favignana will take off for energy power: 700 megawatts are something that is neither in heaven nor on earth. Just go and read the production data concerning the South and you will notice that 500 kilowatts can produce 2.25 megawatts. And so, I wonder what we're talking about. Mr Undersecretary, if there are no specific powers, we cannot continue to feed such projects which then go to the detriment of the energy costs we pay in bills. I would therefore like to make an invitation to you. I have given you two practical examples, the first of which is that of the pipeline that can be connected to the wind turbines that produce excess energy; the other is contained in draft laws that are currently being discussed in 13a. The Commission and the smaller islands themselves, and one of them is at my first signature. In those texts are indicated the methodologies to use renewable energy immediately, which you can copy. This time, therefore, copy something proactive and positive, rather than nonsense - forgive me the term - as you did.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u28	The questioning and questioning of the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u29	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-657.ana.u30	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 12 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.43 p.m.
