ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.42 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 22 September.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u4	PAGE (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 4.44 p.m. and resumed at 5.04 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u9	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the time limit of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 17.06).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u13	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders approved the new timetable for work until 3 November. In today's session, which will end at 6.30 p.m. in relation to the meeting of the People's Area Group, the draft law on criminal proceedings will continue to be examined, starting with the replies of the rapporteurs. At the beginning of tomorrow's afternoon sitting, the urgent deliberations requested by Senator Bonfrisco, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law on the return to the role of magistrates, guarantee of the legality of undertakings, legitimate defence in the places of private residence, public register of opposition to the processing of telephone numbers. We will then pass on to the examination of the draft laws in criminal matters and the related bill on cinema. Subsequently, the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the contested election of Senator Minzolini in the Liguria Region will be examined. In the afternoon session on Thursday 29 there will be a discussion of the motion on the "Casa Italia" project. Next week's calendar provides for the discussion of the 2015 Report and 2016 Settlement Bills, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the follow-up of the unfinished topics and the examination of the related drafts of law on competition and self-employment. The afternoon session on October 6th will be held on the question time. The schedule for the week from 11 to 13 October provides for the review of the Update Note to the DEF and the communications of the President of the Council with a view to the European Council on 20 and 21 October (Wednesday, 12 October at 3.30 p.m.). In the week from 18 to 20 October will be discussed the decree-law on the efficiency of the judicial offices, where transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies, and the ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs. In the afternoon session on Thursday, October 20th, the question time will be held. Finally, the weeks from 25 to 27 October and from 2 to 3 November provide for the follow-up of the unfinished topics and a further Question Time session on the afternoon of Thursday 3 November. The Conference of Leaders decided to devote to the discussion of motions - set out in the schedule of proceedings, as requested by the Groups, alternating requests for a majority and opposition - to the afternoon sessions of Tuesday 11, 18 and 25 October, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., with a harmonization of the deadlines for dealing with them. The afternoon sitting on Tuesday 11 October will begin at 5 p.m. This session will be preceded by a solemn ceremony in the Chamber, in which the President of the Senate will commemorate the figure of the President emeritus of the Republic Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, in the presence of the family members and the Head of State.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u14	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly from 27 September to 3 November 2016: [[Tuesday, September 27 pom. h. 16,30-18,30 - Following bill n. 2067 and related - Amendments to the penal code, to the penal procedure code and to the penitentiary order (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Deliberation on the statement of urgency, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, in relation to the draft law: - Drawing of law 2265 - Return to the roles of the magistrates - Drawing of law 2285 - Guarantee of the legality of the enterprises - Drawing of law 2315 - Legal defence in the places of private residence - Drawing of law 2452 - Public register of oppositions to the treatment of telephone numbers - Following bill 2287 and related - Discipline of cinema, audiovisual and entertainment (Linked to the maneuvering of public finances) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Doc. III, n. 2 - Report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the contested election of Senator Minzolini in the Liguria region - Motion n. 620, Vaccari, on the Casa Italia project (Thursday 29, 9.30 a.m.) Wednesday 28 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 29 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 29 September pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday 4 October pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law no. 2521 and 2522 - Report 2015 and Settlement 2016 (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final votes with the presence of the quorum) - Following arguments not concluded - Drawing of law n. 2085 - Annual law market and competition (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Contributed to the maneuvering of public finances) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 2233 and connected - Self-employment (Linked to the maneuvering of public finances) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) Wednesday 5 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 6 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 6 October pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law no. 2521 and 2522 (Report 2015 and Settlement 2016) will be established in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday, 11 October ant. h. 11-13 - Motion n. 626, De Petris, on public health campaigns - Motion n. 601, Bianconi, on the contrast to obesity Tuesday 11 October pom. h. 17-20 - Following unfinished topics - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 20 and 21 October 2016 (Wednesday 12, 15.30) Wednesday 12 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 15,30-20 Thursday 13 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 13 October pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The calendar of the week will be integrated with the examination of the Update Note to the 2016 Economy and Finance Document. [[Tuesday 18 October ant. h. 11-13 - Motion n. 619, Philippi, on local public transport in Rome - Motion n. 555, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, on the administration of drugs Tuesday 18 October pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following arguments not concluded - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 168, efficiency judicial offices (Ove transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 30 October 2016) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs Wednesday 19 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 20 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 20 October pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the bill n.... (Decree-Law n. 168, effective judicial offices) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Tuesday 25 October ant. h. 11-13 - Motion n. 627, Romani Paolo, in the matter of immigration - Motion n. 406, Marinello, on the adaptation of water infrastructure Tuesday 25 October pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following arguments not concluded (*) Wednesday 26 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " 26" " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 27 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 27 October pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [Bleep] [[Wednesday 2 November pom. h. 16,30-20 - Follow-up to unfinished topics (*) Thursday, 3rd ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 3 November pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] ******** (*) List of other topics not concluded provided for in the timetable approved on 27 July 2016 Draft law n. 1881 and related - Institution Commission of inquiry on public procurement Doc. XXII n. 5 - Institution Committee of Inquiry into Seismic Events in Abruzzo Drawing of Law n. 2092 and related - Provisions on Citizenship (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) Following draft law n. 10-362-388-395-849-874-B - Crime of Torture (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) Draft law n. 119 and related - Parks and protected areas Breakdown of times for discussion of draft laws n. 2287 and related (Discipline of cinema, audiovisual and entertainment) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 44' AP (NCD-UDC) 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 34' AL-A 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']] Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. 2521 and 2522 (Recount 2015 and Settlement 2016) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 8' FI-PdL XVII 35' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 29' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 23' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2085 (annual market law and competition) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 44' AP (NCD-UDC) 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 34' AL-A 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2233 and related (Autonomous work) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 44' AP (NCD-UDC) 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 34' AL-A 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII, n. 4-a (Note of update to the 2016 Economy and Finance Document) (5 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: PD 41' FI-PdL XVII 21' M5S 19' AP (NCD-UDC) 17' Mixed 17' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 15' AL-A 14' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 13' LN-Aut 12' COR 12' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 20 and 21 October 2016 (3 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 2 hours and 30 minutes, of which: PD 34' FI-PdL XVII 17' M5S 16 AP (NCD-UDC) 14' Mixed 14' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 12' AL-A 12' GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 11' LN-Aut 10' COR 10' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 168, efficiency of judicial offices) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 8' FI-PdL XVII 35' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 29' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 23' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u17	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, before we consider the timetable, I would like it to remain with the acts that we voted on when we checked the quorum, after it had been missed a first time, precisely because we believe it is time to bring out the majority of this measure. We consider this to be a bad measure, but we think it appropriate that we talk about it and, at this point, see if the majority does not have the numbers to approve it and then evaluate it accordingly. We do not agree with this timetable, for the very simple reason that there are some measures that have been at stake for a very long time. One of these is the Senate Act 803 ('Provisions concerning the identification of members of the Forces of Order') which has already been scheduled in this Chamber and done by the Mixed Group in accordance with Article 53, paragraph 3, of which we believe it is necessary to conclude the examination, since the measure has been in standby for several months. We would also like to ask that a measure which is of great interest to us, the Senate Act 1148, concerning the establishment of citizenship income, be included in the agenda of the House. We therefore call for these two measures to be included. In addition, I would like to stigmatize that Law 163 of 4 August 2016 states precisely that the DEF Update Note must be submitted to the Chambers by 27 September of each year for subsequent parliamentary deliberations. It is true that 27 September has not yet ended, however, since the sitting will end at 6.30 p.m., we would like to stigmatize the fact that the Government promotes these laws, but then is unable to comply with them. It is also a bit difficult to ask citizens to comply with the laws, if the government itself and Parliament do not respect them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u20	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we have tabled a number of very precise proposals to be included in the timetable. I begin immediately with a motion which has been scheduled a long time ago, on October 11th, of which we ask instead for the calendarization for next Thursday. I am referring to Amendment No 626 which deals with a matter which has been discussed a great deal in recent days, namely the Fertility Day campaign, with all its annexes and links. I believe that it would be absolutely necessary for this House not only to deepen the dynamics and choices of that advertising campaign, but also to reiterate the situation. What does it mean today to launch a serious initiative to overcome the demographic problems of the country? Obviously, these are not choices that a woman can operate only if she sees an advertising billboard, but the need to invest in welfare policies and policies to support women's work and employment. I think it would be absolutely necessary for this debate to take place quickly. It is not that we can have discussions every time, Mr President, one month after the events have taken place, especially since the campaign, as you know, has even ended with a racist manifesto. As we learn from the President-in-Office that it would be the ministerial and not the Minister's fault, I believe that it would be absolutely necessary to schedule the motion immediately, immediately, for next Thursday, because I believe that it is necessary not to waste time and finally start and continue the debate on the amendments to the penal code. There is another issue which can be dealt with in the weeks from 25 to 27 October and from 2 to 3 November. In these days there have been two alarming episodes that have involved a famous reality show and other episodes, among other things very serious, have happened recently always in relation to the homophobic culture, which unfortunately is not defeated. I would like to remind the House that the draft law passed in the House in October has been in the Justice Commission for two years now, so perhaps it would be time to put it back on schedule. I then refer to the same question raised by my colleague from the 5 Star Movement concerning the identification of the Forces of Order. We waited for the measure, which had already been brought to the House, then returned to the Commission, then we expected the commitment of Minister Alfano, who would have to adopt an unidentified measure on safety in cities. It is in fact that the measure is firm. Well, I think it is time, at last, since the amendments in the Commission have already been discussed and therefore the measure is practically ready, to put it back on schedule. In all this, Mr President, I believe that sometimes it would be appropriate for the opposition's proposals to be taken into account. In particular, I believe that the time has come, after months and months, years and years, to finally be able to discuss the draft laws in the Chamber. I see that there is time to do everything and that Thursday we are debating, rightly, the motions on the earthquake. So, when you want to, you can safely find space for a serious debate on issues that really affect and affect citizens. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u23	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have asked on more than one occasion for the inclusion in the timetable of the work of draft law No 112, on the disciplinary responsibility of the magistrates, dismissed by the Justice Commission, at the initiative of the then President Palma, the beauty of three years ago, on 11 September 2013. It has been requested on more than one occasion at the Conference of the Leaders, but we have never had a positive response. We are now running for him to be included on the agenda, hoping that the measure will not end the Manzoni screams and will not be judged excessively aged, since it has been three years since, in my opinion, it is necessary to address it. I would also like to reiterate here an issue which has little to do with the timetable, Mr President, and which concerns the issue of the renewal of the anti-Mafia Commission. It is your decision, but it is not your decision, since it is the responsibility of the leaders to indicate the members of the anti-Mafia Commission. We do not participate in this Commission because we can never renew the composition, but having put the problem at the Conference of the Leaders, it seems to me that no opposition has been raised by the other Leaders. I therefore ask officially, so that it remains in the minutes, that the group leaders promptly (even if President Zanda is not listening to me) equip themselves to designate the members (then the appointment is his exclusive competence). One final remark: we take note of the decision to examine motions every Tuesday in the coming weeks, between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.; because we want the examination to take place, since one of the motions is from the opposition and the other is from the majority, we would like the gentlemen's agreement that we established at the Conference of the Leaders to be confirmed. We shall be able to examine and vote on motions, I suppose, provided that this gentlemen's agreement is maintained, namely - you know what I am referring to - that we do not ask for the quorum to be checked for those two hours, otherwise we will do a completely unnecessary exercise.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u26	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, in expressing our regret once again for the lack of sharing between opposition and the majority of a timetable that can include the right Government's need to see the proposed texts approved, I also renew our disappointment at this occasion for a procedure that, due to the government's forcings, results in delays and delays in this Senate Chamber when the government serves and accelerates when Parliament needs to evaluate, perhaps more carefully, certain aspects and some legislative proposals. In the full schedule that you have proposed to us, as I have already said at the Conference of the Leaders, I find that there are some gaps which I think need to be filled quickly at the substantial resumption of activities. I believe that in the fact that the House is expressing itself on certain issues, regardless of the draft laws presented, perhaps relating to the subject of certain motions or very important questions, related to the topicality of the issues which concern Italian citizens, although this is a requirement to be reconciled with that of the Government, there is the will and conscience of this House of a role which must be played. That is why, in registering once again a calendar for the use and consumption of the Government, I presented at the Conference of the Leaders the request for the statement of urgency of certain texts. You have already listed them and I do not waste any time in the House commenting on them further. I would add to this, in addition to the many issues raised by many (sure not only to my own), the request that through you we address to the Minister of Economic Affairs and the President of the Council for this House to be informed of what has happened, what is happening and what will happen, from here to a few weeks, of one of the most important Italian banks that is at the center of an important judicial investigation, but also of a very important financial speculation to the detriment of our country. I find it very serious that this House does not have the right to know how the effects of this matter will soon reverberate on the lives of all of us and, above all, on our economy. I have already pointed out that there has been a survey of the Italian banking system in the Finance Committee for more than a year, which was supposed to replace the Commission of Inquiry into the Italian banking system, which I believe was requested by almost all the groups in this House, because there were 13 draft laws deposited in this respect. We continue to investigate, but in investigating and investigating, in the meantime, the Italian banks are, on the one hand, under attack and, on the other, they must answer for their incorrect actions where there have been. It seems obvious to me that the Government wants to keep Parliament in the dark: the answers given by the Government to the Chamber of Deputies are at the limit of the ridicule. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to be an active member of all of us in asking the Minister for Economic Affairs, at the very least, to come and report to Parliament. Thank you for having wished to include the statement of urgency in those times, so that today the Government will assume its responsibility in front of the Assembly, convened at 4:30 p.m. to proceed with the legislative text already before Parliament. I am glad that the manfriend of the legal numbers ended after a single blow: the government speaks, takes on its responsibilities and then let this Senate do its job with the conscience and responsibility of all time. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by wishing that, after the events I have mentioned to you, other equally important issues also put to the attention of other group leaders, they will finally be able to find the right debate in this House. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u29	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, thank you for your willingness, knowing that the Roman leader has already spoken. I believe that more attention should be paid to the famous question and questioning, which still remains largely unanswered. In this sense I take advantage of the presence of the Undersecretary Pizzetti, since there had been a formal public commitment to have more attention in responding to the inspection union, fundamental for the activity of the Senate. Once again, therefore, I would like to draw attention to the need for more time to be devoted to questions and questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u30	Senator Amidei, I'd like to remind you that two Thursdays ago you dedicated an entire afternoon to the inspection union. You can continue with this scheme to try to concentrate interrogations and questions. In this sense, we await the availability of the Government. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work, which aims to bring forward to 29 September the debate on a motion on Fertility Day, which has already been scheduled for 11 October. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, since I have serious doubts as my hands are up, we are asking for a counterproof. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't have any doubts, but I still give you the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to include the debate on draft legislation. In the event of acceptance, proposals for the inclusion of individual measures will be put to the vote. Verification of Calderoli quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the agenda of the president's session. I shall put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the discussion of draft legislation. It's not approved. With regard to Senator Bonfrisco's request for information, we will ask the government to give us notice; I do not think we need to vote. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u33	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, my proposal to amend the timetable was not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u34	Senator, you asked for the introduction of the bill on the liability of magistrates. We voted in general on the inclusion of draft legislation, so there was no specific vote. So I said and I think I made myself clear. If there had been an approval, we would have gone to the vote on the detail.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u37	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, only a few days ago Marco Conti passed away and his death left us all dismayed. Abruzzo and Italy have lost in fact a great personality, a thoroughbred Abruzzo, a man caught with a quick pen and a tender heart. Even today I seem to see him in the armchairs of the Italian room, sitting with his friend, Sergio Zavoli, at his side, chatting about everything. Sergio Zavoli would have liked to be here with us today to remember him with love and respect. Marco Conti was Senator of the Republic until 1994, elected in the ranks of Christian Democracy which, in 1994, became a People's Party. Journalist, public administrator in Avezzano, Marco Conti left us at 82 years of age, after fighting a long illness. An active man in the profession, strong, capable in journalism, very skilled in politics and stubborn defender of the Abruzzo people here in the Senate. He seemed to be doing the good of others and often suggested me in these corridors and proposed to deal with men or women in difficulty, with politeness and respect. He was born in Trasacco, he had moved to study in Avezzano, then he had come to Rome, where he had begun his journalistic career, from "Il Messaggero" to "AGI" and then to "RAI," then to the head of parliamentary and executive chronicler. Two years ago, for his eighty years, an extraordinary festival was organized, a festival of people, because he was a man of the people, in the castle Orsini of Avezzano, who loved him so much. Marco Conti was a kind man, but with a great liveliness, and in the lively and gritty speech he emerged and brought out his soul of Abruzzo with his indulgence in the beautiful dialect of his land. During the passing of his life he tasted and loved his native land, Trasacco, and the whole love for Abruzzo has always been his daily bread. It was lively in political confrontation when Christian Democracy and the Communist Party faced each other in Rome and Abruzzo. Now more than ever, I remember his preparation, his culture and his grit, his magnificent person and his strength; an ethics, his, simple and just. We finally shared the common work for the centenary of his Marsica, celebrated last year. We were together on the promoter committee and I am a direct witness to his commitment and dedication with his friend Franco Marini. He helped me at that juncture to organize, with grace and respect, the press conference. He was a man who had seen so many of them, but this knowledge of him was only charisma and wisdom, not ostentation and never distrust or drastic judgment on the younger generations. Our heartfelt condolences go to his beloved wife Elvi Maccari and his children Luca and Marzia. We will always remember him and forever with respect and endless affection. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u40	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to speak on the same subject, out of cultural attraction: I was a young Christian Democrat when Senator Conti militated in Christian Democracy and, together with Senator Ruffilli, in Forlì, held large conferences on culture, on youth formation and also on information, an issue which, even then, was extremely complex and delicate. Mr President, I would like to leave a few brief reminders to the House. It is true that he was elected senator in 1992 and for some young senator it may seem an era ago. However, I think it is important to remember the people who leave this land and who have served with passion and dedication in this Parliament, remembering that they have worked with professionalism, investing all their abilities in the construction of the common good, right here in this House, where we try to do our best, for the good of the citizens. My memory is therefore not stale, Mr President, but it is the living memory of our colleagues, who have worked here and are militant. Senator Conti was a very precious man, where he worked, that is in his beloved Abruzzo and RAI, where he had placed at the center the attention for proper communication and for the truth of communication. We miss him, Mr President, because those who have listened to him can only remember his passion and his adherence to the reality and problems of his fellow citizens. So let them go to him a remembrance and a prayer and the most vivid condolences to his wife and children. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u43	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, allow me to be grateful to Mrs Pezzopane and Mrs Bianconi. I was a colleague of Marco Conti, in this House, from 1992 to 1994, in a different parliamentary group, but with a great deal of friendship. He remained for other legislatures here in the Senate and we all remember him at the side of Sergio Zavoli, as his collaborator. This was the last period of the journalist Marco Conti. In his career as a journalist, however, his period of greater glory, or at least of greater fame, which had paved the way for him to apply for the Senate in his Abruzzo had coincided with the time when, with much prestige, he worked as head of the press office of the Minister of the Interior. The minister of that time, Senator Gava, had so much appreciated him, that he had suggested to run for office in the Senate, in Abruzzo, in the 1992 elections, more or less with the same impetus with which, in the previous elections, Cyriaco De Mita had wanted an unfortunate professor, who was killed by the Red Brigade - also recalled by my colleague Bianconi in his speech - as a candidate in Emilia-Romagna. Marco Conti was a lovable and very smiling man, but he had lived with deep bitterness the humiliation of Christian Democracy, perhaps unjust, suffered between 1992 and 1994. Hence his desire to remain attached to the life of the Senate. He was a collaborator of Francesco D'Onofrio from 2001 to 2006 and, following his journalistic experience, Sergio Zavoli wanted him with him for the Presidency of the Commission and as head of the library. Farewell Marco, from today many in the Senate we feel more alone. [[Applause from the CoR and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u46	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to remind our colleagues here of a genuine Abruzzo. Marco Conti was born in Trasacco, a small Municipality of Marsica. Despite having had a brilliant career as a journalist - I want to remember that Abruzzo has given many important journalists of which we still have living examples like Gianni Letta and Bruno Vespa - this man has never forgotten his sense of belonging to Abruzzo, so much so that often in the conferences he remembered his birthplace and the places of Abruzzo dear to him. We lost a big pen and a big man, but I, in particular, lost, despite a fairly considerable age difference, a true friend. I agree with what my colleagues have said so far. He was a man who gave Abruzzo great fame.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u49	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, with emotion we would like to express our closeness to the family, to the wife and to the children. I met Marco Conti mainly as a journalist. He was a great professional who taught many in RAI the job itself. Above all, he was a man who, even in recent times, kept coming to the Senate to make his contribution and suggestions. It was important for his land, which he loved very much. In all these years he has tried, both as a senator, but above all in his main activity as a journalist, to make his contribution for that land and, not only, for Trasacco and Avezzano. I would also like to remind you of your commitment immediately after the tragedy of the Eagle earthquake. He was very close to my husband, and I know that my husband would also say goodbye to him. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]] I once again express all my solidarity and my condolences. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u50	I invite the senators to observe a minute of recollection in memory of Senator Marco Conti. [[The President stands up and with him the whole Assembly, who observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u51	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2067, 1844 and 2032, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 176, 209, 286, 299, 381, 382, 384, 385, 386, 387, 389, 468, 581, 597, 609, 614, 700, 708, 709, 1008, 1113, 1456, 1587, 1681, 1682, 1683, 1684, 1693, 1713, 1824, 1905, 1921, 1922, 2103, 2295 and 2457. I would remind you that the general debate ended in the afternoon sitting on 22 September. I call the rapporteur, Senator Casson.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u52	Mr President, I will do a first part of the reply because the second part will be taken care of by Mr Cucca. I will focus in particular on some of the fundamental issues that we discussed, especially during the general discussion, which was very broad, in-depth and particularly articulated. For this reason, we must also thank the speakers who have enriched the debate and the assessments on this subject. I simply recall in premise that the bill n. 2067 had arrived in the Senate again in September 2015, among other things with announcements in some cases even excessively roboating, as if it were a general modification of the substantive penal code or the code of criminal law. But already at first reading, it was clear that this bill, which came from the House of Deputies, certainly contained a set of positive rules on these matters, as well as on the subject of penitentiary law, but that equally certainly there would have been a need to intervene in the Commission in a thorough manner and also, possibly, during the work of the Assembly, precisely because of the sensitivity and extent of the matters dealt with. The examination of this draft law basically began in the Justice Commission at the beginning of March of this year and has also led to significant enlargements and improvements of the text. At the end of the Commission's work, on 1 August this year, a unified text was adopted and, in some parts, there was also a declaration of intent aimed at completing and deepening some sensitive and controversial issues in the course of the Assembly's work. This, in fact, has begun to be done with the presentation of some 400 amendments tabled, and this has been done mainly in the context of a very broad and detailed general debate. There is no doubt that some, or different, of these issues deserve an in-depth evaluation and even a possible decision. It is enough to recall some of these issues, which have to do, first of all, with the rules of the criminal trial, of the appeal process, of the agreement in the appeal, as it was recalled, of the relations between politics and the mafia, of violence against minors and the weakest people, of prohibition from public offices, of prosecution, of the rights and faculties of the people in prison, of telephone interceptions and of the so-called REMS, that is, the residences of execution for security measures (in simple words, those that were once called psychiatric judicial hospitals). Of course, it will not be possible to deal with everything, even if we try to do so and, above all, during the course of the work, it will not be possible to intervene on each of these points. I would like to turn to one of the main issues I have mentioned: first of all, the issue of telephone and environmental interceptions, on which several senators have addressed themselves. On the other hand, in no part of the text approved in the Justice Commission and which we present to the Senate Assembly, there is an imitation of the investigative powers of the judicial police and the judiciary. For my part and also for my competence, I challenge anyone to find anything in this regard, because clearly and clearly since the beginning of the examination of the draft law in the Commission it was limited to addressing and deepening the issue of the deposit of the transcripts of the interceptions, the specific theme of the hoaxes and the regime of their advertising, with particular attention to the constitutionally protected aspects. It is true that a draft law that wanted to intervene on the whole matter, rewriting it and regulating it ex novo, was considered by the President (and voted by the Commission) not relevant and therefore not combined with the unified text proposed by the rapporteurs. From the Chamber of Deputies a text of delegation had arrived to the Government that seemed in itself too shrunk, which granted an excessively wide delegation, perhaps to the limits of unconstitutionality. For this reason, with an amendment by the rapporteurs approved in the Commission, this delegation has been delimited and, above all, more specific and precise criteria and directives have been laid down for the exercise of the delegation. It is no coincidence that during the general discussion, some of the speakers complained about the excessive rigidity of the principles and, instead, someone else felt that this delegation was still too broad and indefinite. Since this is a very sensitive area of the relationship between the needs of security, investigation and the protection of the privacy of the person, together with the safeguarding of the right of defence, which is also constitutionally guaranteed, the Commission has proposed a text which is considered to be balanced, which does not, moreover, violate the sacrosanct principle of freedom of the press. In this connection, I would remind you that an amendment by the rapporteurs approved in the Commission imposed compliance with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights; decisions which are very clear for all, now univocal, and which go to protect the right of information and information as a prerequisite for democratic states to contend with investigative secrecy, with the right to privacy of persons, with the presumption of innocence, but without being able to scratch its core. In this regard, I make an explicit reference to point (c) of Article 35 (1). Because of the proximity of matter, it is necessary to deal with the question of what have been defined, including in the rules, as computer recorders. The rules fall under Title IV, which is Article 35 of the text that we propose to the Assembly, number 1 (e). Also on this part of the bill of delegation to the Government, the opinions of the speakers in the Senate (but not only, also on the media, experts of law and operators in the sector) were very conflicting precisely because of the interests opposed at times at stake: on the one hand, there were those who demanded greater rigidity and determination in the name of constitutional principles that I will shortly remember, on the other hand, even by some prosecutor, there were some who would prefer not to regulate anything at all. I do not think that it has been sufficiently considered what technology has been permitting for years. As rapporteurs - and the Commission has supported this approach by voting on an amendment - we have spoken in an area which is not new in practice, including judicial and forensic. For years, in fact, this technology has allowed us to intervene in very sensitive areas of the private life of each of us. This is not, therefore, a question of creating ex-novo standards to invent a new computer control technology. As I said, technology exists and is already widely used. However, precisely because of its extreme pervasiveness and, in some cases, intrusiveness, these aspects require the legislator to intervene and fix stakes. It is clear that cyber criminals have used and will continue to use these tools, but, precisely for this reason, as in the age of telephone interceptions and, then, environmental ones, it is necessary that the legislator intervenes and that it does not leave free and open absolutely to operators and technicians, because fundamental constitutional values are at stake. I turn to the demonstration of what I am saying, namely the need to act as legislators. I remember that for years now the judiciary and the police have used these instruments, so much so that the trials have arrived on several occasions up to the level of the Court of Cassation and, in some cases, there has also been conflicting and conflicting legal solutions. Can it be done? Can't it be done? What can be done? To what extent? According to what criteria? By complying with what standards? The fact is that the rules were not there and just the subsequent intervention of the Court of Cassation to criminal united sections makes us understand how are necessary specific interventions of the legislator precisely in order to resolve the jurisprudential contrasts of summit that we have seen happen on more than one occasion, among other things creating difficulties also to the investigations and investigations of the judiciary and the judicial police. We rapporteurs and the Commission have started with a proposed regulatory regulation modelled on the rules of environmental interceptions and in accordance with the spirit of the Supreme Court of Cassation ruling in joined sections, but bearing in mind that the use of computer receivers, precisely because more invasive compared to the same environmental interceptions and potentially more devastating, would require more carefulness and legal and technical prudence. Have we achieved this goal? Have we achieved this constitutional balance? There has certainly been a discussion on this issue, including by some senators who have welcomed the amendment tabled. Of course, there are other amendments that should be considered. This is a debate that could also be useful in such a matter, which is still in a training phase for law. I would remind you of some of the proposals put forward, including that of extending the possibility of using these captors to the case of the association for simple crime and to the cases of more serious crimes of the public administration. Of course, the debate is open, but the legislator must certainly give a first regulatory response. Another delicate point (in some ways, in my view, even more delicate, even if not strongly perceived at the level of general public opinion) is related to the notifications in the criminal process, which we rapporteurs had proposed to do by certified e-mail, using the modern tools of technology and computer science. Frankly, I have to say that I personally cannot understand this stop and go in the matter of criminal notifications. I said that we had proposed in the Commission that we should leave the era of criminal notifications made almost again on horseback, with medieval systems, in order to enter the modern era of certified e-mail and computer science. Two innovative amendments had been tabled in this House; perhaps they have been taken on board and I do not know whether they will be discussed, but they will certainly be discussed again if we move forward at the next stage. I just remember that in this area Europe is literally facing Italy with a serious digital delay. Our country in this field is in 25th place in Europe, although it should be remembered that, legally, in the field of justice we are not exactly the last places. In Italy, for example, civil processes are already telematic, thanks to the work carried out in a convincing way in this Senate, the administrative process, the tax process and only in part the criminal one. Then you might wonder why notifications are not yet telematic. We have not heard of it in detail at the moment in this House, whereas in the Commission we had considered a number of amendments positively, including oppositions; in fact, it has been included in the text tabled as amendments to the House and I do not know whether it will be discussed. I would not like the interests of certain shops of law to prevail in this situation. With regard to some other specific issues, I would like to say a few words on a very sensitive subject, which has also come to the honours of the news today and in recent days. I am referring to the intervention proposed by the Commission in the field of penitentiary law. There have been several interventions in this regard, also conflicting among them, including those of Senator Lumia and Senator Giarrusso. I have the impression that someone inside this Senate, but above all outside, has not read the texts of parliamentary work in the Justice Commission and perhaps has read the text of Article 36 of the bill misread or rushed. When this delegation is given to the Government for the reform of the penitentiary order and to intervene in a more civil and more modern way on the whole of this sector, at first instance, in the first paragraph of Article 36, it is written: Without prejudice to Article 41-a of the Law of 26 July 1975 (...), as Senator Lumia pointed out in detail when he intervened. This was not accidental, because we had debated it during our work in the Commission, saying in particular that it was appropriate to reiterate this principle, precisely in order to prevent misunderstandings, and this, despite the conflicting positions, is still taking place. I remember two other letters of this article 36, paragraph 1, in particular letter b), which refers to the revision of the modalities and assumptions of access to alternative measures, and letter e), which refers to the elimination of automatisms and foreclosures that prevent or delay the individualization of the reeducational treatment and the differentiation of the penitentiary paths. In both cases, reference is always made to categories that are considered as exceptions and that are those of the most serious crimes, because they are written in point (b): "except for cases of exceptional gravity and danger and in particular for convictions for crimes of mafia and terrorism also international". The same wording is used in point (e). I believe that the letter is very clear and that the mandate that we give to the Government - and, if necessary, is made explicit in this sense, even at this moment, as a proxy - must be literally considered in these terms. There is a situation that needs to be dealt with differently, as the Constitutional Court has also confirmed, especially with regard to crimes of mafia and terrorism, including international terrorism. Another point I would like to touch on is that of the REMS, i.e. the residences that have to replace those that were once psychiatric judicial hospitals. I remember that on this point there was a tough battle within the Senate, even in the past legislature. At last we had come to the overcoming of psychiatric judicial hospitals; however lacks of structures and organization tend to bring back a little 'back the clock hand. There has been a debate in the Senate, with diversified and opposed amendments, so much so that at some point we have reached the formulation of an amendment shared not by everyone, but voted by a large majority in the Commission justice, precisely in order to try to recognize fundamental rights and to reaffirm that we must achieve the definitive and total overcoming of these situations, which sometimes risk reaching levels of civilisation. An amendment is proposed again - I do not know whether it will be dealt with or incorporated in what way - but it is a subject on which we certainly need to pay close attention. I shall also move on to the subject of Article 416b of the Criminal Code as quickly as possible. I would like to say to those who dispute the proposed wording that, right in the Senate, at the beginning of this legislature we contributed to a very large majority (almost all together) to broaden criminal conduct, to include the concepts of promise and other usefulness and to raise the penalty. It is obvious that there will be those who will never be happy and satisfied, but I believe that the rule presented, as it has also been amended in the draft law approved by the House of Deputies, has reached a balance that can be accepted. The last point I make before I give the floor to my colleague is about the prescription. It is certainly a very divisive issue, which sees me in a different position than that of the majority, since I did not vote in the Commission for the proposal that came from the House of Deputies. The fact and premise are as follows: every year 140,000 proceedings are required. The problem is what to do, how to intervene. There are essentially three solutions and they have all been proposed by various senators, beyond my personal position. The first is to do nothing, as someone proposed, in the sense of keeping the law so-called Cirielli, leave it as it is and move forward. The proposal coming from the Chamber of Deputies is a sort of majority compromise and divides the limitation periods: two years for the appeal and one year for the Court of Cassation; the Commission's proposal for justice speaks of eighteen months and eighteen months, but Senator Buccarella called it a warm cloth. Finally, there is a proposal which would like to create a diversified regime. I am convinced that the first answer to be given is a strong intervention on the structures and criminal proceedings, because prescription is something that comes next. And this must be the fundamental work of the Senate and the Government. In this regard, we must acknowledge the Minister of Justice for the work he is doing to try to bring within the world of personal justice, rules and structures that are able to respond to the need for justice, including criminal justice, of our country. We have seen, even recently, an attempt to cover thousands and thousands of missing places within the structures. And I think that's the key answer. I would like to add a few words about the new regime, because this is the first time that this has been discussed in the Senate and I believe that it should remain a record of it in the proceedings. One could start from a cancellation of the former law Cirielli and think of the institute of the prescription itself: the State has an interest in punishing when it becomes aware of a crime. And when the State, after a certain time limit, realizes that there is no longer, for various reasons, the punitive intention, can determine the time of cessation. I would remind you that, in some cases, the draft law under consideration makes changes to the statute of limitations on the beginning of the period. First of all, it is stated that this is confirmed for the crimes that provide for the unwritten: the massacres, the aggravated murders and all the most serious crimes. Secondly, there is a rule that provides, even for fourteen cases of crime in which the offended parties are minor, that the beginning of the limitation starts from the time of reaching the age of majority (in Germany part since the victim is thirty years old). Then there are special situations in our country, which I recalled during the initial phase; subtle, hidden situations of concealment of behavior, such as - for example - those of which yesterday, in another context, the president of the Republic Mattarella: the deaths of asbestos. It is known, after years and years, even tens of years, that a person died from asbestos. In dozens, indeed in hundreds of cases, it happened that the trials were declared prescribed because, when the asbestos death was reported, the crime was already prescribed. These are situations of injustice that are not - in my view - acceptable. The last point on which the new regime could intervene is the termination after the judgment at first instance. I already know that the proposal is different - we all know it - but I think we should remember it in this House. I conclude by saying that they are not extemporaneous proposals and they are certainly not dreams of a midsummer night. There is no violation of rights, because abroad (in Germany, France, the Anglo-Saxon countries, Spain) there are prescription regimes that go to that end. I remember that there are legislative proposals in this sense of the Democratic Party itself, since the time of the olive tree, and that a ministerial commission, which was chaired by Pisapia, had concluded in the same way. I'll stop at this point. I do not know whether the amendments will be dealt with in practice, but I believe that there are many issues to be dealt with, and Mr Cucca will certainly have more to point out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u53	As a number of Members have expressed their intention to speak at the end of the sitting and have to finish our work by 6.30 p.m., I shall refer the further discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u56	PADUA (PD). Mr President, many times in this House I have had the honour to represent some very serious problems in my territory, which is that of the Province of Ragusa. Once again, this evening, I am going to talk about a problem that is very close to my heart, but it is also very close to my community, which concerns judicial geography, which - as we certainly remember in this House - has chosen to do a work of spending review and has closed several courts, especially one that concerns my Province and the city of Modica. Well, the court I am referring to, which was recently built with an important economic commitment, is located in an area of very high seismic risk and has been closed for about two years. The judicial activity has been transferred to Ragusa and is carried out in buildings that have been declared structurally insecure. What happened on August 24, 2016 - unfortunately we all have painfully in our eyes the tragedy of Lazio and Marche - has raised further concerns in my Region and Province. I refer, therefore, to the House the question 3-03146 that I have tabled, in which the seismic risk in our Region is particularly serious, the second Region in Italy at very high seismic risk, with 4.7 million people distributed out of 356 municipalities and with a very high number of buildings built before the entry into force of the national anti-seismic legislation, in 1974. And, also with regard to the public sector, the Sicilian situation is absolutely critical, so much so that the number of buildings exposed to seismic risk, as reported also by the press, is the highest in Italy: we are talking about 4.894 schools and 398 hospitals. Still, EUR 18 million has been allocated by the Regional Civil Protection, but one has not yet been spent on red tape. I take advantage of the presence of the Undersecretary for Justice to point out that in this context of extreme criticality, in which, to the urgency of numerous anti-seismic interventions, the difficulty of finding adequate economic resources that can adequately cope with it is added, one cannot understand the reason for the failure to use the offices of the Palace of Justice of Modica in place of the judicial offices of Ragusani, from the moment in which we are located within an area, that of the Iblei mountains, counted as a red zone. In this context, it seems absolutely unreasonable to me, and it is absurd to think that we are using plexuses that are not normal - there are written and delivered notes - and that they present serious structural difficulties. The offices that currently host the activity of the Court of Ragusa, despite the maintenance, carried out over time, do not ensure minimum and acceptable levels of safety for those who work there and for users. This, therefore, is the main concern that follows, in the territory of Ragusa, the amalgamation carried out with the law of reform of judicial geography. I therefore note, in addition to the mere economic side - certainly not indifferent, having tried to fix unusable buildings - the most serious thing, namely that we put at risk the health, the lives of citizens and operators. At a time when the Government courageously puts in place Casa Italia to secure what is not safe, to regulate what is not good, we have a court according to norm, anti-seismic, adequate, closed for two years, and a court that works in Ragusa, that uses premises not according to anti-seismic norm, where we pay the rent, where works have been done to make it as suitable as possible from a functional point of view, where there is a slowing down of the activity of justice, but, above all, where it puts itself at risk. It is known, in fact, that my Province is at high seismic risk and, just look at the map, where it is marked with a purple color. I would ask Mrs Undersecretary for justice at this time in this House to accept my pressing invitation, because the laws are right, we must do them, but we must also monitor them and, if there are difficulties, we can also review them. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u59	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a comment on the report, which Mr Galletti presented today in 13a. Commission, on waste management in certain Italian regions. And I want to do it here because I missed the opportunity to reply to the conclusion of the Minister's report. The Minister has obviously shocked a number of indisputable numbers of the tragic situation of waste management in our unfortunate regions, especially the southern ones, which we all know is due to corruption, which is unpunished - we have spoken about it elsewhere - also because of the prescription, as well as a substantial lack and structural inadequacy of men and means of control structures. Yet the Minister - I regret to say this in his absence, but I hope that my message will come to him - has not failed to make yet another anachronistic hymn to liberal political propaganda which - as is now known to all - has failed. Everyone knows, in fact, that the multi-utilities that sell water, gas and collect waste are full of debts. The Minister, on the other hand, had the opportunity to say that in the North, where we have large companies - and he has appointed them: Hera, Iren, A2A - things work. I therefore believe that this must be clarified: things do not work. Iren has a debt of about 3 billion euros, if all those that are considered to be inexpensive credits are also calculated. Hera has gone from a debt of EUR 2 billion to EUR 3 billion. AGCOM has assessed in a negative way the catchment area of Hera, which has in its belly about 3 million users, while it has been estimated that a user that works is around 200,000-300,000 people. We must realize that in recent decades the defeat of the liberal ideology is clear to all, and we cannot continue to repeat as a mantra how privatisations will be our future and our salvation. This government seems to us rather that it behaves like the conductor of the Titanic. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u62	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I would like to talk about something that I read about the Republic of 23 September. On September 2, Rome's appeal court imposed to return to a patient suffering from hepatitis C the generic medicine against hepatitis, prescribed by an Italian doctor, purchased online in India and kidnapped at the border, applying the Italian law that protects against the import of medicines from abroad of which it is not possible to trace its origin. In this case we are talking about Harvoni, the generic product from Gilead, which is sold in India and Bangladesh and which contains Sofosbuvir and Ledipasvir. The patient in question, with hepatitis C, is not part of the group of patients who are receiving treatment from the National Health Service, because of the preventive selection made on the patients themselves, considering the high cost - as we all know - of the drug imposed by Gilead (patent holder) on AIFA, decided to buy the drug using the DIY method. A sentence has proved the patient right, as the disease, the presence of a prescription and a limited amount of medicine purchased online have been established. All this proves that the subject did not want to do illicit trade, but personal use in order to defeat his own disease. This is what we in Italy foretold in motion 1-00603, presented in the Senate on June 29, 2016. Those who are excluded from treatment with Sofosbuvir, which is given only to the most serious cases of hepatitis C (those with cirrhosis), would have tried to obtain the medicine through alternative channels at a much lower cost, but with many more risks. The intention of the motion was and is to allow Italy to do a legal trial and managed by the National Health Service, through the direct purchase of generic from India and Bangladesh at a much lower cost than the brand produced by Gilead (Sovaldi). The advantages are, firstly, to prevent parallel trade without valid controls on the drug; secondly, to insert a very large number of patients into the experimental protocol; thirdly, to have as a reference the Reminder study carried out in Australia on the generic medicine purchased through the same channels and which had a response on patients perfectly comparable to the Gilead drug. We will simply have to experiment if what is valid for Australian patients is also valid for Italian patients, using a much larger cohort than Italian patients. The hepatologists contacted are available; the Higher Institute of Health should simply evaluate the goodness of the generic; the AIFA should give marketing authorisation. And they all agree, apparently. There is only a lack of political will to pursue this solution. Today - and I thank you for that, Mr President - I have heard that this motion is one of those that will be discussed at the sittings of the next few weeks. I am therefore very pleased with your choice and hope to arrive at a solution in a short time. [[Applause from the Mixed Idv and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u65	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, I rise on a matter that has been decided in recent days, namely the referendum that the Canton of Ticino has held on the possibility of our cross-border workers to continue to operate in Switzerland. They are 62,000 Italians involved in the referendum and its economic effects. Most of the players involved are small and very small artisan enterprises, especially in the provinces of Varese and Como, but also Sondrio, Milan and the hinterland of Lombardy, which are now faced with 58 percent of the citizens of the Canton of Ticino who actually claimed: First we and then the others. This is a phrase that unfortunately we have heard many times also in our country, referring to many other subjects who move around the world, as well as in our country. [[Comments of the Senator Council]] Yet the Lega del Ticino, which is called a bit like our North League, and other parties in that area have supported discrimination against the Italians of Lombardy who go to work in Ticino, the small Lombard enterprises, artisans, plumbers, electricians, masons and small construction companies, supporting a position identical to that of those who would like to build walls around the courtyard of their own home. From wall to wall, however, you end up petrified in your own graveyard spaces. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Senator Council's comments.]] That is what I would like to bring to Parliament's attention. In a free country like Switzerland, in the Canton of Ticino, 58 percent of voters said with their vote that the Italians who go to those territories are too many and they want more space for the Swiss. 18.26 (Follow Sangalli) But be careful: there is always a North that is farther north than the others and we are all south of some North. If we reason in this way, we oppose not only economic exchanges - in these days, rightly, the problem is being posed - but also the intelligence of humanity, which should spread, exchanging its economies and cultures, more frequently than is being done. Let us remember this lesson. It's the first lesson we get, and we'll get more if we keep building walls around the courtyards. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bencini and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u68	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would like to point out that at the celebration of the hundred and ten years of the Salini Impregilo Group, the President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, has relaunched the project to link Sicily to Calabria with the bridge, an idea that is not new and which, moreover, has changed its mind. There is in fact a video from 2010 - and those who have seen it know that it is funny - in which he said that, rather than the bridge, we should talk about computer highways and broadband. Among other things, I want to anticipate the submission of a question, because Dr Renzi has presented a figure: the new bridge would create about 100.00 jobs. From what I understand, the bridge would certainly take 100,000 tons of cement to be poured on the Calabrian-Messian coast. Perhaps Renzi confused the 100,000 tons of cement with the 100,000 jobs. I would like to know, and that is why I intend to present the question, where it came from. Now, knowing that, when our President-in-Office makes such statements, they are absolutely supported by studies, and that he does not allow himself to go to purely propagandistic statements, I expect to have the data so that I can present them to the Messinians and the kingdoms, who, when they hear of a bridge, do not know whether to laugh or cry, considering that the road system in those areas is in bad conditions. In addition, Messina has pointed out several times that with three million euros it would be able to fix the water supply system, which still presents problems because of the landslides that involve the pipelines that take water from the sources and bring it to Messina. That's a landslide, as we all know. It is now raining and, therefore, these problems reappear. Frankly, going to talk about these expenses at Impregilo is like talking about blood at the vampire's house. It was a way to celebrate them, and I understand that, but maybe it wasn't appropriate. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u71	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask the answer to Question No 4-06166, tabled on 21 July this year, which refers to the Esther Centre, an association established in the Barra district in Naples in 1979, which carries out various educational, health, social and cultural activities. At present there are 90 employees, in addition to consulting professionals, and approximately 300 day-to-day, outpatient and home benefits are calculated, and more than 50 semi-residence benefits. Madam President, just to get this right, Barra is a very difficult neighbourhood in Naples and the centre in question, which carries out - I repeat - various activities, not only health, but also cultural and social, is a breath of oxygen for everyone. People who are greeted with the semi-residential formula are coming from the neighborhood, with serious problems for their children. The center, then carries out a social shock absorber activity - let me pass the term - and really benefits the neighborhood. Unfortunately, I must remind you that, since December 2014, the staff of the Esther Centre has signed an agreement with the territorial management of the work, in which the company undertook to heal the payment of salaries to employees. We are not talking about one, two or three months, but about about 20 months. And these people responsibly - several of them are also from the neighborhood and know very well the difficulties - continue to work. Madam President, I would like the Government to intervene substantially and to welcome the parliamentary question. I know that an initial investigation has already begun, but it must move forward and speed up. It is not possible for people to work and not get paid, because this creates problems in a difficult neighborhood in Naples. [[Applause from Senator Scibona.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u74	MATTESINI (PD). Madam President, I rise to ask for the second time for the answer to Question 4-04004, which I submitted on 20 May 2015, to the Ministry of Economic Development and which, among other things, I had already tabled in the last parliamentary term with reference to the same subject and to which I had not received an answer. A group of citizens and home-buying members have lived and live a story that I would call ugly and strange. It is a story that dates back to 2009 when, following the complaints of some of those citizens, the Finance Guard started a tax investigation against the cooperative. The investigation then turned into a judicial police investigation, since some members had denounced the directors of the cooperative for attempted extortion, having conditioned the allocation of the house to the payment of an additional sum of 35,000 euros. The court of Arezzo, on December 20, 2013, sentenced the president of the cooperative for attempted extortion for having told some members the payment. Subsequently, the Ministry of Economic Development, urged to put the company into liquidation, undermined two inspectors of the Ministry, who had to examine the documents to assess the measure to be taken, given the sensitivity of the situation and the need to protect the members priority. Before the deadline for the submission of their report expired, the ministerial inspectors ordered the compulsory administrative winding-up of the cooperative with the simultaneous appointment of three founders. According to reports from the members, some of them obtained ownership of the accommodation in relation to others through an individual negotiation with the liquidators paying an inclusive sum of the debt to be extinguished and entered on the balance sheet by the member for the accommodation cost, as well as the sum of 35,000 euros. It appears, therefore, a further private negotiation with the members who have entered into possession of the house after purchase. With the question I asked whether the information referred to corresponds to the truth, with specific reference to the existence of the abovementioned transaction, and whether the Ministry is aware of the reason why the liquidators accepted the transaction agreement. In addition, I would like to stress that, to date, the situation is particularly delicate because transactive agreements are concluded while judicial proceedings are in place and there are people who, even though they have paid completely for the accommodation (about 350,000 euros are mentioned), have remained out of the transactive acts, although they have asked for it. They are now being proposed a further transactive act - as they say - which provides for the disbursement of another EUR 150,000. In order to give full clarity to an issue that presents profiles of opacity, I would like to ask the answer to the question because it seems to me a very sensitive issue that concerns too many cooperatives in our Italian territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u75	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-686.ana.u76	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.37.
