ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 29 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, at the request of the Liberal Popular Alliance-Autonomous Parliamentary Group, today's sitting will end at 6.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u5	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. 2521 and 2522. The rapporteurs, Senators Santini and Fravezzi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur on draft law No 2521, Senator Santini.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, Article 36 of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance entrusts the General Account of the State with the task of reporting to Parliament, in the form of the Law, compliance with what is authorised by the Budget Law. The approval of the General Report of the State represents, therefore, the final act of the budgetary process, through which the Chambers take note of the accounting findings arising from the management carried out in the previous year. From the procedural and technical accounting point of view, the same proposal for a financial statement to current legislation for the financial year 2017, the examination of which will be initiated in the next few days at first reading in the Chamber, will take as a basis the final findings contained in the Statement, which have also been highlighted in the bill of settlement for 2016, for the purpose of determining any adjustments to the payment authorisations. The statement of revenue, in the same way as the balance sheet, is divided into missions and programmes and is made up of the balance sheet account, which shows the actual amount of revenue and expenditure provided for in the balance sheet of the previous year's State, and the balance sheet, which shows the changes in the assets and liabilities constituting the assets of the State, as well as the final accounts annexed to certain government administrations with autonomy. A supplementary note for missions and programmes shall be attached to the statement of accounts for each administration, describing the results achieved with regard to the objectives set. The same statement is, finally, accompanied by the Economic Statement, in order to integrate the reading of the financial data with the economic information provided by the referents of the centers of cost of the central administrations of the State. Pursuant to Article 36, paragraph 6, of Law No 196 of 2009, an illustrative report of the resources used for the protection of the environment and the use and management of natural resources by the central government of the State is also attached to the Report. In relation to the content of the measure, it is noted that Articles 1, 2 and 3 show the overall results of the State administrations for the financial year 2015 and refer respectively to revenue, which you will find in detail in the report. Article 4 sets out the financial situation of the Treasury account, which shows a deficit of EUR 245,428.1 million at 31 December 2015. Article 5 provides for the approval of Annex No 1 containing the list of decrees by which withdrawals were made from the reserve fund for unforeseen expenditure and the approval of Annex No 2 on the surplus of commitments and payments resulting from the balance sheet, respectively on the account of jurisdiction, on the account of residues and on the account of the cash. Article 6 sets out the state's balance sheet position as at 31 December 2015, from which there are assets for a total of 962.6 billion euros and liabilities for a total of 2.721 billion euros. Articles 7 to 9 set out data on the accounts of companies and autonomous administrations. Finally, Article 10 provides for the approval of the General Report of the State Administrations and the Reports of Administrations and Autonomous Enterprises, according to the findings indicated in the previous articles. On the merits, moving to the overall data of the state budget, the management of competence achieved in 2015 an improvement of the balances compared to the final forecasts. In particular, the net balance to be financed shows in 2015 a value of less 41,545 million euros, with an improvement of 11.294 million euros compared to the balance recorded in 2014, due to the good performance of the final revenues. Analyzing the trend of revenue and current expenditure, instead, shows the further sharp decline recorded by public savings (balance of current transactions) that, after falling in 2014 to 18.4 billion euros compared to 39.7 billion in 2013, is attested in 2015 to a negative value of 9 billion euros, due to a strong increase in current expenditure compared to 2014 (by more than 43 billion), attributable to a less rigid approach of fiscal policy in 2015, only partially offset by the increase in current revenues (+16.1 billion). Even in this case the result is better than the corresponding final forecasts, according to which the public savings should have been decidedly more negative (over 33 billion euros). Finally, the figure of the use of the financial market (i.e. the difference between the final revenue and the total expenditure, including those relating to the repayment of loans) stood in 2015 at 257.1 billion, showing a substantial stability compared to 2014 (in which it was 260.4 billion euros), thus maintaining itself on values decidedly higher than both 2013 (€199 billion) and 2012 (€203 billion). For this reason, too, the significant improvement compared to the final forecast, which was €298.6 billion, is confirmed. In any case, both the net balance to be financed and the market use recorded in 2015 remained well below the ceiling established by the Stability Act for 2015, which was set at less than EUR 70,884 million for the net balance to be financed and at less than EUR 323,000 million for the use of the market, before previous accounting regulations and debtors. The improvement of the net balance to be financed above derives from a management of competence that shows a positive evolution of the development of the final revenue surveys compared to 2014, mostly attributable to the increased tax revenue established, the positive effects of which are partly offset by a moderate increase in the expenditure commitments. The increasing trend of the final income established would be attributable, in addition to the improvement of the cycle, to the application of Legislative Decree No. 175 of 21 November 2014 - concerning the tax simplification and the introduction of the tax return precompiled - that has modified the mechanisms of compensation and refund of tax. On the expenditure side, a less restrictive stance of budgetary policy has led to an overall increase in final commitments, in particular current expenditure (plus 43 billion euros compared to 2014), which was reflected in the reduction in capital expenditure (less 35 billion euros). In 2015, the total amount of revenue, including revenue from borrowing, was 829.108 million euro, with a negative trend compared to 2014 (less than 1.3 percent). This trend against the 2014 financial year stems from the dynamics of the start-up of loans, which contracted by more than 30 billion euros (less 10.4 percent). In 2015, total expenditure commitments amounted to EUR 826,631 million. Compared to the previous year's results, management has an overall increase in spending commitments of EUR 16 billion (plus 2%). Overall, the weight of total expenditure in relation to GDP increased from 50.2% in 2014 to 50.5% of GDP in 2015. On the basis of a summary analysis of the comparison between 2014 and 2015 on the performance of the final income established (which, as mentioned above, reached a value of 569.566 million euro), I first note their increase for about 19.4 billion. The increase in final revenue is justified by the growth in GDP which has mainly led to an increase in the first title of revenue. Compared to 2014, there was an increase in tax revenues (around 477,2 billion euros) and a decrease in extra-tributary revenues, reaching a level of 83,6 billion euros. Revenue relating to Title III - Aiding and amortization of assets and collection of loans increased by EUR 3.2 billion compared to 2014. The detailed analysis of the individual management components that have contributed to the dynamics of competence shows, on the revenue side, that the tax revenues are attested to the figure of 477.178 million euros (in improvement in 2014 compared to 2013), while those extratributaries reach the level of 83,602 million euros (i.e. decreasing compared to 2013 and 2014). As regards, in particular, the development of tax revenues, in 2015 there is an increase in both capital and income taxes of 14.6 billion euros (plus 6 percent), and business taxes and taxes of 3.8 billion euros (plus 2.4 percent). On the other hand, taxes on production, consumption and customs are decreasing by some 2 billion (-5.8%). In the case of extra-tributary revenue, the deterioration mainly relates to recovery, reimbursements and contributions (-1.2 billion compared to 2014, equal to -2.6 percent) and interest on various Treasury advances and loans (2.6 million compared to 2013, equal to -11 percent). On the other hand, revenues from smaller public services (+5.6%) are improving for around €1.4 billion. Finally, noteworthy is the increase in revenues recorded in relation to the sale and depreciation of assets and debt collection, which went from 5.5 billion euros in 2014 to 8.7 billion in 2015, exceeding the level of 7.9 billion recorded in 2012. This increase is almost entirely attributable to the sale of goods and the freeing of canons, which have more than doubled the revenue. Coming then to the final expenses, the management of competence 2015 has resulted - as said - in spending commitments for a total of 611.111 million euros, an increase of 8.086 million compared to the previous year. In this regard, it is noted that current-party expenditure generated commitments of EUR 569,801 million (up 8.3% compared to 2014), while capital expenditure fell to EUR 41,310 million (down 46.2% compared to 2014). With reference to current expenditure dynamics, overall increased by 8.3 per cent, comparing data with those for the 2014 financial year, the category with the highest increases is the category with regard to corrective and compensatory post (+43.2 per cent), followed by current transfers to private households and social institutions (+33.6 per cent) and businesses (+33.9 per cent). Employee income commitments, representing 15.3% of commitments, amount to €86.966 million, substantially stable compared to 2014. The current expenditure of 2015 is characterized by a substantial stability in intermediate consumption, ranging from 12,3 billion in 2014 to 12,9 billion in 2015 and for a decrease of the liabilities charges, equal to 74,5 billion euros (compared to 81,1 billion in 2014 and still higher in the previous years). The other voices are basically stable. As far as capital expenditure is concerned, the figures show a sharp decrease, from 76,830 million in 2014 to 41,310 million in 2015 (about 35 billion less). The contraction of capital expenditure compared to 2014 is to be put in relation to the fact that this title of expenditure had recorded a significant increase in 2013-2014, for the strong release of liquidity in the economic system determined by Decree-Laws no. 35 and 102 of 2013, with which a substantial measure of support to the economy and domestic demand has been carried out, aimed at facilitating the release of payments of public debt to its suppliers. Turning then to the management of the residues, on the basis of the data provided in the report to the Rendiconto, on 1 January 2015 the account of the residues indicated initial active residues, coming from the years 2014 and earlier, for a total value of 209,126 million euros and liabilities of the total expenses of 113,254 million euros, before the residues relative to the repayment of loans, with an active surplus of 95,872 million euros (in 2014 the surplus active was 176,907 million euros). During the financial year 2015, the amount of residues was modified as a result of the activity of verification and management in residual accounts; moreover, the management of competence for the financial year 2015 resulted in the formation of new residues. Indeed, compared with the stock of 209,126 million active residues from previous years, 150,680 million were established at 31 December 2015, of which only 37,773 million were collected and 112,907 million still to be paid or collected. 95,352 million newly formed residues were added to this previous amount, representing a total of active residues at 31 December 2015, amounting to 208,260 million. Similarly, with regard to the residual liabilities of the total expenditure, of the 113,254 million residues indicated on 1 January 2015, from previous years, 99,304 million were established, 52,523 of which were paid and 46,781 million still to be paid, which together with the newly formed residues, amounting to 66.250 million, resulted in total residual liabilities at 31 December 2015, amounting to 113,031 million. Not taking into account the residuals relating to Title III, the reimbursement of financial liabilities of EUR 3,340 million, the residual liabilities of final expenditure thus amounted to EUR 109,691 million. In summary, the remaining accounts at 31 December 2015 show assets of EUR 208,260 million and liabilities of EUR 113,031 million, of which EUR 3,340 million related to Title III, and the reimbursement of financial liabilities of EUR 95,229 million, with an active surplus of EUR 95,229 million. The Report then sets out and sets out the findings regarding cash management. In this connection, it should be recalled that the management of competence and the management of waste contribute to determining the results of cash management, which is represented, for the part of revenue, by receipts and, for the part of expenditure, by payments. In general terms, cash management has a similar trend to that of competence, with findings that, while showing an improvement over the final forecasts, show a worsening of the balances compared to the results achieved in 2014. Finally, the bill of account sets out the general account of the assets which - it is recalled - constitutes the accounting document which annually provides the balance sheet of the State, as it appears at the end of the financial year. It includes financial and capital assets and liabilities, with their changes during the reference year, as well as the demonstration of the various points of correlation between the balance sheet and the balance sheet. From the general results of the financial management 2015 emerges a passive surplus of 1,758,4 billion euros, with a worsening of 66,8 billion euros regarding the balance sheet at the end 2013, determined by a reduction of the assets, for a value of approximately 6 billion euros, and an increase of the liabilities, for a value of 60,9 billion euros. Overall, the results of the Report show the results of the multi-annual economic planning strategy that the Government gave itself at the same time as its establishment in 2014. The main objectives of this strategy are to relaunch growth and employment, through structural reform and to stimulate investment, both public and private, a fiscal policy approach conducive to growth, within a framework of consolidation of public finances, in order to reduce the ratio of debt to gross domestic product, the reduction of the tax burden and the greater efficiency of the expenditure and the action of the public administrations, as is the objective of the Government the improvement of the competitiveness of our country. I skip a few details and start to finish. It is precisely on these aspects that the Italian Government has for some time started a continuous, close and constructive confrontation with the European Commission, aimed at consolidating at European level the action to support job creation through an incentive to investment policies and reforms that change in a structural way the potential of our country and a responsible management of public finances. These are points we have never given up, with the aim precisely to make the economy grow again at a more rapid pace and at the same time to respect the path of reduction of the Italian public debt. More generally, however, the government's control of public finances and the objective seriousness recognised with respect to the reform process will allow us to include in the next budget law certain measures in favour of growth and further interventions to protect the categories most affected by the crisis, such as the unblocking of contracts, the cuts in contributions for VAT consignments not registered on orders, the bonus for teacher training, contributions to minimum pensions, flexibility, the increase in resources for combating poverty. It goes on naturally and consistently with the action of the Government with respect to the assumption that this country needs growth and investment and I believe that this will be the debate that will characterize the next budgetary maneuver. In conclusion, given the importance of the General Report of the State Administration for the financial year 2015, also in relation to the next budgetary session, it is hoped that the measure will be approved for our examination. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fravezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u7	We greet the teachers and students of the Istituto tecnico commerciale (Commercial Technical Institute) (Giuseppe Celli) in Cagli, in the province of Pesaro and Urbino, and of the Istituto complesso statale (Goffredo Parise) in Arzignano, in the province of Vicenza, and thank them for the attention paid to our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u8	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 2522, Senator Fravezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget settlement bill for the financial year 2016 consists of four articles and is accompanied by tables and annexes with reference to the estimates of revenue and expenditure. With regard to the forecasts settled in terms of competence for 2016, net of accounting and debit adjustments and VAT refunds, compared to the initial forecasts of the Budget Act for 2016, the Settlement Bill shows an improvement of the market use and a worsening of the net balance to be financed, of the public savings and of the primary surplus. The net balance to be financed shows a negative change of almost 1.1 billion on the whole, resulting from a deterioration of one billion and 337 million for administrative acts and an improvement of 243 million associated with the proposals of the adjustment itself and attributable to an important reduction in interest expenditure offset by a reduction in final revenue (in particular tax) and an increase in primary expenditure. As a result, this balance, in the forecast, stands at -35 billion and 355 million and, therefore, slightly below the maximum limit established by the Stability Act for 2016, set at -35 billion and 400 million euro. The worsening of the net balance to be financed that is determined in the forecast, net of the debit and accounting regulations, is due to an increase of the final expenses for total 380 million euros and a reduction of the final revenues of approximately 715 million. More specifically, with reference to the net balance to be financed which is determined in the forecast, it is noted that the increase in final expenditure compared to the budget forecasts is due to positive changes by administrative act, which can be attributed both to primary expenditure and capital expenditure. On the other hand, the adjustment proposal provides for a reduction in final expenditure (almost -2.1 billion), which affects the reduction of interest expenditure (a little less than -4.7 billion), which is offset by the updating of the profile of interest rates on public bonds and the reduction of interest payments on the Treasury's current accounts (per 1 billion). The reduction in revenue is due to the changes proposed by the bill of settlement (a little more than -1.8 billion) and concerns exclusively tax revenues (approximately 3.5 billion), due to the adjustment to the macroeconomic framework for the current year, taken as a basis for the preparation of the 2016 estimates contained in the DEF last April, as well as the performance of the revenues recorded in the first months of this year. With regard to final revenues, the measure before our examination proposes a reduction of 1 billion and 838 million as a result of a reduction in tax revenues of 3 billion and 510 million, of which 2 billion and 129 million relate to direct taxes and 1 billion and 381 million for indirect taxes and an increase in extra-tributary revenues of 1 billion and 670 million, which comes mainly from the participation in the operating profits of the Bank of Italy, dividends due from the companies involved, as well as proceeds from the rights of use of radio frequencies, following the allocation contest established by the Law of Stability for 2015. It should be noted that the projected revenue developments take into account the data from the self-liquidation of taxes in the current year. With reference, however, to the public savings, the forecasts are worsening, compared to the initial ones, for a value of 173 million. On the whole, market-use data show a positive impact on the balance of around €1 billion and €619 million, from around €256,9 billion to around €255,3 billion. With regard to final expenditure, the proposed changes lead to a reduction of 2 billion and 81 million which mainly concern - as mentioned - interest. With reference instead to the forecasts settled in cash terms for 2016, net of the accounting regulations and debtors and VAT refunds, we observe, compared to the initial forecasts, a worsening of all the balances. The magnitude of the worsening of the net balance to be financed is about 8.9 billion, that of the public saving of little more than 2 billion, while the necessity to resort to the market records an increase of 9,3 billion, reaching the amount of beyond 330 billion; the primary surplus, finally, starting from the negative value of almost 14 billion, reaches an equally negative amount of little less than 27,4 billion, with a worsening percentage greater than 96 percent. The divergent trend of cash balances of current part compared to those of competence is attributed to a plurality of factors. In particular, with reference to current expenses, to the additional resources to be allocated to the Regions for the payment of passive residues relative to the VAT sharing, to the greater endowments on the chapters of transfers to the enterprises for the harbour workers and the Railways of the State, to the greater transfers to the INPS for 774 million. In relation to capital expenditure, on the other hand, it is associated with investment grants to municipalities of one billion and 324 million, of which 737 million for the Eagle and the Crater Municipalities damaged by the earthquake, 560 million in favor of the Municipality of Rome and also the major investment grants to enterprises of 1 billion and 183 million, of which 1,000 million for the State Railways. Finally, they see acquisitions of financial assets of 759 million. Turning to passive residues, at 31 December 2015, they amount to 109.7 billion of which 63 of new training, i.e. deriving from the management of competence of the financial year 2015, while 46.7 billion come from previous years. The reduction of about 3 billion of final liabilities compared to the previous year is only attributable to the significant contraction of the residual capital account (-10.2 billion), partially offset by the increase of those of the current part (7.1 billion). The residuals of new formation represent approximately 57 percent of the total, they are at little more than 63 billion euros and they record a reduction regarding the year precedence with reference to both the current part and the capital account (to measure, respective, almost 1,2 billion and beyond 12 billion regarding the data of 2014). The most relevant items in the formation of current part residues refer to transfers to public administrations, corrective and compensatory posts for revenue, intermediate consumption and current transfers to enterprises. Contributions to investment in general government, investment in enterprises, gross fixed capital formation, other capital transfers and acquisitions of financial assets contribute to the determination of capital surpluses. Finally, taking into account the individual provisions of the settlement bill, they intervene on certain provisions of the budget law for the financial year 2016. In particular, Article 2 amends the budget law by providing that, in paragraph 3 of Article 2, the quantification of the maximum amount of issue of public bonds is increased to 64 billion euros compared to 53.4 billion initially foreseen. Article 3 amends paragraphs 2 to 5 of Article 11 of the Budget Act for 2016, relating to the estimates of the Ministry of Defence, in order to modify the maximum number of auxiliary officers to be kept in service as an average force in 2016; the organic consistency of the official students of the academies of the Armed Forces, including the Armed Forces; the organic consistency of the pupils of the sub-official schools of the Armed Forces, excluding the Armed Carabinieri and the organic consistency of the students of the military schools. Paragraph 1 of Article 4 introduces paragraph 35-a to Article 17 of the Budget Law for 2016, providing that the Minister of Economy and Finance is authorised to allocate, among the estimates of the Ministries concerned, the resources of the chapter "Fund to be allocated for the accounting arrangements of the consignments entered in the suspended account" entered in the estimates of the Ministry of Economy and Finance for 2016. This fund is provided with EUR 1 billion; resources not used in 2016 may be used, in residual accounts, in the following year. Paragraph 2 increases the budget of the fund to meet the indispensable needs that should be manifested in the course of the management, from 25 million euros to 955,069,060 euros for the year 2016. The increase is justified in view of the fact that the financial year still presents some crucial months before its conclusion, and therefore the Government has chosen to adopt a line of extreme prudence, also in view of the serious emergencies that have hit the country during the summer and the urgent and unexpected expenses arising in previous years before the end of the year. This is the technical analysis of the contents of the settlement bill, which shows that growth is still slow, weak, compared to expectations. A recipe that can reverse the development of these data has been and is the subject of wide-ranging debate, and we have also discussed it in the Commission. It is true that the international economy has a negative impact on the national economy, but it is also true that our country has the responsibility not to have grasped in the past favorable moments to start a process of growth and that only in recent years has it been tried to identify a coherent path between interventions on the economy, on the social, on the job also through structural reforms that can contribute to this plan of growth. However - as has been observed several times - the fruits and benefits of these policies will be reaped over time and our country needs a fiscal policy that can anticipate the effects through more targeted incentives for growth and job creation. These policies must necessarily be coordinated with the structural reforms undertaken. Therefore, the reflection to which we are all invited goes in the direction of how today, in the context of the policies already begun in the long term, we can imagine these interventions to give a more immediate positive response. It is at the door the presentation of the new maneuver that - as reported by Deputy Minister Morando - will be in line with the guiding criterion of the Government, namely to give rise to a more expansive maneuver possible, strictly respecting the European rules and treaties. The economic and fiscal policy strategy outlined by the Government in the Update Note to the DEF will be decisive in this regard. If we want to read with clarity the words "economic growth" and "reduction of public debt" in the next economic documents, we must necessarily provide for measures that favour the growth of nominal wealth, which is the real node. These measures have been identified and relate, in particular, to the support of public investment (possibly private investment) and consumption. We must now, as far as possible - in my opinion - implement them. With this wish, I call on the House to vote in favour of this settlement. [[Applause from Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u10	I declare the joint general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, the data presented by the 2016 Budget Asset and the 2015 Budget Statement are not positive and we are very concerned because we are in the presence of a worsening public finance framework. The 2017 forecasts just set out in the Update Note to the DEF 2016, only confirm public accounts worse than those forecasted; forecasts which, in turn, inter alia, during the hearings in the Commission, Banca Italia, Court of Auditors and Parliamentary Budget Office have defined optimistic, which is a euphemism not to say unrealistic and perhaps unrealizable. It seems, therefore, that the goal of growth that we all wanted to have also stranded, and this above all because of a expenditure that continues to grow, rather than decrease, and a spending review of which every trace has been lost. It is clear from the figures in the documents before us that it is difficult to finance investment and economic growth policies in the face of expenditure that has certainly not been contained. Yet, without investment there is no future. We must return to talking about growth in national policies and especially in European ones, which are still entrenched within an accounting and accounting vision, not economic and social. The lack of growth, moreover, generates an increase in public expenditure, especially of a social type, aimed at supporting the weakest groups, and this accelerates the public debt, which, instead of decreasing, is constantly increasing. Unfortunately, it is the classic case of the dog biting its tail. In my opinion, there are two driving sectors in our economy that deserve more attention and should be focused on. The first is agri-food, a sector that grows much more than national GDP, and the other sector is tourism that in Italy is still too linked to the summer season while it should be valued all year round. Another element that emerges from the documents before us is an economic policy that is made in deficit with significant values and from which it is difficult to come back. The total amount of debt has grown in an important way, touching new negative records, and it is useless for me to tell you that this represents a real mortgage on the new generations. This should advise the Government to avoid a new deficit maneuver. On the contrary, from the Update Note to the DEF, a maneuver with a still important deficit is announced, at 2.4 percent of GDP and therefore not far from that of 2016, which was 2.6 percent. But it turns out above all that the Government has completely missed the objectives of reducing expenditure that has grown in real terms both in the Statement and in the Assestamento. The consequence of these policies is that we are in the presence of a high need and a negative figure compared to public savings, confirming the growth, above all, of current expenditure. Above all, there has been a marked increase in expenditure on intermediate goods and consumption, i.e. expenditure whose opacity leaves room for policy mediation. In the presence of these data, which is sincerely difficult to judge as positive, but also in the presence of a safeguard clause on VAT for 15 billion euros in 2017 and anticipations on a loosening of the pension rules, there is a question: where will you go to take all this money? The Note is therefore, not surprisingly, still vague on the content of the budgetary maneuver for next year. The most obvious result is that there have been policies of rigour in public finances, which would, among other things, have raised the lower burden paid on public debt, due to expansionary monetary policies at European level. There is an increase in the use of the Fund for the indifferent needs, but it does not have a clear quantification of the different uses of the resources allocated to it. The lack of development policies is precisely the other obvious fact with which we have to deal. It seems to us, then, that all indicators are not favourable, they are at risk of jeopardising the long-term public finances, but also in the medium-term, if the still favourable international conditions change. Among other things, the indicators - as I said just now - relate to a GDP that is constantly being revised downwards, also according to the latest data for 2016. And in the face of this, to say the least, problematic picture, we cannot read the contours of the maneuver even in the Update Note to the DEF, which should, on the contrary, serve precisely to anticipate its contents; a maneuver that - according to what we are forewarned the indications of the two documents to our examination - can only continue with a new loosening of the policies aimed at improving public finances. We are not the only ones who fear an unholy scenario for the future of the country. Unfortunately, the statistical indicators, which measure the confidence of businesses and consumers, also confirm that the difficulties and the crisis are far from over. Yesterday, ISTAT's data on the increase in the propensity to save households that, despite having a higher income available due to the increase in purchasing power, prefer to set aside their money, rather than spend it on purchases or investments. This is the typical sign of fear and it is up to you, the government's lords, to restore confidence in families and businesses. And you can do that if you have to go to public administration, to the gigantic state car, the same attitude as the good family father and especially the diligent entrepreneur. Waste must be cut and the few resources available must be carefully spent to boost growth and employment. It is therefore appropriate to concentrate resources and direct them towards investment policies that are not only public spending measures, but also to stimulate growth, enabling honest and solid entrepreneurs to easily invest in their companies and make their businesses more competitive. We trust that in a few days, when we read the law of stability, we will find those measures that families and businesses expect, so that we can look with confidence to the future and to a longer time horizon. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measures we are examining, the statement of revenue and the state budget must be included in the multi-annual economic preparation strategy that the government has taken since its establishment. The main objectives of this strategy are the revival of growth, employment and public and private investment, which as a whole are giving the first clear results, as has also been pointed out in the DEF Update Note last April, the review of which has just been launched by the Budget Commission. At our examination we have two documents: a statement that objectively respects the forecasts and an Assembling that, instead, reduces the slowdown of the country's growth within a wider slowdown of European growth. Since 2014, after several years of shrinking growth, the Italian economy has returned to growth and, with it, employment has returned to growth. This path, however, has slowed down in the last quarter, on whose causes it must be opened a reflection that reasons on why the country grows less than in other European countries and on why Europe grows less than in other world economies. Certainly there are clear causes: there is a worsening of the international framework; the slowdown of emerging economies; a protracted weakness of the eurozone, which has also been attacked by the crisis linked to the choice of Britain; the increased volatility of international markets and, not least, all the serious geopolitical issues that are somehow affecting the whole of the Mediterranean area and reverberating Europe. But this is not enough to fully understand and reason on the estate of our country. Obviously the elements and effects of these evaluations are reflected on the data contained in the bill n. 2521 (General statement of the government administration for the financial year 2015), regarding which I think it is opportune - as I said in the premise - to emphasize the positive development of the management of competence, that has recorded, regarding the forecasts, an improvement of the balances, that is realized also regarding the results achieved in 2014. Thanks to the good performance of the final revenues, the net balance to be financed in 2015 shows an improvement of 11 billion compared to that of 2014 and also the value of the public savings shows a better performance than the forecasts, although of course negative (and it is right to emphasize it). It is clear that this trend is clearly due to a focus, an attempt and a fiscal policy approach which in recent years has had an expansive character. Both the net balance to be financed and the use of the market that we recorded in 2015 have remained well below the limit that Parliament has established with the law of stability 2015, also because the final revenues have been positive compared to 2014 (especially those tax); trend also attributable to the interventions that have been made by Parliament in the matter of fiscal simplification, starting from the choices relative to the management of the tax return precompiled (just to give an example). As far as expenditure is concerned, there has been an increase in current expenditure, as has also been pointed out. However, I would like to understand one thing: if we do not increase current expenditure on measures to support growth and the promotion of equity, what else must we do to support recovery? Now, with regard to expenditure, which - as I said - has increased, the seemingly negative figure of reduction in capital expenditure is certainly due to the success of the process of paying past debts of the public administration, which, since the beginning of this legislature, had been among the priorities of our work and of the majority of government. This is a clear choice that Parliament has made - and the Government has realized - that had determined in the two years before a liquidity injection in the economic system of the country absolutely extraordinary. On the whole, therefore, a note to be emphasized with respect to the data of the Rendiconto is certainly the fact that, in the construction of the accounting data and in the formulation of the forecasts by the Government, these have certainly shown themselves among the most correct regarding those formulated in the last years. For example, growth was expected to be between 0.7% and 0.9%, which was then confirmed at 0.8%, just as the deficit-to-GDP objective was guaranteed and fully centred, which is certainly not the most efficient at all, but is what had been predicted by 2.6%. Similarly, a stabilisation of the debt-to-GDP ratio was planned, which was confirmed on time. I would just like to make a few comments on the adoption of the budget because other Members will reason with it. I think that one fact should be stressed here: if some data are not exactly what was expected to be achieved, it is certainly not due to endogenous factors, but to factors which have developed this year and which have to do with the European and international context which clearly shows a global slowdown in the world economy, the effects of which, on an economy like ours which is more fragile than others in Europe, have already been evident. This is certainly where the reflection on what to do needs to be deepened. The threat of terrorism, the migration crisis and Brexit have had an influence on the recovery in Europe and have therefore also negatively affected growth in our country. These phenomena have an important impact and require a rethink of the future of the European Union, which must be re-launched in a different way than the road and the road direction that has been traveled so far, including in terms of supporting growth and employment. Too weak, too cautious and too fearful was the road Europe has taken so far. This is also demonstrated by the ineffectiveness and minimal scope of the Juncker Plan, although Italy is the second among the European countries that are trying to invest on this plan, with 13 projects approved and included so far. This shows that Europe is not doing enough to protect its own growth and growth of the most fragile countries within it. Similarly, little is being done by Europe to address in global and general terms the crises that are affecting the economic system. It is not trivial to say, if you look further in time, to the next twenty years, that the risk of the European economy becoming absolutely marginal compared to other emerging economies is a reality to which to look with grave concern and to which only one country, moreover fragile like ours, certainly cannot give the steering that would be necessary. On the other hand, the attempt by Parliament and the Government with the European Commission to consolidate at that level an action to support growth and employment by encouraging investment policies and reforms that change the potential and the work that Europe is doing in that direction can contribute to a direction. Is that enough? No, because Europe is not yet going in the direction it needs, but in any case that is the only direction in which Parliament and the Government, with the support of the whole Parliament as a whole, must proceed. Despite this still weak economy and economic framework, the country's debt has remained below the 3% limit and in structural terms we are now very close to balance. I do not want to mention now all the rest of the issues that specifically concern the Assetment. On the other hand, I am going to some conclusive and summary data which I think are important. I think it is important to point out that the slowdown in growth in 2016 and, as can already be seen from the DEF Update Note, in 2017 affects many of the European economies and calls for a reflection that we must certainly do in the discussion of the Stability Act and the next Budget Act, including growth-friendly measures aimed at overcoming inequalities that strike in a more obvious way and exposes to the crisis the weakest and those who have less material and intangible resources. But it is the country system as a whole that requires innovation and ability to invest more on itself and on its own resources. Much has been done in recent years in the direction of tax reductions in a widespread way, in order to increase the availability of resources for families and people, but we must ensure that this availability of resources is transformed, through an injection of confidence, into consumption and investment. I do not share some of the statements made by my colleagues earlier on the lack of strict public finances or the lack of reduction in expenditure. As I said in this contribution, the public accounts in 2015 proved to be fully confirmed in the forecasts approved by Parliament; if we are recording some deviations in 2016, these are definitely external factors. Just as there was a reduction in primary expenditure (we are at the level of structural budget balance), but you cannot have the drunken wife and the full barrel, claiming to have more investment and at the same time to invest less resources. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u14	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u15	Mr President, Mr Morando, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of the General Report of the State Administration for the financial year 2015 and of the Update Note to the DEF, which will be discussed next week, are important moments of reflection and evaluation on the work of three governments that have succeeded in the last five years at the head of the country: the Monti, Letta and Renzi Governments. Five years is equivalent to a full legislature and I believe that the results produced are in everyone's eyes and fail. The economic policies of these governments have led a large part of Italians to despair. The most significant economic parameters, those that can allow a timely evaluation of the government's action, are unfortunately tragic. The public debt, between November 2011 and July 2016, the date of the last certification of the Bank of Italy, has grown by 350 billion euros. In 2011 the debt was 1,905 billion euros and in July 2016 it was 2,252 billion and lacks in the calculation the accumulated debts from the public administration towards the companies: if the State had paid the companies for approximately 70 billion, the public debt would have emerged in an even more important way. GDP is below ten points compared to the pre-crisis peak; after years of negative sign, this year we will have a +0.7-0.8% - hopefully - but basically close companies, we have -25 billion industrial production and -30 billion gross fixed capital formation. These governments, which were supposed to put their accounts in order, are actually sweeping the country. The budget balance, which the Monti Government had set for 2013, has been postponed from year to year and now will have to be achieved in 2018, but in the Update Note the balance (- 0.2 percent) is expected for 2019. The debt-to-GDP ratio was 116.6 percent in 2011, today it is growing: it has reached 132.2 from the final and will reach 132.8 percent at the end of 2016. But don't worry: next year it will start to come down! As regards unemployment, in August the estimated number of employees increased slightly to +0.1 in July, with 13,000 more employed, after the fall in the previous month, by 0.3% with 40,000 fewer employed. The unemployment rate is 11.4%: I remember that in 2011 it was 9.6 percent. There has therefore been an increase in the unemployment rate by almost two points. In ten years Italian families living in absolute poverty almost doubled, from 819,000 in 2005 to 1.5 million in 2015. Individuals in serious difficulty have even increased by 140 percent, from 1.9 million to 4.6 million. As of December 31, 2015, the population with Italian citizenship fell by 179,000. The births were 488,000 and it is the minimum historical from the Unity of Italy to today: for the fifth consecutive year there is a reduction in fertility. One hundred thousand Italians have left our country this year and they are mostly graduates. We then adopt a measure to put companies in a position to hire young graduates, we completely cut the burdens reflected: it is an effort that the country must make, cannot let all the brains formed by Italian universities escape abroad! The government must absolutely restart growth, and growth does not start again with promises, proclamations, falsehoods and lies. We must put our companies in a position to operate, through a reduction in the bureaucracy that is necessary and facilitating access to credit, which is now completely closed because the banks are all in difficulty. We need to help companies that want to do research and innovation, developing and buying more modern equipment and those that - this is important - want to promote their products on international markets. But there is no trace of this in government politics. Faced with this tragic situation, keep teasing the Italians. This summary shows that your predictions are systematically, ten times out of ten, groundless. To the test of the facts they prove completely wrong: forecasts that are made to deceive, but, of illusion in illusion, the country plunges into the abyss, because continuing to make high forecasts we do nothing but increase the public debt, because the following year there is always a surplus of public debt. You have not even managed to exploit a favourable international situation, such as the cost of zero money, the cost of oil dropped to 40 dollars per barrel and the favourable euro-dollar exchange rate, which has favoured our exports. Unfortunately these conditions are changing, as Draghi said well, who warned that the reduction in the cost of money will not last forever; oil has already begun to rise and the oil price forecasts contained in the Update Note to the DEF are completely high, are already out of measure. International trade, which can support our economy, will have to cope with a crisis that is reducing it. As I conclude, Mr President, I would like to invite the Government to be a little more responsible and correct and to give adequate information, because we cannot yet operate in this way. A few days ago I read a news report, an agency launch according to which the President of the Council said: We have seen the latest data, GDP grows by a few billion compared to when we had imagined it. And when did he imagine? Who knows? If we look at the DEF, GDP grows less than expected in this document: Did Renzi imagine more? We are faced with a President-in-Office of the Council who says these things and also says that the debt falls by 0.5%. Have we seen that the pillar has increased by 350 billion euros, the debt is falling in relation to GDP? No, because this relationship grows. What language does the President-in-Office use? Perhaps he makes these statements because he does not understand the difference between debt and public deficit. I want to hope that the Report under consideration will end, after five years, a season of unfulfilled promises and fairy tales, because the country needs a government that clearly tells the Italians how things stand. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u16	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u17	Mr President, I was passionate about Mr Ceroni's speech, because he focused on today's debate. Reading a balance sheet is a bit of a waltz of numbers. The budget is the result of political choices, evaluations and forecasts, mostly; if you start with all false or wrong predictions, of course you will come to the conclusion that all numbers are objectively irrefutable. I remember what my old priest said. In my day the priests still wore the robe and he said that, if the first wrong button is buttoned in the morning, then, while buttoning others in the right way, it ends up all the buttons are wrong. Again, if you start with a wrong prediction, it follows that we will all have staggered numbers. Of optimistic forecasts from all the ministries - today we are talking about the Ministry of Economy and Finance - we have seen several of them. The problem is that, on the same day or the day following the publication of these forecasts, the delegated bodies intervene to certify the economic data (I think of the ISTAT, the Bank of Italy or the International Monetary Fund), which substantially alter the numbers and optimism of the Ministries. Let's take an example that perhaps has little relevance: the effect of the maneuver on the work of the Renzi Government. We are talking about jobs act : the year following its adoption, the government - Renzi, first of all - has had a hard time announcing the great effects of the measure, talking about an increase in employment units of 600,000. Too bad that the INPS, with other numbers, intervened after, which declared an increase of just over 300,000 units. The citizen can justify a change that is also sensitive, but the difference between 300,000 and 600,000 means that Government and INPS are completely different. Let's remember the data on post-reform exodus Fornero. Again, the INPS gave numbers and the government gave others. Too bad - alas - even this time the INPS was right, so much so that we had to make seven revisions and seven sanatories to heal blocks of people who were not understood (i.e. the famous exodates) in the previous measure. We all understand that, speaking of a forecast balance, there can also be adjustments to what it will be, in fact no one can predict seismic events such as those that occurred during the year or, for example, floods in recent years. Moreover, we must remember that all the regions of the North, Veneto in the first place, are still waiting for the aid for the damages suffered, as a result of the floods, by many companies and not a few people in those areas. We cannot play on economic developments. Someone should explain to me why the government should be believed when it says that we are recovering, that there is growth, if the figure of industrial production is stagnant. I don't know an entrepreneur who hires people if he doesn't have a job application. However, since people are hired, it is assumed that there is growth, that there is a departure from the economy. Then I come back to ask: why should an entrepreneur hire if he does not have a job, if there is no demand for production? The only reason is that there have been incentives, given by the sum of the measures of the jobs act and the laws of stability of the past years, so those who have assumed in 2015 enjoy tax reductions for more than 8,000 euros a year for thirty-six months, that is for three years, while those who have assumed in the course of 2016 will have little more than 3,000 euros annual year and only for twenty-four months. Prudently, I would therefore suggest to the Government to wait until the end of the tax reductions, in 2018, because at that moment we will see the real effects produced by the reform of the job; if we want to do it now, alas, we know that we only make easy and very easy propaganda. Work is important: there is no economy that can stand on anything but work. Domestic demand should therefore be supported. In this sense, the measures to support consumption adopted by this Government are not in themselves negative, the fact is that, as they have been conceived, they have more the taste of electoral workers than of actions able to solve the problem on a structural basis: let's think of the 80 euros given a few years ago before the elections, the 500 euros that will be given to the young people who become adult this year because they will vote for the first time when we go to vote, think of the tips to the professors and so on. We could consider them welfare and consumer support maneuvers, but in fact they are not: they have been structured thinking only of electoral moments and trying to win over the favor of a sector, of a competent social: once the young, once the workers, once the military, once the professors and so on. We repeat that the social shock absorbers, which are used to compensate for the consumption that could not be achieved if a person loses his job, because he undoubtedly loses the ability to be on the market, are very serious devices and, all in all, are not negative for the economy, because they put into circulation an expense that then has local repercussions. However, the North League has repeatedly urged attention, because on these issues you can play, there are those who do it and take advantage of it. This is how we come to the facts today: in recent days the Finance Guard has highlighted a huge amount of scams perpetrated by foreigners, who work a few months, return home and collect the benefits of the subsidy. But the subsidy was thought to be then spent in Italy and to set Italian consumption in motion, while these beneficiaries fly here. In addition to carrying out a scam and declaring the false, they receive a subsidy that in the country of belonging makes them live as nabbies. It is said that the League is bad, but the League does not want to punish anyone, it wants to avoid these scams, which today are certified, even, by the Finance Guard. If I have to give a subsidy to a person who lives in Italy and has lost his job, meanwhile I check that he is actually in Italy. What are the systems for doing so? I don't credit the bank subsidy, but I make sure you have to withdraw it every month. Or perhaps even better: because the person who loses his job stays at home and receives almost the amount of a person who works, and since the person who works at 8 a.m. must stamp the card, I wonder why those who do not work but perceive the same money can not every day put a signature that witnesses who are in this territory and do not yet have a job. We have suggested the systems to avoid these scams, but you have preferred to have a number of people take you by the backsliding, who now have to go chasing and I don't know if you will ever be able to recover the money. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. We are still talking about work: in the 11th Senate Commission, we examined the draft law No 2233, on agile work and self-employment, but in Italy we cannot talk about agile work, because it is not possible. There is such a close relationship between employer and worker that it is almost indissoluble. Marriage is perhaps a lighter relationship: you are first separated from a spouse, or today from a partner or partner, than from your employer. That's not good. Methods to overcome this situation are around the world and I believe that Australian is among the smartest. First, there is a flat tax at work, at 17%. Then the worker decides how much time to devote to work and whether to work for one, two or five different employers: each will hold and pay the related taxes, according to a fixed tax, that is flat tax. This combines the needs of workers and employers and no longer serves the laws for women workers, mothers, those who need to care for the disabled. [[Call the president back.]] I have concluded, Mr President. The employer, therefore, is not forced to do great insanity, but can hire a worker for two hours as it can be for certain jobs. We think of a pizzeria, that if it were forced to employ the same amount of staff, from Monday to Saturday, it would be forced to close or customers, on Saturday, should wait outside the door to be served. The real revolution would be to make work flexible. If instead we want to try to sell other truths, we have seen that, playing with numbers, you can do anything. But be careful: you can't make people believe that everything is okay and that taxes decrease, because every single citizen makes his own accounts and sees that he is increasingly impoverished! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u18	We greet the students and teachers of the technical and professional scientific center "Enrico Fermi-Giovanni Giorgi" of Lucca, who attend our works. Thank you for your presence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, once again we are examining budgetary documents which, if considered in their own right, and in the context of the economic development of the country, denounce all their shortcomings and, above all, the state of difficulty in which the country finds itself and the inability of the Government to remedy them. If we were to compare each of them to its context, that is, the Statement of Economics and Finance for 2015, with all the Notes of variation, with the law of stability and with the law of settling, and if we were to examine the Assestazione of the budget of the State in relation to the DEF, the Notes and the law of stability last year and then to the future Statement, we would always be faced with a very uncomfortable picture, also from the point of view of the seriousness of the documents. In fact, we always have excessive forecasts and we always have a law of stability that favours the increase in public spending and very often, as has been the case for two years, the privilege in the sense of captivating electoral benevolence. Today we are running out of referendary date and, therefore, we expect, once again, a law of stability full of captivating proposals. Maybe then, in the combination of the dates, someone will realize that the captivating proposals can also fade away before a negative result of the referendum itself. We are faced with this sequence of documents, which unfortunately shows the state of absolute difficulty of our economy, but which is largely not due to external factors, as colleagues in the majority have repeatedly thought to highlight and that they are certainly there. In fact, in recent years, external factors have been more favourable to a push of the Italian economy: from the decrease in oil prices, to the exchange rate with the dollar, to international rates, to a whole series of contingents that in other contexts and, above all, with another government leader could have allowed positive results. On the other hand, in our public accounts, following an examination of these documents, we find an increase in public debt, an increase and a non-reduction in public expenditure, unlike what has been promised and indicated several times, and we are faced with a resounding decrease in investment that the Court of Auditors highlighted this morning during its hearing at the joint session of the Budget Committees. This is certainly one of the most worrying data. We are also faced with a lack of reduction in the tax burden, beyond the proclamations and some indicators and the fact that, sometimes, even the survey institutions, after expressing negative data, are rushing, evidently adequately urged, to try to say something that can be improved compared to the past. The truth is that, if the revenue mount increases - as it increases, because according to the bulletins every month there is an increase - and does not increase GDP accordingly, it is clear that the incidence of tax pressure increases, beyond the recovery of evasion, which has fairly physiological quotas that do not present peaks of particular importance in any government. So much so that today the Government announces, always in the context of that collectio benevolentiae of the electorate that it considers absolutely indispensable to pursue at this stage, even a fiscal pardon and the possibility of a break-up of roles. It may have intercepted the desire of a part of our electorate to be circuited through these measures as it may not be true. But the truth is that a measure of this kind would certainly be useful to the coffers of the State and to a calming of the relations between taxpayer citizen, government and state, where - as I say for years here and in many others - the citizen is subjected to a sort of state usury due to the enormous impact of sanctions and interest on delays or omitted payments, which could be defined with much more wisdom to the benefit of the taxpayer and mainly the coffers of the State. It is a whole series of conditions and issues that confirm how the announcements made through the documents of economy and finance are aimed at purposes quite different from the consolidation of the state accounts and promote the increase of the productivity of the Country. The increase in productivity is not only zeroed, but I would say that it has even collapsed and clearly. We have seen the data on industrial orders in recent months and a whole series of data according to which GDP remains barely positive by a few tenths, but it is far less than the increase in the gross domestic product of the other Member States of Europe and the European average, not to mention the emerging countries in the world economic panorama. We are always taillights and we are even more so, unfortunately, at this moment. We will be discussing the Economic and Financial Document shortly, and in that case too, of course, we will come up against forecasts which we consider absolutely out of the picture, as the third-party observers who have heard them believe: the Bank of Italy, the Court of Auditors and the Parliamentary Budget Office. Despite all this, the Government continues to tell us that you can spend, that you can spend, save then take the resources by increasing the public debt or decreasing the investments. We witnessed two years ago a resounding snatch against the Mezzogiorno of more than 4.5 billion resources allocated to investments and used for the decontribution of new recruitments, a decontribution that already begins to mark the pace, because this year it has had to reduce to 40%, and that in two years will give us a huge employment bubble. In fact, those decontributions have not been linked to any obligation to keep employed workers in service, so the Italian companies, which we know are also a bit "furbette" in using the incentives that the Governments employ, will use for three years the decontribution and, having no obligation and not having obtained any increase in productivity, because this tells us the data, at the expiration of the decontributions themselves will, unfortunately, send back the hired workers. It was, therefore, a very low-profile government policy, both substantial and temporal, which, once again, will condemn the country to a further recession, if we had never left the previous one. (17.58) (Follow-up). We will certainly vote against these documents without even having to go down into the analysis of the individual posts, because from that analysis this picture would be even more tragic and perhaps they would delineate numbers artfully positioned to try to hide great magicians. [[Applause from Senator Alicata]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u21	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u22	Mr President, I wanted to speak in this debate, although I have the burden of the Presidency, and I thank you for allowing me to do so, because I believe that this reflection on the Budgetary Asset cannot ignore the reality and what is happening around us. It is true that we are discussing compliance, because the Assetment takes note of what has happened, but I cannot ignore the current situation. And so, since we are talking about the balance sheet and the role of the public administration and the government in the broad sense, I am very concerned - some mention has already been made in this area by my fellow Members who have preceded me - about what is happening in the banking world, where the Government and the State are also engaged and I have not yet understood what will happen for the purposes of the state budget - and this is the link of my intervention - with what is happening, precisely, in the banking world. Yesterday an alarm cry was launched by a very authoritative Italian journalist, Ferruccio De Bortoli, who wrote an article that is an inquiry rather than an editorial, about the "Corriere della Sera" to which today has responded, in some ways, the Minister of Economics and Finance. Ferruccio De Bortoli, who is not a journalist who would come to do a similar analysis improvising it and without having reflected, highlights how some mechanisms of the management of the Italian banking system with public interference work. So we, beyond the minuet on the Assestamento, on the budget and on what we are discussing, must go to the substance of the problems because - as De Bortoli wrote yesterday - there is a public debate almost absent, on events such as that relating to Monte dei Paschi di Siena and all that concerns it, like the Atlas Fund and other realities, even public ones, that somehow end up in the public budget. In the Mount of the Paschi of Siena the State has a participation of four percent, which will be a minority presence, but which has determined a series of precise choices. It happens that today the Minister of Economy, responding to De Bortoli, defines himself as a facilitator - a term that frankly I cannot associate with the Minister of Economy, especially with a figure as austere and severe as Padoan - and as a facilitator (it is not known what) would intervene to communicate that he had to change the administrator of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena. The Treasury has only four percent of this bank listed on the stock exchange, so much so that this intervention so improper of those who then have to manage the accounts, the adjustment, the financial rigour - to which we refer every day - was not welcomed by the president of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, Tononi, who even submitted his resignation. Then comes a Morelli, who had already been to the Monte dei Paschi di Siena as administrator, welcome to the bank JP Morgan, who turns out to be the great protagonist of this affair, and, by chance, the President of the Council, at the request of Costamagna, meets Dimon, the number one exponent of the JP Morgan ( Ferruccio De Bortoli tells us this always), in the presence of Grilli (who today works at JP Morgan, but who we also met in Parliament, in various stages and in various contexts) as general director of the Treasury Department and then as Minister of the economy. Afterwards, however, many of these problems occurred even when some operations related to the Monte dei Paschi di Siena had seen the protagonist of the then general manager Grilli, who returns as representative of JP Morgan. Now, since in Italy we spoke for a long time...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u23	Senator Gasparri, the setting up of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u24	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Are the assailants settling the budget or distracting it? My point is very elementary, Mr President, and thank you for allowing me to reason. Padoan is a facilitator and not an arranger; Grilli was at the Treasury Department, then at JP Morgan, but when he was at the Treasury, he dealt with things of enormous public importance. We are talking about 28 billion sufferings. The Treasury has four percent participation, but four percent of a bank that has 28 billion suffering what does it do? More than a billion sufferings. If we wanted to divide the suffering as a percentage of the shareholders, the Treasury would have a billion. As I see that every now and then we make announcements of the kind: one billion for pensions, one billion for that, we renew contracts, we settle the budget, it is not a foreign matter. Therefore, I say to myself - and I also say this, not in a polemic but worried way, to Deputy Minister Morando - we cannot have an abstract debate on important but marginal issues; here we must make the adjustment: two plus two is four. That is the result: I applaud. They could all vote in favour. We are opposed because we were opposed to the maneuver, and because we are opposed to that maneuver and its philosophy, we are opposed to the adjustment of the maneuver. We cannot argue that two plus two is four: it will all be correct in the column of numbers. The problem is what happens with these figures. Is there a hidden reality of debts, of exposures, which can be a cost? Therefore, we are approving the adjustment of a budget which could be distorted by events relating to the budget of these years. Yes, because we are not talking about the future, what will happen to the Mount of the Paschi of Siena, what the Atlas fund will do, what will happen to the four banks that have to be sold or not (I speak of the Bank of Etruria and the others), which will have some reflections. There is the Atlas fund, then inside there is the Deposit and Loan Fund, then the problem of the Venetian banks, which - for reasons of time and not to risk a call of extraneousness of matter - I do not want to mention. There are a number of problems, in short, but in the end we must guarantee the savers, who have ended up in these mincers and who have to be somehow protected and guaranteed. We have approved measures: will the money be enough, will it not be enough? So, in the end, Mr Calderoli, I share your call, but where are all these figures? How much is it? What's gonna happen? Are we approving an after-treatment or a dissension, dissension and omission? That's what I'm wondering. Everything that is denounced where it is written in the public accounts that we are finally discussing? This shareholder who has four percent what's he risking? Some might say that by now we had made the loan, that we have also earned because there were various majorities; no one could see inert to the failure of a bank like the Mount of the Paschi of Siena. Even if I remember, Mr President, being here in Parliament for a few years and having been the Parent Company in the previous parliamentary term, I have received several times the President of the ABI (and I could not have failed to receive him, in his institutional capacity). He came to talk to me, it was about the end of 2011, about the problem of the state's public budget, and the government that did not hold. He himself came to tell me that the situation was alarming. The ones with Mussari weren't secret meetings. He participated in conferences, having a "parainstitutional" role. But he certainly didn't come to tell me what they were up to. I hope he will be acquitted but, meanwhile, he has been sent back to trial. I ask Deputy Minister Morando, who is a careful observer and obviously extraneous to responsibility, but who at this stage has a role of government, what will happen to public budgets as a result of everything that has happened. I am referring to what has happened so far. For what will happen later, God helps us because the world context is just as complicated. My speech may seem foreign to the matter under consideration, but it is not. I wanted to do it out of a sense of responsibility, as a reminder to ourselves. The situation is, in fact, quite serious. If there was both yesterday's article and today's answer, it means that the concern of the opposition - who screams and makes sit-ins - is well founded and that this issue cannot be foreign to these reflections of ours. Then it is written in the text that two plus two is four, and no one doubts that it is so. We would not, however, want him to make three because of these events, and we would therefore not like to find ourselves with unbalanced and unsatisfied budgets. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u25	Mr President, the revenue and expenditure identified in the Statement, as well as the proposed adjustments, are the result of the economic policies defined in the Stability Act and in general in the DEF. 18.07 (Follow MANGILI). Avoiding highlighting the aspects related to numbers, which have already been widely cited, for us the set of data presented is absolutely unsatisfactory compared to the real condition of the country, the condition of the public accounts and, more generally, the challenges that await us. We criticise the lack of accuracy of the budget forecasts, which led to substantial changes in the adjustment and excessive optimism, which served as a framework for the budget construction for the current year. Your economic, fiscal and budgetary policies are the result of objectives based on sterile nominal indices such as GDP. This index, like all mathematical indices, is sterile, because it makes no difference between goods and goods. And it is obvious that the difference exists, indeed it exists. Goods are goods or services which are purchased by exchanging them for money, while goods are goods or services which respond to a need. We have spent our time introducing the fair and sustainable welfare indices, which contain real variables, including unemployment, quality of life, pollution, among the policy objectives to be pursued, but the majority have rejected this possibility. We fought for productive investments to be made in our country, but, due to the urgent need to contain public accounts and your strict compliance with European rules, vital public policies such as investments in infrastructure and public works aimed at that social welfare that the community needs. I would like to say that, however, this government has great plans on the great works! We have spent and spend on establishing a citizenship income, the European social model that Italy ignores. It seems absolutely incomprehensible to us that no attention should be paid to European unemployment benefits, despite the fact that Europe has been recommending us since 1992 to introduce a citizenship income (and that is not even the case with the crisis). This is a reality in all the countries of Europe. Not in Italy and Greece. On the other hand, the Government insists that the origin of the grace and weakness of the Italian recovery is certainly due to structural factors affecting our country. The government always says that we have a malfunction of what economists call the fundamental economic institutions, referring to the process of formation of human capital, to justice, to markets regulated in an unsatisfactory way and, above all, to political instability, indicated as the main culprit of the fundamental factors of depression of our competitive capacities compared with other countries. Given that a government should never and never promote constitutional reforms, on our part we believe that the quality of the institutions counts much, more than the much-called reforms. Too bad that the Italian institutional quality is far from light years not only from that of the virtuous countries of Northern Europe, but also from the average of the euro area. In fact, the economies of the countries in which the effectiveness of government action is least effective, the ability to enact and put into practice laws to promote economic development, respect for the principle of legality and control over corruption tend to stagnate and, without strong institutions, win the lobby. So putting in place reforms is not enough to revive the long-awaited growth. Before applying the rules on employment contracts, liberalising markets and amending the Constitution, it is necessary to reform the structure of the system, starting from the basis: respect for the laws and repression of crimes, starting from corruption. In short, we have two different perspectives to see the problems, with a totally different order of priority; but the real basic problem is the need to change that cultural paradigm that has led us to the breakdown, social and moral before even economic. Economics is not an exact science, but it has been assumed as incontrovertible truth and as a driving force for the unique development of social well-being. The failure of this model is before our eyes with all its gravity. A cultural model that should have ensured widespread well-being generated the opposite: a concentration of unprecedented wealth in history, a dramatic poverty at all levels, a moral and spiritual degradation, a level of individualism and permanent conflict, which has disrupted the social system, starting with the family, and left young people without future prospects, both in terms of values and economics. The crisis depends on men and not on natural and unpredictable events. What responsibility do these men have? I'll finish. Economists have built a model based on infinite growth; but it is clear that infinite growth is not possible on a finite planet. So it is natural to approach the idea of decline and try to find new solutions to the reality that surrounds us. And the decline is not negative growth; the latter is what we are experiencing today and which produces unemployment, less funding for culture, health and the environment. Degrowth is a provocative slogan, which serves to explain the need to break definitively with the patterns on which this society is founded, in order to get out of the faith of the market, putting the person at the centre, and from the religion of development at all costs, creating a sustainable future. Even if you can't see it, another world is possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u26	I will refer you to the follow-up of the joint discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u29	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, Alstom, a company which, among other things, has been involved in the construction of power plants, has recently sold this part of its production to General Electric. In these days General Electric has informed the institutions and workers of the will to close the plant of Sesto San Giovanni. It is clear that the closure is not due to an industrial crisis, but to a restructuring process that aims to close a plant and reuse elsewhere the patents and know-how that were built in that plant. Taking into account that General Electric has received various incentives from the State to invest in Italy, I find it serious that in these days, after that announcement and after the Government opened a negotiating table at the Ministry of Economic Development, the same has abandoned that table, proving unavailable to any kind of negotiation; table, the one opened by the Government, supported with the contribution of the mayors of the territory and the unions. The table had been opened to the Ministry of Economic Development precisely because the objective was not simply to safeguard jobs, but the entire plant, with all that it entails. I think it is right that from this House comes to the Government the request to insist and force General Electric to return to the table in order to safeguard the more than 200 jobs of that plant, but above all to safeguard an important plant for the city of Sesto San Giovanni and for the territory of the North of Milan. We know that the Government has been very committed in recent years to safeguarding our industrial and productive apparatus and I believe that from this point of view it is useful and important to continue in this direction, keeping that table open. It is not acceptable that an important person like General Electric, who has received significant incentives to invest in Italy, can make choices such as to close a factory and take away know-how and patents, but above all it is not tolerable the closing attitude that General Electric shows. It is serious that they have risen from the table, but even more serious it is to have prevented the mayor of Sesto San Giovanni from bringing to the workers in agitation the solidarity of the city. I close by asking the Government, before these wrong attitudes, to summon General Electric to respond to such behavior and express the will not to let the patrimony of production and work that it has taken over from Alstom of Sesto San Giovanni be dispersed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u32	Borioli (PD). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this late sitting speech I continue today in the Senate a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. In the night between 28 and 29 September, in Valencia, my city, in the Province of Alexandria, Rita Giuseppa Lercara, sixty-seven years old, was killed by stabbing. Her husband was arrested for the murder. Rita is the fifteenth woman we remember in this relay, which began only on June 30th. I knew her, although I hadn't met her in recent times, also because Valencia is a small community where you know everyone a bit. Not only that: with her and her first husband, from whom she had been widowed many years ago, I also shared, during the 1990s, a stretch of common political militancy. Rita Lercara had spent her working life in the local public administration, dedicating herself to the care of the elderly guests of the nursing home: an activity carried out with dedication and affection towards her caregivers. In the last few days, in Gorgonzola in the province of Milan, instead, she saved herself from similar fate by throwing herself from the balcony a woman of forty-one years, mother of three children, to whom her husband wanted to set fire, after having sprinkled her with gasoline. And again, she has been raped in Colle Oppio, just in these days, a young Australian woman; a violence suffered which, for the place where it happened, stands in that four percent of the total rape cases of which women are victims, which more come to the attention of the public because they happen in public and open spaces, but which must not make us forget the enormous case of rapes that women suffer in the domestic environment. ISTAT informs us that a woman is killed in Italy every 2.2 days. 46.3 percent of the women killed die at the partner's hands. The severity of sexual and physical violence has increased. Cases of assisted violence are also growing. Despite, even in the case of Rita Giuseppa Lercara, the newspapers talk about a possible raptus of madness, the feminicide is almost always the extreme result of a series of long-standing violent behaviors. And let me say that it is disconcerting to see how in this context, already so serious, some broadcasts also of great audience such as the "Big Brother" on Channel 5, for the responsibility of some irresponsible, also come messages that somehow legitimize the behaviour of feminicide. With Law No 119 of 2013 against gender violence, which this Parliament approved in implementation of the Istanbul Convention, our country has recognised violence against women as a violation of human rights and gender discrimination. He acknowledged that violence against women is a social phenomenon that has its roots in the relationship of asymmetrical power between men and women. This is why it can be prevented by intervening on the factors that determine it. That is why a plan against violence against women has been proposed and approved, and in the meantime, instruments of protection have been strengthened to ensure greater safety for women threatened. However, it is necessary to monitor that these measures work and that the plan is implemented. Let us therefore make our appeal with conviction. An appeal to the Minister with delegation for equal opportunities and to the Government everything: the directing booth, which met for the first time on September 8 last, monitors the application, the merits and the limits of law n. 199 of 2013, and above all give full and accurate implementation of the plan against violence. An appeal to the media: stop justifying murderers and blaming women. An appeal to the country, men and women: 160 women are killed every year; we can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u35	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of the Government, and in particular to the Ministers of Health and Agricultural Policy, the heavy and difficult situation that is alarming and unfortunately putting on their knees the farmers of Veneto, in particular the farms of Belluno, that completely mountainous Province where the breeders also play an ecosystem garrison and care of the territory. In fact, it has been established by the competent health authorities, and it is unfortunately still ongoing in the Veneto Region, an epidemic of bluetongue, an infectious disease. Some fifteen outbreaks have already been established and it is hoped that they will be stopped, but unfortunately the Region has not acted in the right times and ways. In fact the sector is already strongly in crisis, an external crisis to this happen. The alarm for the risk of diffusion of the typology, also known as the blue language, scares for the reflections both on the commercial transactions due to the blocking of the movement of the animals, arranged by the competent health authorities, and of course for the direct damage to the flocks. So it is an economy that really suffers a great deal of damage. The serious delay - as I had already said - with which the Veneto Region intervened for the detection and the contrast of the epidemic, the absence of a resolution that would orient and support the vaccination plan, the orientation to cover only the costs for the vaccination intervention on sheep and goats, with the non extension to cattle, pose serious difficulties for the breeders. And it is for this reason that I ask there is an urgent investigation on the state and effectiveness of the interventions arranged by the Veneto Region, to understand whether it was an autonomous decision of the Region itself or whether it was the Ministry of Health that gave these indications. I think it is fundamental and very important to understand the decision-making process and why it has been decided to intervene with vaccines on certain heads and not on others. As I said, the virus continues to spread, creating many losses and difficulties for our farmers. And while it is true that the virus does not affect people, who therefore feel safe, it is also true that response interventions are not proportional to needs. Our farmers want more effective and clearer answers. There is no contagion for man (and this is perhaps one of the reasons for late intervention), but the damage of this epidemic must be detected, involving more people and weighing on the economy more than one might think. It is an important economy, which must be defended, on which this Government must intervene to give support. [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u38	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to stress and inform you of yet another episode of environmental disaster and of the jobs that, on the other hand, we could create with the reclamations and green production. The episode dates back a few days ago; the press informs us that, in the province of Padua, during an inspection of the Finance Guard, an abusive landfill of waste - yet another - was placed under seizure where waste of all kinds was abandoned and in which, among other things, they also found railway sleepers. The trivial railway sleepers which, however, are so trivial are not, because they contain creosote oil, a mixture of chemical compounds derived from the distillation of coal tar, with which the sleepers were impregnated to increase their durability characteristics. Creosote, therefore, is a wood conservation agent. The problem is that it is a complex mixture of more than 200 chemical compounds and may contain more than 30 different hydrogenated aromatic hydrocarbons concentrated up to 85 percent. There are qualified clinical and epidemiological studies that have definitively established the carcinogenicity of benzopyrene content. In short, the creosote is extremely toxic: many of its components are bioaccumulable and the degradation of these elements is very slow (twenty or thirty years). In this period of time, a sleeper gives (as it were) to the environment about five kilograms of creosote, then five kilograms of pure poison. These considerations are certainly not mine, but reiterated by the European Commission, which stated this in a special statement. Of course, we totally and unconditionally condemn the perpetrators of this illegal disposal and, vice versa, commend the work of the Finance Guard in this type of intervention. But beyond this umpteenth environmental disaster, I would like to stress two aspects which affect the creation of tens of thousands of jobs. We can create tens of thousands of jobs with the reclamations and the security of the past of our production. Looking to the future, however, this should urge us for the umpteenth time to produce industrial policy measures - which are lacking - aimed at facilitating the creation of as many tens of thousands of jobs to move from the dangerous, deadly, petrochemical to green chemistry, of which we had a positive peak last Saturday with the inauguration of a biorefinery. Too bad this is an exceptional case and not the norm. As a 5 Star Movement, if we were in the government, we would reverse this situation and the opening of clean factories, operating in the way of the circular economy, of which too many fill their mouths, would become the rule and not the exception. What does the government do? Announce the green act and then, miserably, shut up. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u39	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-691.ana.u40	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Wednesday 5 October, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 6.30 p.m.
