ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on the prospects for the cereals and fruit and vegetables sectors and agriculture of precision and introduction of technological innovation tools, to which the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Dr Martina, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us now turn to the questions on the prospects for the cereals and fruit and vegetables sectors. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each. I'm gonna have to be a little stiff to let everyone stay inside the time schedule.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u6	RUTA (PD). Minister, over the past few months, a number of trade associations in the cereals sector have protested in the streets to denounce the fall in prices, particularly wheat. The offer of Italian cereals is not in fact placed on the market, if not with great difficulty, because our cereals are economically less competitive than those produced in other European countries, which use different production standards and quality controls less rigid than ours. Not only the production of wheat and the survival of over 300,000 farms that cultivate it are in danger, but also a territory - especially in the South of Italy - of two million hectares at risk of desertification, but above all the high quality levels for consumers guaranteed by the production made in Italy. From a few cents per kilo granted to farmers depends on the survival of the most representative chain of Made in Italy, while from wheat to pasta the prices increase by about 500 percent and those from wheat to bread even 1,400 percent. What measures does the Government intend to take to regulate the market? What is the state of implementation of the measures provided for in the agreement signed at the Ministry on 20 July with the trade unions and institutional organizations in the cereals sector? What initiatives have been taken to give strength to the Italian wheat-bread-pasta supply chain? In particular, not least, how many resources have been provided for in the law of stability or in further measures to increase the fund, currently of 10 million, as announced by the Government itself, that we know that we are fully concerned that this supply chain grows and strengthens?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u9	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not think we need to speak now. We are here to question, in the face of a situation in the cereals sector which is dramatic. Although there is a desire in my question to understand what you, Minister, and this Government, want to do, I already have an answer, because I see that the total aid you have allocated amounts to about EUR 10 million. I'm definitely an inevitability to the problem. If we had to divide them for all the quintal products, making the classic accounts very banal, but clear and flashy, we would realize how a few cents per quintal does not serve anything for an entire sector in crisis, with unvalued products, foreign products and a chain that is not there. Minister, we must act immediately because companies are shutting down. We're at 40-year-old prices. Companies shut down and, whatever it may be, young people no longer believe it, because so they cannot be guaranteed a dignified future.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u12	FACTORS (M5S). Minister, in the face of the crisis in quality cereal in Italy, we have recently discussed in the Commission the document linked to the reorganization of the Council for Agricultural Research and Analysis of the Agricultural Economy (CREA). The center is of research but within the three-year plan there are many guidelines of political and administrative character. In particular, it emerges from the reading of the document and from the quality of the acts issued by the Commission, as for the different sectors there are interventions of an extemporaneous and non-programmatic nature, not even of protection compared to elements related to unforeseen events, such as aethina tumida and xylella. Of course we understand how there is a direction towards improving the productivity of the sector through new technologies, but the photography that emerges makes the pair with the last annual report on agriculture. Let me explain better: from the data present in the analysis of the yearbook, the agricultural sector would be growing. More specifically, however, soil consumption increases, the sector that we might call classic is stagnant, as the farmers tell us, while the sector that grows the most is that linked to biomass and biogas disposal plants, which as we know is fed by low quality cereals, while our farmers are forced to sell high quality cereals. The reordering of the CREA is full of indications on this matter. Mr Martina, we would like to ask you whether it would not be better to re-launch the traditional cereals sector of quality and to devolve this type of activity to the energy sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u15	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, the situation in the cereals and fruit and vegetables sectors is very difficult. In the first we see a dramatic fall in prices which puts the activity of hundreds of companies at risk and in the second there are similar problems. Let us first look at the cereals sector. The Government has already taken some action: it has set up the Fund for cereal enterprises and I think that this is going in the right direction, with the aim of supporting supply chain contracts, enhancing quality, encouraging the use of certified seed and the voluntary single label. But the budget, Minister, should certainly be increased: I mean it as a first allocation. We must support our producers and believe in them - many of our producers still believe in them, despite everything seems to conspire against them - and it is also part of believing that we should continue some of the commitments that have been mentioned recently. I am referring to the national cereal plan, on which I ask you where we stand. Then there is a single Commission for durum wheat and the announced guarantee insurance instrument: it would be good for you to take stock of these instruments. In the fruit and vegetable sector, also this subject of a crisis not indifferent, we suffer the decrease of domestic consumption. We lost 15% between 2007 and 2013 and increased labour, transport and energy costs. What, then, does the Ministry intend to do in this direction? Is it not appropriate to put a hand, with energy, in drawing up a national strategic plan, clearly in agreement with the groups concerned? Minister, let us give our producers a sign of real hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u18	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Dear Minister, the port of Bari is, in our country, the most important place of transit and unloading of imported wheat, coming for the most part from Turkey, Ukraine and Canada. It is precisely with Canada, as is well known, that the Global Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) which provides for the abolition of customs duties on imports was reached a few days ago in extremis. In fact, therefore, what was increasingly manifested as a deterrent, although weak and not always effective, because it was not associated with an adequate support policy, was finally removed. Currently, according to Coldiretti, in Italy a pack of pasta in five is already produced entirely with Canadian wheat. To this data I add the provision of the Ministry of Health on the prohibition in Italy of the use of surfers during pre-harvesting, for the sole purpose of optimizing the harvest or threshing. Of course, this requirement is not provided for foreign products treated in similar ways, such as wheat from the USA and Canada, where intensive use is made of this and other herbicides precisely in the pre-harvest phase, to dry and artificially guarantee a high protein level. I therefore ask you, Minister, what initiatives you intend to take to deal with what is likely to become a real yellow tsunami on our country. I would also ask you whether you have already identified measures and processes to better guarantee and safeguard the health and quality of pasta production, which represents and well summarizes - I think I am not mistaken - as few other products, made in Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u21	GAMBARO (AL-A). Minister, several trade agreements have already been signed between the European Union and third countries for several years, such as the agreement with Morocco, with a view to the reciprocal liberalisation of agricultural products, including tomatoes, which can therefore be exported at very low tariffs at the Italian borders. These agreements are therefore further exacerbating the crisis affecting a very important sector of our fruit and vegetable economy. It should also be borne in mind that the same infringements of competition and the lack of effective traceability and genuine transparency towards consumers are also taking place in the wheat sector, that Italy imports in significant quantities, amounting to 4.8 million tonnes of common wheat and 2.3 million tonnes of durum wheat, and that European legislation does not provide for any obligation to indicate the origin of wheat on the label, with the result that, while purchasing Italian brands, the consumer cannot ensure that for their production wheat made in Italy has been used. In the light of these considerations, it is asked to know: how the Minister intends to promote appropriate support measures for companies operating in the fruit and vegetable sector, with a view to restoring effective competitiveness; whether he intends to take prompt action, at the appropriate locations, in order to adopt measures aimed at providing for greater rigour in the procedures for monitoring the hygiene and health standards on imported fruit and vegetables, especially from North Africa; what initiatives he intends to take, in the appropriate European fora, to protect the interests of the cereals and fruit and vegetables sector and if he does not believe it is necessary to inaugurate opportunities for comparison with the southern regions most concerned.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u24	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr Minister, a few days ago, on 25 October, a demonstration took place in Bettolle, which took place in the news as the funeral of Italian wheat, attended by several hundred farmers, who highlighted in a very exemplary way the dramatic paradoxes. We've come to a situation where six kilograms of wheat are the same value as a coffee cup. This means that we have really come to the extreme. Today, asking our farmers to continue on this slope, when we have a foreign import and competition that drives Italian wheat production out of the market, it means asking them to give up their business, because the cost is now unsustainable. We know and, unfortunately, we are now aware, that we have reached below EUR 18 per quintal for agricultural producers, that they cannot even cover the production costs, compared with EUR 180 per quintal paid by consumers for the dried pasta produced. At this point we ask the Minister what serious, real and concrete initiatives are being taken into account and are being taken, because it can no longer simply be a declaration of principle, we really need to move on to the facts and the facts also need measures against duties and against measures that block foreign imports.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u27	LIUZZI (CoR). Minister, the cereals and fruit and vegetables sectors are severely weakened by the savage competition and the tax and contribution inequality of our direct European and Mediterranean competitors. How do we intend to make the most of our productions and protect the income continuity and full employment of the sector? Recently, the Government, with the legitimate and just intent to counter the caporalate, has in fact inflicted new and more complex burdens and obligations on the sector, but they risk to put on their knees the entire bought fruit and vegetables. How does it intend to intervene in order to avoid the permanent closure of thousands of companies with the loss of billions of euros of turnover and, above all, of thousands of jobs? In relation to the cereals sector, we are witnessing a shameful speculation which sees our farmers fail and international fraudsters get rich. How do you intend to intervene? How the Government could assess the possibility of using first the durum wheat produced in our country and, subsequently, that from abroad. In Puglia, Minister, there are virtuous examples in this regard, excellences of pasta factories that produce and transform wheat from the contermini territories of Puglia and Lucano. Is there a plan in concert with the agricultural and agricultural organizations that envisages and enhances the supply chain of wheat and pasta and which favours the product entirely made in Italy? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Dr Martina.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u28	Madam President, I would like to thank the Senators for the questions they have asked me. I will try to respond to all the major issues that have been highlighted. We have been following for several months the crisis of the market and of the chain of wheat; in particular since last year we started to work on the idea of a national plan for the supply chain wheat-paste, with the awareness that also this supply chain, like - alas - other food chains of our country, live an internal organization deficit that we inherit from an objectively fragile situation of the past years that in some way we must try to overcome today. Concretely, for the first time this country has a national cereal plan with 10 million euros as the first budget post to activate some instruments. I absolutely agree with you that they are not enough, but we need to work for that budget to be strengthened. I see that in the parliamentary debate on the budget maneuver, here and in the House, there are the conditions for strengthening this fund. I would point out, however, that this first budget post has allowed over the past few weeks to start an activity, in particular on supply chain contracts, to accompany a unitary work of producers and processors in some territories, in order to help get out of the complicated situation in which we were in recent weeks. Already today prices are different from those of a few weeks ago, which does not mean, of course, that we have solved the whole issue, but we are certainly facing a better scenario, on which to set a strategy. There is no doubt that one of the levers on which we want to invest is precisely that of supply chain contracts, with the aim of increasing the hectares under supply chain contract in this country. We are at 80,000 hectares; we can reasonably reach 100,000 hectares quickly if we push through these mechanisms, so if we equip the producer and the transformer, who sign a contract of understanding on quality, quantity and price, of an extra quid determined by the contribution that we can offer. Those 100 euros per hectare that we put on the supply chain contract today do not solve the whole issue, but they are a variable not indifferent to allow a sensitive use of these contracts. The reactions on the most interested territories - I am thinking of Emilia-Romagna, Puglia, the great cereal regions - and, in particular, in Puglia, show that the effects of this new instrument are becoming felt and, in my opinion, are a premise of the work that we must do. In addition to this, I would point out that, in relation to European funds, we confirmed last July, precisely in the midst of the market crisis, European coupled aid (CAP) for wheat for an equivalent of EUR 70 million per year for the next seven years. You can easily count: we are essentially committing ourselves to the supply chain, in particular coupled aid, for an intervention that is almost 500 million over the next seven years. It is coupled aid that goes directly to the producer and is part of that integration that we guarantee in the medium-long term, in particular for the weakest link in the supply chain. The third aspect has been mentioned by President Formigoni and is one of the most important issues for me. We are in a position, before the next campaign, to be able to experiment, unique in Europe, an insurance on revenues for the producers of wheat. We have worked on the fundamental scaffolding of the insurance instrument and on the construction of a first budget that supports this operation; I note that we will be the first to experience an insurance of this nature. It is a gigantic laboratory for us, because we will understand whether, in fact, with insurance, we will be able to contribute, in the most difficult moments of the market, to supporting, in particular, the producers. Basically, we have defined the fundamentals of this work on policies within the annual agricultural insurance plan. I would like to mention one last point on this point, which is crucial for us: we are now in a position, in agreement with Mr Calenda, to take a historic step on the road to traceability and labelling. Exactly in the wake of the work done with milk, we will be in a position, in the coming days, to close an Italian trial of traceability and labelling of the wheat-pasta chain that will mark a turning point, in my opinion, after so many discussions over the years with regard to this issue. We are working with the Ministry of Economic Development and, I must say in a very positive relationship, with the whole supply chain, and I believe that this will be a fundamental point to guarantee the elements, also recalled by you, of greater information, traceability and recognizability of the product in the wheat-paste chain. As far as fruit and vegetables are concerned, I put a general hat on it. If we have come so far with a major reduction in the tax burden, first with the abolition of the IMU, then with the abolition of the IRAP, finally with the abolition of the agricultural IRPEF in this budgetary maneuver, these choices have not been rash or extemporaneous, but respond to a fundamental topic, which we have always had at the head: protecting the income of those who live on agriculture with all possible levers; the tax lever for a Government is one of the most immediate. The lowering of the tax burden by overcoming these three taxes marks a significant turning point for a sector. Very concretely, we are talking about a billion 300 million less taxes in two years. That is not all, there is still a lot to be done, but it is certainly a choice which, in my opinion, has its own historical scope, given how the sector had been managed and dealt with so far. In the field of fruit and vegetables, it is clear that the key issue is the organizational one. We have the enormous need to work more and better on producer organisations. In many realities where we go into crisis when the market is struggling, the first real argument is the disorganization of producers. That must be made clear. It is not possible, in some cases, to have a multiplicity of subjects that alone cannot cope with market crises. We also have all the real experiences in the crisis in the fruit and vegetable sector, when producer organisations are structured in a strong way. Our aim is to work more, in agreement with the supply chain, on the reorganization of the rules for the establishment and promotion of producer organisations. We have the opportunity of the new national strategy for the fruit and vegetable CMO that, I point out, in this country has always been managed and used very well. That is the strong tool to make this qualitative leap all organizational, because without this change of pace there will be no tool to manage a market dynamic that has seasonal complexity even undefined from year to year and that varies, often, from week to week. This is the real lever on which we are trying to insist. I would also add that, on the other hand, with regard to the theme of the National Research Plan, which has been placed on me, I claim the very important novelty of that Plan, because for the first time in years we are going back to investing in agricultural research. Twenty-one million dedicated to some very specific works, specifically the Made in Italy crops of our territories, are a fact of absolute importance that has not been seen for some time. This Plan also intersects with the great novelty of Industry 4.0, where we worked, always together with Minister Calenda and MISE, to a specific investment on the agriculture side of precision as a fundamental development axis for the primary sector. The fact that these two paths can travel together for me marks an extraordinary opportunity to develop innovation and technology on the side of our Made in Italy crops, going - and you will see it in the research plan - culture by culture, to indicate precisely where we invest, for what reason, towards what goal. We are in a position, with the Plan, to make this qualitative leap. We will present it, specifically, in the next few days at the Accademia dei Georgofili in Florence and I believe that we can see, even in successive steps of parliamentary confrontation, that this Plan accompanies a bet of innovation and investment on research anything but insignificant for a fundamental sector such as agri-food. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u31	RUTA (PD). Minister, well the supply chain contracts; good the action on insurance; good the understanding with the MISE for the narrating label that Italy needs: the Italians, the consumers, not only the internal market, but also the foreign one. On Made in Italy we play our future. So, on a type of agriculture and not just on any agriculture. That's why we're already the most controlled country and that's why the direction is the right one. The financial problem remains, so I can declare myself satisfied, along with the commitment you made, that in the passage between the House and the Senate of the bill of stability (or any other measure, provided that there is) we move from the current 10 million, of which seven are destined to 2017, to double with another 10 million. If there is an initiative of the Government, well; if there is not, I invite colleagues who share exactly, as far as they have said, this position, to propose our amendment on which the Government, in the person of Minister Martina, undertakes to give a favourable opinion. I am thinking of a common amending proposal to double the budget for Italian wheat supply chain contracts from 10 million to 20 million, so that we can all win this game together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u34	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. Minister, I don't want to, but I think the reasons put forward are totally ineffective. I sometimes get the impression that one loves to do more of the academy than to see what the actual problems of agriculture are. Agriculture suffers from the energy gap relative to the cost of operating the means that is far higher than that of other European countries. There is no point in talking about 100 euros per hectare (if that is true, I would like to check that), when we lose 300 euros only because of the difference in the cost of agricultural diesel per kilometre. With this I also introduce the issue of precision agriculture, but we will then see it. I consider these initiatives to be ineffective and structural measures are lacking. If these are the government's initiatives today, as a farmer, as well as as as a senator, I am seriously concerned. Minister, that is not how we solve the problems of our agriculture, if at some point we also comply with European labelling rules and accept that the place of production of the product should be removed from olive oil. It does not seem to me that our agriculture is being given a good signal, whether it is the cereals sector, the fruit and vegetable sector or the olive growing sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u37	FACTORS (M5S). Mr Martina, I think you have the wrong question, or you have the wrong answer, because I asked you something else: precision agriculture is about the next question. I asked you, Minister, why, within the CREA project, there are so many projects of study on biogas plants that are fed by low quality cereals; I didn't ask you if you liked the programme you presented, because I imagine you like it. In fact, if you give incentives to biogas plants and put money to study anaerobic composting to produce energy, it is clear that it goes towards the production of low quality cereals. I expected you to answer me differently. Obviously it doesn't have the answer, but if you want to upgrade the made in Italy and the quality wheat certainly do not give incentives to the biogas plants that mostly use corn of the last category, if not GMOs, or anyway plants that have nothing to do with the cereal sector of quality. I'd like you to study the answers to the questions every time you come to this House and not do a show about what you produce. Research is fine, precision farming is fine, but that was not the question. The question was: how could you encourage biogas plants using low quality cereals instead of enhancing quality Made in Italy? Please give us the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u40	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, I believe that the Government of which you are a member and which we support has, over the past few years, launched a series of measures in favour of Italian agriculture in the right direction. This, I believe, must be recognized by everyone. Certainly our farmers are faced with traditional difficulties that have been increased by the terrible economic crisis that we all know, but the Government and Parliament have moved in the right direction. Today you have made important commitments, which we all keep in mind and emphasize, because we must go on supporting a sector that in recent years, despite the difficulties, has been able to grow and has done so in a very significant way. So we increase the appropriations and move towards that new income insurance contract, because these are the roads that modern agriculture teaches and in which Italian operators will be able to react positively.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u43	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). The Minister's reply partially satisfies me, because I imagined that he would present us with the initiatives that the Government intends to take from now on and not tell us about the initiatives that have already been taken and that appear, in the light of the results, at least from a quantitative point of view, unsatisfactory. I hope that from this point of view there will be a change of pace, because also good intentions, those of the cereal plan or an experiment of the project on traceability, to be interpreted to the best need financial assistance. In fact, a cereal plan for a country like Italy with a budget of 10 million over two years becomes just a manifesto and nothing more. And we, unfortunately, do not need posters, but to intervene forcefully on problems that have now become structural.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u46	GAMBARO (AL-A). Minister, I think it's been quite exhaustive. I welcome these wheat supply chain contracts and the doubling of the funds, so thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u49	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Minister, in your speech you have boasted of a traceability and a chain that instead need much more concreteness; moreover, when you first recalled the results obtained by the Government regarding the milk supply chain, it must also be remembered that on 14 October the interministerial decree had an imprimatur by the European Union, but it has a deadline that is 31 March 2019. That measure will not last forever, but it has been accepted by silence and consensus, and this puts us in a position of extreme dependence on the will and choices of the European Union. On these aspects we want much more determination than what the Government is demonstrating and cannot leave a result to silence-consent, statements must be made. As has been correctly said in previous interventions, resources are needed. These are important actions, otherwise they are only sermons.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u52	LIUZZI (CoR). Madam President, I too am partially satisfied with the Minister's reply. I take note of the commitment he has made here on behalf of the Government also to the rather heavy legacy of the agricultural policies of recent years, particularly with regard to the validity of our commitment to the tables that count in Europe in the past decades, of which we are still spending today. I would have liked the Minister to tell me something more specific about the fight against the caporalate and in particular the intention not to criminalise all companies that still do their duty in the agricultural field.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u53	Let us now turn to the questions on agriculture concerning precision and the introduction of technological innovation instruments, which will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Dr Martina, who, moreover, has already given some anticipations in the previous reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u56	PIGNEDOLI (PD). Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to stress how important it is that you have set the objective of using new technologies and increasing from 1% to 10% of agricultural land on which to use new technologies and apply precision agriculture. It is important because I believe that working to increase the health of the productions, improve the quality of the land, ensure the production traceability and reduce the unproductive times by increasing the profitability of the enterprises means working to consolidate the fundamental factors for the competitiveness of the Italian agricultural sector. It is the central challenge that we are facing in recent years, keeping together quality, efficiency of companies and, as he said, responding to the first topic, organization. Of great impact for the increase of technological innovations will be the Plan Industry 4.0 which, besides having a rightly cross-sectoral approach and an interministerial management, provides a system of decisive incentives for an acceleration of the use of mechanical technologies and equipment. It is therefore asked to know what is the state of the art of the planning of precision agriculture and Agrifood planned within the Industry 4.0 Plan and in this context, since the plan provides for the possibility of increasing the depreciation up to 250 percent also for agricultural machinery, if they have been identified by the commission specifically established the types in detail of agricultural machinery that will benefit from the hyper depreciation, which would lead to a saving of up to 36% and therefore to a real opportunity to accelerate the process of innovation of precision practices. The time taken to decide on these measures is important, because it is a question of giving companies the opportunity, already within the next agricultural season, to carry out planning and programming, knowing what resources are available and on which technologies they intend to aim to create more utility and more value in the sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u59	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, precision agriculture, also known as precision farming, is a necessary agriculture, which cannot be spared. However, Minister, it is inevitable that he will return to the previous subject. There is never an equal and so important effect if no more effects are added at the same time. Therefore, we cannot focus only on precision agriculture, improving techniques, technologies, energy saving and respect for the environment, when then our products are worth nothing, we make a better product and it is no use at all, we have production protocols other than those of other European countries, which penalize us. The question I want to ask is: how do you intend to combine more aspects that agriculture needs? For goodness sake, we can also proceed by focusing individually on the different aspects, but it is necessary above all to combine more factors, if we want to get out of this crisis that has now become chronic.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u62	FACTORS (M5S). Minister, I would like to ask you a very specific question, hoping for a relevant answer from you. My question concerns a particular triangulation that concerns me very much and that sees in one context the Human Technopole, the CREA and the new biotechnology. At the beginning of the year you, Minister, declared yourself against GMOs and I must greatly appreciate the optout you signed so as not to grow them on national territory. However, you have financed research on new biotechnology which, according to the whole scientific world, are GMOs and therefore must be treated with extreme caution, so much so that we have asked and obtained, here in the Senate, a deal assigned, precisely to assess the impact, patentability and intellectual property of these new biotechnology in order to make them usable and democratic on national territory and above all without risk. I now find, in the act of reordering the CREA for the three years 2017-2019, in the phase of evaluation the project on the post-Expo, for which the center has advanced a proposal called "Seed development and seed composition: genetic bases and effects on human health." I remember that Human technopole will be a public-private partnership and we are particularly concerned about the giant Bayer Monsanto, which concerns not only us, but also public research workers, who fear that they are not able to compete with these giants. I would like to understand whether there will actually be a public-private partnership in Human Technopole for these new seed development and, if so, what safeguards you are putting in place to prevent public research from being overwhelmed by these giants who, coming out of the door, fall out of the window and tear down any hope of a "made in" and of a genetic improvement of quality, which is approved by all agricultural associations, by movements and by various associations that fear that GMOs will enter our territory through this fiction of new biotechnology, remembering, precisely, that intellectual property is largely in the hands of multinational companies. Please, Minister, give me a relevant answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u65	WRITER IN TOR (AP) (NCD-UDC). Minister, agriculture and animal husbandry are now constantly changing and changing, because they have to face many difficult problems, some immediate and some future ones, such as the progressive decrease in energy and primary resources currently used (oil and water on all), the constant increase in prices for the purchase of inputs, the decrease in selling prices of agricultural and zootechnical products, environmental pollution, animal welfare and the continuous and unstoppable change in the climate. Prior to the arrival of synthetic machinery and fertilizers - the so-called chemical fertilizers - traditional agriculture had very low productivity. The 2000s saw the peak of production thanks to fossil fuels. In the near future, however, it will be compulsory to practice, with the least possible use of fossil energy, a zootechnics and agriculture with a high degree of sustainability that, at the same time, are capable of feeding the world population. Therefore, technological innovation is fundamental, as it has been in the transition from manual to mechanical work and from mechanical to more intellectual work. The increase in innovative technologies (i.e. automation and increased use of information systems such as GPS, GIS and VRT), leads to very important improvements in operating (more hardware) and management (more software). Some examples are the assisted and automatic guidance of agricultural machinery, the elimination of reworkings and overlaps, the precise measurement of productions, the monitoring of the state of the soil and of crops through sensors, so as to be able to adjust the workings and organize differentiated distributions. The Minister is therefore asked whether it is not necessary in these areas to provide incentives, of a different nature, for companies to be able to equip themselves with the latest technologies, in order to increase, in the context of a precision agriculture, the production activity, while making it more sustainable at the environmental level; secondly, if it is not necessary to promote a greater dissemination of knowledge and research in these sectors, by making available to companies a network of highly qualified and independent supports (CREA, university) for highly qualified technical support.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u68	GAMBARO (AL-A). Minister, with regard to precision agriculture, it has been verified that the so-called assisted driving systems can be of great use. Most of these systems operate through a GPS receiver connected to the agricultural tractor or the combiner, allowing the real-time identification of the position, with the consequence, for example, of acting directly on the steering where the GPS keeps exactly parallel the past, bringing as benefits a less stress for the operator, saving time and waste because it avoids overlaps. Always using GPS systems, it is possible to locate the exact place where a sample of the soil to be analyzed was taken. In addition, there are systems that can detect the different parameters of production in the field. It is important to consult these data in order to understand in which areas it has produced more and in which less, and why: this helps in the choices to be made in the following year. In the light, therefore, of the importance of technological innovation instruments for our farmers, it is asked whether the Minister does not think it appropriate that the Government should provide certain incentives, including in the form of tax deduction, for those farmers who wish to develop precision farming strategies on their farm, through the purchase of these innovative instruments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u71	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Minister, I believe that in order to make sense of this question time we can, yes, talk about precision agriculture and the introduction of innovative tools and technology, as has been agreed, but we cannot pretend that the situation for agriculture in the areas affected by the earthquake, in Norcia and where they are experiencing it, is not dramatic. I come out of the seed and ask you for important interventions on this front. We are talking about an area that gives our country notoriety, turnover and pride of production. We are talking about people who do agriculture in a heroic way, staying in the mountains when many other young people, today, would have left already. On this front, in addition to precision agriculture, we ask you, Minister, to take immediate action. The government is preparing actions, which will also be known tomorrow; however, we know that some interventions are urgent, such as giving cover to the collapsed stables, rather than covering the same farmers: a caravan, a camper, a way to stay close to their own farms, their own production activities, their own stables. Already from these things we give the idea of a country that has the pride of its own production and of its own agricultural activity. I would also ask you, Minister, together with the Commission or otherwise, to take action to verify the territory in person: you will discover a world around Norcia and Valnerina, which has and can give a lot to our agriculture as an example for other countries, but which at this moment needs strong action and strong support.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u74	LIUZZI (CoR). Minister, research and innovation can be an opportunity for the revival of agriculture. Finally, we find a virtuous process which must be encouraged by the Government, on the part of those who hold the levers of power and therefore can decide together with Parliament, the Regions, and in agreement with the European Union. This virtuous phenomenon concerns young people and their strong return to agriculture, to the primary sector by name. Young people should not be disappointed or deceived. Well, young farmers are proposing themselves as new avenues of sustainable development, based on the massive use of technology, from nanotechnology to biotechnology, as well as information and communication technology. They must be placed in a supply chain with Italian and foreign research centres and universities, i.e. with knowledge centres that know how to transfer skills. Mechanical agriculture was a milestone in the second half of the twentieth century. The time has come for computerization in agriculture, computerized agriculture which invests in the sectors of fruit and vegetables, cereals, livestock and the dairy industry. How does the Government intend to do so? How does it intend to promote cooperation between institutions, universities and research centres? How will action be taken to promote the commitment of young people and specialized figures to enhance the quality of human resources? Finally, how can the use of precision tools be reflected in the information available to consumers? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Dr Martina. If you think, you can refer to the question raised by Senator Candiani, who certainly cares very much for everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u75	Madam President, I would like to start from that very question by thanking you for the question. We're working hard on the emergency. I can confirm this because, in particular, since the last major shock, we have stepped up our efforts and, as you know, tomorrow the Government will put into effect a decree. It is true that the agricultural front is extremely delicate: we have moved at a stroke from about 300 companies involved by the earthquake of 24 August to 3,000 farms involved, according to an initial estimate that is not yet complete. One can therefore understand the complexity of the intervention. We're working hard. I can confirm that on the day before yesterday, in agreement with the regions, we defined a measure of extraordinary support for income, in particular for farmers, which will be measured substantially with an extraordinary contribution to head, animal, to give immediate support to the breeders and guarantee the continuity of the farm in an extremely delicate condition. In order to ensure continuity there is a need for intervention as quickly as possible with temporary structures and, in order to do this, the quantities of temporary stables and temporary housing dedicated to farmers will be doubled immediately. The assembly phase of these structures is now organized and planned from next week. As you can understand, however rapid it may be, there is a need for public evidence procedures, which must ensure maximum transparency and legality. Therefore, even if the timing is reduced to a minimum, certain advertising objectives must be properly met. Concretely, we will double the quantities immediately: we are talking about 400 temporary stables and about 150 temporary accommodations immediately. They are working the Lazio Region for the stables and the Umbria Region for temporary accommodation; I add, with an important note, that we have already paid for 29,000 agricultural enterprises of those territories (essentially, all the agricultural enterprises of the Provinces involved) 65 million euros of agricultural contributions, all in a single solution to answer the need for financial support that can help them immediately. I realize that these interventions will not be enough, that we must move forward. We are in constant contact and I can assure you that the Government is and wants to do its part, in agreement with Parliament, as has been mentioned several times. With regard to the specific issue of precision agriculture, I would like to recall some of the reflection made just now and apologise for it, adding, with regard to the technical solutions requested by Senator Pignedoli, that the Industry 4.0 Plan contains very precise annexes and technical data sheets, which largely respond to the theme of a direct connection to the agricultural sector. GPS have been mentioned as technological solutions for the sector: well, there is a precise case study of instruments that are included in the technical data sheets of the Industry 4.0 Plan and therefore can take advantage of the tool of super depreciation. I would not exclude an extension of these technologies, through an amendment phase, which we can develop together, while strengthening this Plan, because I believe that this is the real lever we have to intensify our work and reach the target of 10% of surface area. I would add that we are in the process of defining and closing the INAIL ban on the safety and innovation of agricultural mechanics, which addresses a series of issues that Senator Dalla Tor asked me in his question: for example, the question of the implementation of technologies, particularly related to handling and machinery, can be supported within that ban. That of INAIL on safety in agriculture, in relation to technological innovation, is a ban that has not been seen for some time and therefore it is an opportunity. As far as Human Technopole is concerned, it is constituted as an autonomous entity in the proposed budget law that the Government has submitted to Parliament. It is a foundation, whose members are the Ministry of Economics and Finance and the Ministry of Education, University and Research, which I confirm represents a great opportunity to develop research and innovation in life sciences. This foundation has a right connection with research in the agricultural and agri-food fields, because much of this work can certainly be developed also on the innovation and science related to food and I certainly do not have to explain it to our country. Frankly, I do not have the concerns represented by Senator Fattori regarding the mix between public and private, which I do not see, except in the interaction of a large public research project (which advances for the first time in years) on innovative tools with private experiences, in a fair collaboration that can be developed and hopefully develops in a strong way. I don't see anything wrong with it: the fundamental cornerstones of the research project are firmly in public hands (and we would miss something else) and we are trying to do exactly what many other countries do in the world and for a long time. I therefore believe that we should consider, instead, as a great opportunity this possibility, of course with all the measures, improvements and improvements that a great project like this needs, even step by step, phase by phase. We are still in the phase of implementation, of the beginning of this work and it is of these hours the news of a substantial public financing of the Government on the project of the university campus of the State University of Milan that will integrate the project of Human technopole, that I believe detect exactly the furrow within which we insert all this strategic work. The Council for Agricultural Research and Analysis of the Agricultural Economy (CREA) is a key part of this research platform and operates with fully public research tools, resources and personnel, being a 100% institution held by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policies. After that, I hope that all these subjects will develop a positive, effective and virtuous interaction with everything outside the public space, independently, with great professionalism, as is always done when trying to carry out an effective work of progress, that manages to transfer the research that is done in the public field to the private experience. We will be able to evaluate the work only when the first part of this laborious design effort is defined as accomplished and the first steps of Human Technopole will begin. I come back to say, and I close, that I think we are faced with an opportunity, the opportunity to try to make our country, in particular the Italian agricultural model, make a significant leap of quality on the side of technologies and innovation. We have some good experiences that in recent years have practiced innovation, without waiting for the state; we must accompany and expand the tools available to many agricultural enterprises and I believe that precision agriculture, the Industry Plan 4.0 and the national plan for agricultural agro-food research constitute a set of interventions that our country has long been waiting for. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u78	PIGNEDOLI (PD). Minister, as far as the areas affected by the earthquake are concerned, we are following your work directly with the regions and we appreciate it. Returning to the topic of question time, I express satisfaction with the objectives and the path that you have indicated to us. We are aware that choosing to invest in precision agriculture, in fact, we choose a new concept and a new approach for agriculture: more technologies, less chemistry, more efficiency, more value to distinctiveness, more safety at work. I believe that the change is so strong that the only way to seize this opportunity, as you said, Minister, is precisely to coordinate, involve, keep together research and enterprise, state and regions, therefore the different levels, and I too believe that collaboration with the most innovative private experiences is necessary, so that they can act as a driving force for the whole system.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u81	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am appalled at how satisfied we can be these days, given the way agriculture is doing. Frankly I did not expect that in a few minutes we could talk about precision agriculture, but digression by digression - which I believe is the leitmotiv that prevails in these meetings - I must say, speaking also of precision agriculture, that there are elements, Minister, that must be addressed seriously. I am surprised at that law just passed by this Parliament, by the Italian Parliament: it says no to GMOs and then it allows the free movement of products within our country uncontrolledly and deliberately. Let us begin to work on these issues seriously, without these discrepancies. I repeat, digression by digression, because I would say that today nothing concrete has been said about precision agriculture. I find myself dissatisfied, but I am confident, Minister, that in future it will give concrete answers to our agriculture.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u84	FACTORS (M5S). Minister, I didn't ask you if you were satisfied with the Human Technopole project, which I too am very pleased with. I asked her if you have taken steps to prevent the monopoly of the great giant Bayer Monsanto. You told me that you are not concerned and I am even more concerned because I understand that you are not really doing any kind of structuring to prevent all this research from falling into the private sector, while I assure you that from the cognitive investigation that we are conducting in the Senate emerges this risk. I would be delighted if you wanted to analyse the resolution that we are presenting in depth, precisely to prevent the money put in public research from producing results that, within a public and private partnership, end up not being transferred to the private sector in some way, but taken into the loop of the intellectual property of large multinationals, which can also take possession of what is achieved by public research. It is therefore not a matter of worrying, but of putting a few stakes in order for the private public partnership to guarantee the democracy of food, the democracy of research and the democracy of this country. I therefore invite you, when the time comes and before implementing a research programme whose results may end up in Bayer Monsanto's cauldron, to analyse with great care and with real openness the work we are doing, in a completely cross-cutting way, in the Committee on Agriculture at the Senate and to treasure it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u87	WRITER IN TOR (AP) (NCD-UDC). Mr Minister, first of all, I am satisfied with the attention and commitment that the Government places on the earthquake front for the part that belongs to it, the agricultural part. As for precision agriculture, we are starting from a revolution that has begun and will have significant developments in the coming years and I believe that the real challenge is to create conditions as well as improve the quality of products for consumers, can benefit our agriculture and gain to our producers. In this respect, interventions such as super-depreciation have been mentioned, and I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment and attention. I believe there will be the same commitment on the part of Parliament to examine these issues quickly, on which time is important and not wasting time is essential.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u90	GAMBARO (AL-A). Madam President, I agree with the words of my colleague. Although they are at an early stage, I welcome the investments that the Minister mentioned, such as super depreciation, being the new technologies so important, as we have seen and as colleagues have also said.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u93	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Minister, the commitment is concrete and there is no doubt about it; we want to see the facts as well, and there is a lot of expectation on this side. I am convinced that the example can come from the very small things. As was the case, in that case with a request made in the Commission in September, when there was the hearing of the AGEA summits for the payment of quotas and contributions in agriculture (and we know that this has been done), I would also ask you to directly monitor the action on the fast allocation of temporary structures to farmers, alongside farms. It is not a question of reconstructing countries, but of giving continuity to a supply chain. You can rebuild the countries affected by the earthquake, you can rebuild Norcia, but if there is no one in those houses living and farming, we will have done something that does not have a future generation. This is an important action that is necessary, because keeping agriculture in those territories means still guaranteeing the next generation that extraordinary heritage we have inherited.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u96	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr. Minister, I am frankly satisfied. Contrary to what my colleagues in the majority have said, who have expressed dissatisfaction, I believe that you have expressed a vision in agriculture, especially about the new goals. If I have to criticize you, it is to reassure us on the distribution of resources, on the real connection between power centres and research centres available to agriculture and on the need to take the utmost account of all Italian research centres in this sector, without reserving any privileges to anyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u97	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Martina for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u98	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-715.ana.u99	The Senate will meet again on Tuesday 8 November 2016 in two public sessions, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.00 p.m.
