ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 17 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u6	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, during today's afternoon sitting, consideration is planned for the measure concerning civil unions. As you know, we have not had the opportunity to examine it in the Commission, but we know that the Government, both in the Commission and in this House, has always returned to this House and has never taken a position. There is also something new - but that is not what I want to talk about - that is to say a supposed imposition of the question of trust. Instead, what I would like from the Government and the President of the Senate is the acquisition of the memory that the Attorney of the State presented to the Constitutional Court in February last year, in which the Italian Government makes a series of considerations and concludes saying that, however, even if the stepchild adoption was removed, this instrument the Government already considers it in force in our country. The Court today discusses this act of the Presidency of the Council. The daily newspaper "La Repubblica" published full excerpts of this memory a few days ago, with great evidence. Yesterday I asked the Commission and the government reserved the right to produce it to the senators. We are in the embarrassing situation that the newspapers know the position of the Government, the Constitutional Court has the memory deposited, but the Senate and the senators are not aware of the considerations of the Presidency of the Council that concern exactly the subject on which we in the evening will have to start the discussion. I therefore ask the Presidency to be kind enough to have the Government hand over a copy of this memoir. Informally, the President of the Commission said yesterday that it would be a confidential act. I do not know any confidential acts of the government of this importance that go to the Constitutional Court, which are known in the newspapers but of which the Senate, the senators and Parliament are not aware, at the time when the Government had officially returned to the Chamber. Mr President, I therefore ask you to acquire and be able to read this act.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u7	Senator Giovanardi, we'll look into this. I remind everyone that this morning we are going to deal with the so-called thousand-pronged decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u10	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will only take you a minute, and I would like to point out to all my colleagues that my speech is free from any political controversy. Colleagues, in the last two weeks this House, but also that of the House of Deputies, has been strongly urged, indeed triggered by one of our colleagues, about the amount of work done by Members. Mr President, this is a time when we will probably see the issue of trust twice in 24 hours. I do not go into the matter of why, what, political data rather than the need for simplification, but I think it is appropriate that the House should, in its best form (or rather through the Presidency), communicate reality to the citizens. This week we will end up with two assumptions of trust issues and work in Parliament in this way I think it is difficult for an important and esteemed colleague like President Napolitano, who knows these things well and who for a few years has also agreed to requests that could be sent back to those who made them. With regard to the quantity of issues of trust and the urgent decree, I believe that some institutional communication should be done by the Presidency. I think very much of all my colleagues in this House and I know that they are committed to the Commissions and to this House, but this week I would like the Presidency to explain why this House could probably be empty at some time. There will be two assumptions of trust issues, and we will spend another time as idlers: I'm sorry, but I'm not in it anymore. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Bignami and Bruni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u11	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2237, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u12	Mr President, in the preliminary ruling on constitutionality, we have given ample explanation of the reasons why we thought that this last edition of the Multiprorogation Decree-Law had gone far beyond the possibilities of justifying its existence, in the light of our Constitution, and understood a whole series of forecasts that are not proper to a thousandprorogations. In general discussion I will limit myself to a few examples, but before that, I will say that, once again, the Senate is expropriated of its amending power by a late approval of the provision to the House, by a transmission to the Senate in time such that it has not allowed either the majority or the opposition to intervene to modify it. This is a practice of de facto monocameralism which we have repeatedly censored and which we consider absolutely damaging to the powers and rights of Members of Parliament to be able to intervene on the proposals for amending the draft laws. Not at all all all institutions for the external detection of parliamentary activity (beyond what Senator Volpi has told us and on this we could open a debate examining the correctness of his observations and deepening other aspects that are not acceptable with regard to the comments on our parliamentary activity) indicate how by now the amending possibility of the Chambers is reduced to a very small percentage that does not exceed 5% in the House and 1.3% in the Senate. This says a lot about the government's approach to interlocating with this House and will of course be confirmed in the next few hours by the imposition of the question of confidence on this measure and - I imagine for what we learn from the press - also on the provision of so-called civil unions. First of all, I wanted to thank Deputy Minister Morando for the way he followed, as always, this measure and for how he accepted many of our initiatives in the form of agendas, because by now we are forced to be satisfied with the approval of some agendas (knowing the seriousness of our interlocutor, however, I do not doubt that these agendas will have a follow-up of attention from the Government). As far as the content of the measure is concerned, we must note a very strong discrepancy between the title and many of the forecasts contained therein. Of these forecasts many have been introduced on the layout of the original text of the Government in the Chamber of Deputies by a majority evidently requested by the various Dicasteries. I cannot fail to note a whole series of extensions which are not such, but are reopening of terms. We know very well that the decree-law has its effectiveness from the moment the Government approves it, but that, in the course of conversion, the effectiveness cannot be traced back to the same moment when the Government approves the decree-law, but starts from the entry into force of the bill of conversion. I will give a few examples quickly and put them back to the evaluation of Deputy Minister Morando. In Article 2-bis it is clear that there is an unacceptable reopening of terms. We are talking about reorganization of the administration of justice. The same applies to Article 2-c; even in Article 2-c, the word ""2013" is replaced by the word "2016": if this is not a reopening of terms, what is it? It is certainly not an extension of time limits. In Article 4, paragraph 1-a sees the same situation: of course with different dates, but in any case with already expired deadlines. The same applies in the same Article 4 to paragraph 2-a. As you can see, the term "a" indicates that these are additional amendments to the Government's text, as we all know. Even in article 4-a we have a replacement of the words: "for the years 2012, 2013 and 2014", with the following: "from the year 2012 to the year 2017". We are talking about the extension of the deadlines for the request for assistance from the failing agencies, therefore, a resounding reopening of terms of more than three years. Then we come to article 4-b, also this introduced by the Chamber which, evidently, reopens the terms of measures that had already expired, and then to article 5 where, in paragraph 1-a, letter b), the same thing is repeated. And so we go on for many other examples that point to us as the approximation of legislation that is carried out by the combined arrangement of some initiatives of the majority (a little, for the truth) and of many initiatives of various Dicasteries then converge in these that we call, unfortunately, legislative vehicles, that in the end contain everything and more, but nothing they contain coherent with themselves and especially with our Constitution and with our legislation. I could mention again in Article 7, paragraph 2 (b-bis) and paragraph 4-a). Then we have some extraordinary "cheeses." We even intervene on the law of stability just approved, in order to increase, in paragraph 9-b of the same article 7, of thirty days the duration of the commissioner appointed pursuant to article 1, paragraph 867, of the law of 28 December 2015 n. 208 (so the last law of stability). They misjudged: it was not enough for 90 days, and the Commissioner was extended for a further 30 days. It really seems paradoxical to me, not to say ridiculous, to include these forecasts in a law and to have them approved by an unwitting Assembly of what it approves. Because I am sure that all Members do not know what we are approving and what they will approve of following the imposition of the question of confidence on the maxi amendment concerning this measure. I say this to Deputy Minister Morando, who I know did not follow the proceedings in the House; if he had followed them, most likely some points would not have been accepted as changes to the original text. In Article 8 we find a masterpiece that concerns the accounting law. The letter b-bis) states that, however, beyond everything, we must give more money to the current concessionaire of SISTRI, also for the year 2015, with a clear and clear violation of every standard of accounting, even the most elementary that we can know and possibly also comment. However, those amounts, which are additional (it was necessary to add this specification as well), should also be granted for the year 2015, even if 2015 now has its own budgetary regulation deriving from the rules over time approved and above all from the fundamental law of the budget. We then have interpretative rules, such as those introduced in paragraphs 2-b and 2-c of Article 10. In short, we have a congery of interventions that respond to everything except the need to extend certain deadlines, of course within the time allowed by the law, which may be useful: or to the public administration which, if it requires an extension of the time limits means that it has failed, in the time required by the original laws, to carry out its work; or even for some opportunities for citizens who should be able to take advantage of some forecasts for another year. But that is the object of the milleproroghe so that, no matter how much the word "mille" can arouse the temptation to insert anything, always of extensions must be dealt with and not already of reopening of terms or new payments accounting. In short, the measure cannot include rules which have nothing to do with the actual extensions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u13	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 2001 the bill has been adopted, so I would say that, in alternate parts, many political forces have supported the pros and cons of this measure. Today, however, we must acknowledge that in recent years the Government has carried out an action which, gradually but surely, has attacked the original causes of the deformations inherent in the decree-milleproroghe law, as it has begun significantly to reorganize the subjects and, therefore, to give a more precise form to what is touched not only by the thousandproroghe, but also by other measures, especially from the law of stability. The government is doing an important job of reducing the implementing decrees. The extensions are often linked to the lack of implementing instruments of laws that have been enacted and I believe that the Government's commitment to this is in the eyes of everyone. An important commitment is also the reform of the public administration, which represents one of the original elements that often leads us to deal with with with the decree-law thousandprorogates of the topics as they are linked to organizational aspects and rationalization that require to be resolved using, precisely, the instrument of the extension. Moreover, there is also the theme of the simplification of the institutional framework, because in our country the implementation of the laws passes through a concerted action that involves the State, but also the Regions. Therefore, the different times with which each Region exercises its own competences involve the need to intervene by operating a kind of maintenance and verification of the state of implementation of certain laws. In response to an assessment made by Senator Uras, I do not believe that in recent years the decree-law is proceeding in the direction of the increase of interventions, which - if anything - are falling. I recovered the data according to which the decree-milleproroghe law adopted in 2015 contained 80 interventions proposed by the Government, to which 80 were added within the parliamentary path. This year the measure initially contained 45, which during the parliamentary journey (which today takes place according to a scheme of alternating monocameralism), were added 60 more. The work carried out in recent years has therefore led to a reduction in the use of this instrument, contravening its misuse that saw the measure loaded with various themes. The decree-law under consideration gives concrete and strong answers to important issues. The phase of profound modification of the structures that we have impressed on the public administration finds concrete answers today. I am thinking, for example, of the implementation of Law No. 56 of 7 April 2014 (so-called Delrio law), in relation to which we are speaking today on issues concerning the employees of the Provinces. There are also measures that take account of various emergency situations: I am thinking of the security sector, both for a general but necessary strengthening of the police forces, and for the specific fight against terrorism. Action is also planned to deal with disaster-related environmental emergency issues. As far as labour policies are concerned, on the subject of reordering, this is an important issue: companies are raised by the contribution of dismissal in the exchange of contracts. This is a very important issue, because this is the case in public service procurement but also in participating companies. A case that we are living directly in my territory is related to the obligation, in the case of social contracts, to rehire by the winner of the contract of the employees who have been fired by the previous manager and therefore the latter is relieved by the contribution of dismissal. This is money that, through this decree, we have added to the pre-existing appropriation that is around 38 million. Then there are rules in support of public investment related to procurement, custody procedures and greater effectiveness for public authorities to take action on an absolutely important and indisputable issue such as school building. I hope that this thousand-pronged decree-law will record the last episode on the topic of SISTRI because it is a story that we have dealt with in many passages. We know, however, that a traceability system will have to be set up, so today it basically runs out of management and thought that they had found a tool from the past to give this solution. Anyway, we're definitely gonna have to find another system. Finally, the last point that I briefly touch on and on which I am speaking, but I do not hold back, is the question of the transparency of party budgets. I think party budgets aren't a secret recipe like Coca Cola's. You need to know how money is spent and this is an important fact. Not all the political forces represented in this assembly today are in place, from this point of view. We have laid down strict rules on this issue because sometimes we would also like to know how to manage a party or a political movement with a budget of zero. Unfortunately, the laws and norms we have in our country, from a logical point of view, say that this is not possible. So if there really is a way to do that, we all want to learn it. Otherwise we have to present the budgets. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u15	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u16	I greet students and professors of the Liceo Scientifico "Talete" in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u17	Mr President, in the course of the debate I heard things which, if I may say so, are "little talkers" and very "trite and grievances" starting from the fact that this is an abusive government. Now, I believe that the dialectic should avoid reasoning that offends the deep knowledge that parliamentarians have of our Constitution and therefore of what is an incontrovertible rule of our parliamentary democracy which, as such, is a democracy that the elected government has at the time when it receives confidence from Parliament. Which is exactly what has happened for all governments, including what is currently in office. A second consideration - but on this I believe that will come back in more depth and with more competence the deputy minister Morando - is the one that concerns the thousandprorogues as a demonstration of a failed economic policy. I believe that from this point of view every comment is useless, in the sense that, if you want to deny the objective difficulty of the economic situation and you want to deny from which point we started and what are the results that are coming forward, you can do it. But I believe that this is a rhetorical exercise, which can only satisfy the opposition's need for opposition, i.e. a preliminary opposition which, with respect to the responsibility to contribute, as a whole, as political forces present in Parliament, to the construction of the choices that are in the interest of the country, I really think comments alone. Then, in the discussion, the theme of milleproroghe and the function of milleproroghe emerged. Now it is clear that the milleproroghe is a mechanism that marks the difficulty of a system that fails to be punctual and precise in the fulfillment of the obligations that are imposed by the law; but the milleproroghe is also an incentive to overcome this condition and I believe that, from this point of view, the Renzi Government has given very positive signals, for example through the approval of the reform of the public administration. Of course, these are processes that cannot be considered immediate or miracleistic; it is not enough to approve a law or the approval of legislative decrees to change customs and methods and to give immediate efficiency to a system. So, how to oppose and with what logic to oppose the milleproroghe? Simply to oppose the opposition? In fact, I would like to understand what solution could be given to the different problems faced in the thousand-pronge. Was it better that the recruitment possibilities of the staff that are foreseen in the milleproroga should be abandoned? Was it better that there were not those measures concerning the possibility of hiring with the recovery of funds of the past years? Was it better not to extend the contracts of researchers on a fixed-term basis? Was it better not to extend the terms of the permanent contracts of the Provinces and the Metropolitan Cities, thus leaving unfinished the process of defining the absorption of personnel? And in terms of labour policies, for example, was it better not to extend the exemption from the payment of the dismissal fee in the event of a change of contract, when new recruitment takes place in compliance with social clauses? Was it better that solidarity contracts should not be extended and that a 10% increase in their compensation should not be extended or planned? Was it better that there was no possibility of a reduction in working time in the private sector, with a shift from full time to part time and a figurative pension cover for lost pay shares? In the area of justice, then, was it better that there should not be an extension of the period within which the Minister of Justice approves the continued operation of the offices of the judges of peace? We all know how delicate this problem is and how difficult it is for local authorities to maintain these offices in the face of the need to deal with their own costs, but we also know how important it is for these offices to be able to continue their activities. Do we think it was unfair to maintain the operation of the Gran Sasso school? Do we think it was not important to extend the activities of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of the training programme for installers of renewable energy plants? I could continue: do we think, for example, that it was not right to extend the deadline for the Council Presidency to request from the competent judicial authority that the directors of the Security Information Department or other expressly delegated personnel be allowed to speak with interned prisoners, in order to acquire information for the prevention of crimes with international terrorist purposes or that, in order to ascertain the repression of serious social alarm and terrorism offences, the derogation from the ordinary method of data retention should not be extended by six months? Do we think that there should be no extension of the time limits for the remuneration of the drug supply chain, by shifting the time limits for setting the fees for the remuneration of outpatient and prosthetic care services relating to tailor-made devices, as well as hospital care? Do we think it was not fair to extend the premium quotas for the virtuous regions? Moreover, in terms of measures relating to infrastructure and transport, do we really believe that it was better that the possibility of paying an advance of 20%, rather than 10%, of the basis of the award price in contracts relating to works should not be extended until 31 July 2016? Do we think that it was not right to extend to 31 July 2016 the period from which the rules on the qualification of the general contractor apply, with regard to the demonstration of the fulfilment of the requirements of adequate technical and organisational fitness? Do we have the awareness, for example, of what are the operational and concrete problems that are avoided in this way in order to allow the realization of public works? Do we think it was wrong to extend the deadline for school building resources? Should we avoid extending the deadline for payment and collection operations relating to the year 2015 and previous year's agricultural policy? Do we think that the extensions in the area of emergency interventions were not appropriate in relation to a situation which has not yet been defined and to the concrete needs of territories affected by these emergencies? This list could still continue, however, having said that, I believe that there is another political fact that emerged from the debate: a no preliminary and uncritical, a no that has not been able to carry within itself that constructive criticism which, for example, could have led to a statement whether an extension was appropriate or not. I believe that this is the comparison of merit which, even on a thousandprorogations, even on a decree-law of this nature, should have characterized the debate between Members of Parliament. As I conclude, I would like to make two points. Firstly, I would like to take up the subject of the relationship with the House of Deputies and, therefore, I would also like to add my voice, recommending to the President of the Senate - bearing in mind the difficulty of the subject - to try again to ensure that both branches of Parliament can properly assess and take decisions regarding the decrees-laws, in a balanced distribution of time, which is theoretically provided for in the agreements but which is not respected. The second point concerns a thank you which I would like to address to the Presidents and Members of the Commission, because the work that has been done there has been of institutional courtesy: everyone has taken on the issue of the impossibility of amending the decree-law, for the very short time, and there has been a comparison that has aimed to resolve also the time of the debate in the Commission, so as to facilitate the possibility to come to the Chamber and to have a sharing, even in the difference of positions, on the issues brought with the amendments through the transformation of the same agenda. I also want, of course, to thank the technical apparatus of the two Commissions, because even in this condition, in these limited times, he has demonstrated all his professionalism. I would also like to add my thanks to the technical apparatus of the Senate Presidency. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u18	As the rapporteur, Senator Lucherini, has given up his speech, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u19	Mr President, in my opinion, the many senators who pointed this out during this debate are right: the very existence of a law which is conventionally called'milleproroghe' indicates a serious difficulty in our political-constitutional system. It is true what Senator Collina said just now: it can be shown, numbers in hand, that the number of extensions contained in this measure has been reduced compared to the past; however, the fact remains that it is a measure of great complexity, which contains a large amount of extensions or - and the Senator D'Alì is right - the reopening of terms renamed, more or less properly, extensions. If we do not want to completely miss this opportunity of confrontation between us, I think we must start with a statement, which has already been made in the course of the debate by the rapporteurs and by some senators, in particular by the majority. The re-proposing of this which I call difficulties of the Italian political-administrative system over time, whatever the political color of the government in office at that time, points out, in my opinion, that this is a difficulty that cannot be resolved through the alternation of different political formations at the head of the country. This is - we must know - something that has to do with a structural problem of our political and administrative system. Now, in my humble opinion, the fundamental factors that determine this difficulty are three in summary. The first factor is determined by the too deep separation - sometimes you have the impression that it is a real abyss - that separates the activity of the legislator from the activity of the administration: two segments of the political-administrative system that often seem to be inspired by drawings, not only generically not convergent, but in some cases even openly divergent. Here is the first, in my opinion, very important factor of difficulty. The second factor relates specifically to administrative activity and is due to the difficulty of fully applying the principle of responsibility in administrative activity. From this lack or lack of application or still uncertain application of the principle of responsibility in the public administration arises an equally strong, I would even say, in many respects, seemingly insurmountable difficulty in carrying out a systematic evaluation of the results obtained by the administration, thanks in particular to the activity of the public management, in relation to the objectives assigned to it. This second factor further complicates the third cause of the difficulty in which we debate, difficulties - I repeat - which assumes the profile of a structural lack of our political and administrative system. The third factor is, in my opinion, the tendency of political-legislative power (in this case, therefore, I am talking specifically about political-legislative power) to overestimate the role of legislative innovation and to underestimate very seriously the element of the concrete verification of the implementation of legislative innovation itself. Therefore, if these three fundamental factors are really to be removed and dealt with in order to overcome this difficulty, if we are to arrive in the future, as Senator Uras said yesterday, to no longer do a thousandprorogations (this seems to me to be a bit of a maximalistic objective, but we could say that we have legal measures called "prorogation of the terms" much more limited in the number of extensions and much more punctual in respecting the principle that we must treat, in order to be included in those measures, of actual extensions), then we must devote ourselves to the removal of these three fundamental sources of the necessity of the extension and here we have two very important opportunities to do so. The first occasion is determined by the fact - it has already been mentioned - that we are in the process of issuing delegated legislative decrees for the reform of the public administration; to address the issues we have talked about in these hours is an occasion of extraordinary importance. Responsibility, evaluation, rewards and penalties: if every segment of the public administration, when issuing delegated legislative decrees, will be restructured around these four pillars, then the structural need to provide for extensions at the end of the calendar year will be reduced in a very significant way (even if it may be said that it will not disappear). The second key opportunity is the final approval and then the implementation of the constitutional reform. In fact, with regard to the issue of overestimating legislative innovation, to the detriment of the verification of results, constitutional reform assigns to the Senate - very appropriately, in my humble opinion - among other functions, also the specific one of devoting oneself to the evaluation of public policies. This is an activity that the legislative system and the Italian Parliament carry out in a very sporadic way, entrusting it to the power of inspection union, which is exercised mainly through questions and other inspection tools, and which seems to me to be very far from achieving acceptable results. This often prompts the Government to accentuate its shortcomings rather than to resolve them, as it does not fear the systematic parliamentary solicitation for the implementation, within the prescribed time, of the rules subject to legislative innovation. It is true that, if the current Government wanted to conduct a sterile controversy on the point raised, in particular, by the opposition in this debate, and wanted to remain within its sphere, it might point out that, when it was formed, the administrative acts provided for by the legislation in force and not yet implemented were more numerous than at present. So, if it were simply about disposing of the backward - I don't know if you can use that expression, in this field - then you could say that the performance of the government is actually slightly better than those of the governments that preceded it. I believe, however, that this is a way of becoming involved, in propaganda that is too easy - among other things poorly done and, therefore, tending to be ineffective - the debate that we have held, ignoring the structural factors that are at the basis of the continuous recourse of governments, whatever their political color, to measures similar to the one we are discussing, if not identical. Finally, I would like to make one comment on the substance of the issues raised in this debate. I would just like to reply precisely to the question put by the Senator-Council, who has literally asked whether we will extend the safeguard clauses as well. That is the question that has been asked. And I would like to reassure not so much the Senator Council, of course, who asked this question for reasons of political controversy, but the Senate and more generally the public opinion that follows us, asserting that the answer to that question, with regard to the government's orientation, is very precise and is the following: no, we will neutralize all the safeguard clauses provided for in the years 2017, 2018, 2019 and following. In other words, there will be no increase in VAT and excise duty, provided for in the safeguard clauses, for 15.5 billion euros in the case of 2017. We believe we have the right to some recognition of credibility when we make this commitment, which concerns the future, for a trivial reason, which relates to past experience: at the time of the formation of the Renzi Government, in fact, we made the commitment to neutralize the safeguard clauses that the current legislation provided for in 2015, with increases in VAT and excise duties. You will acknowledge that the safeguard clauses for 2015 have been neutralized. Then there were the safeguard clauses provided, for an entity - as you know - particularly significant (big way an internal product point to them), for 2016. We have committed ourselves to fully neutralizing them, and we have done so with the law of stability and budgetary discipline. If this is true, and it is indisputable, we believe we are entitled to some credit when we say that we will completely neutralize the safeguard clauses for 2017 through interventions that will combine actions to reduce tax evasion, in particular that of VAT, with interventions to reduce selective public expenditure and not determined through linear cutting mechanisms, so as not to determine the increase of VAT foreseen in current legislation for 2017 and subsequent years. We will try to implement this intervention for 2017 mainly through structural measures, in such a way that the reduction of the safeguard clauses that we will implement for 2017 also has force in relation to the safeguard clauses of 2018 and 2019. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u20	He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2237, converting Decree-Law No 210, 30 December 2015, into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u22	The Presidency notes that the question of trust has been put on the approval of the single article of bill No 2237 of conversion of the decree-law of 30 December 2015, n. 210, in the text identical to that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders, which has just been convened, in order to organise the relevant debate. (The sitting was suspended at 10.28 a.m. and resumed at 10.52 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u23	The Conference of the Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law extends terms, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the discussion on confidence, two hours and thirty minutes were allocated, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups, without prejudice to the time for explanations of vote. The sitting will be suspended between 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. to allow the work of the Commission on matters compatible with the debate on trust. It has been established that the call will start at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u26	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on what is happening. There was all the urgency and the desire to approve not so much the milleproroghe, but the provision that immediately followed, that is, the bill on civil unions and couples of fact, that once again we witness a obstructionism of the majority. As far as I'm concerned, I would do obstruction until the next two or three legislatures. However, I must acknowledge and denounce the obstructionism of the majority. I would like to remind everyone that the first time the measure was requested to be scheduled in the Chamber was on 13 October 2015. After that the next day, on 14 October, President Palma came to tell us what was happening in the Commission: in October it seemed that the world would explode and there would have been its end if we had not immediately addressed the issue of civil unions. The measure was then sent to the banks of the various calendars and until January it was no longer discussed. A major and in-depth general discussion was held and then, every time we got to the point of wanting and having to deal with the amendments, something happened: last Tuesday, Senator De Petris asked for a postponement of 24 hours; the next day, President Zanda asked for the convening of the Conference of Leaders in order to establish a postponement of not forty-eight hours, because in fact it resulted in a postponement of more than a week. At this point I wonder what game we're playing. On Sunday we saw a PD assembly in which the President-in-Office of the Council argued that the ideal solution would be to put the question of trust on the text that should reconstitute the majority of government. But if anyone thought to put their trust on Sunday, I would like to know, Undersecretary Pizzetti, when the Council of Ministers for Authorisation was held, since the last one was held on Friday and there was no notice of authorization to apply the matter of trust. There have been no other Councils of Ministers, and then, presumably, this evening Minister Boschi will come to do what is best for her, that is, to ask for confidence. However, if all this time has passed, is it possible that no one has written the maxi amendment? Some have argued that the debate was first on Article 5, but then it has been remembered that Article 3 also refers to the issue of adoptions, so it is not known whether to consider only Article 5, or better also Article 3, because those in the People's Area have noticed late that it also dealt with adoptions and, therefore, now we have to put it in black and white. I am convinced that the maxi amendment has already been written and that the time required is necessary not to write it but to reach political agreements. But at what level are such agreements? In the last few hours he is still negotiating on those who are rights not of couples, but of children. It seems to me to be a squalid matter, as a squalid matter, I think the reasons for requesting a postponement appear to me: Minister Boschi at 3 p.m. is committed to the House of Deputies for the question time - his goodness - but they even put it to us at 6 p.m. and, therefore, I wonder what the reference to 3 p.m. has to do with it. Another reason for the postponement is that there are the Commissions. Too bad the Commissions were defaced just because there should have been a full-time session today. At this point I ask the friends of the New Right Centre to remember another piece, namely the one related to survivors' pensions. Firstly, if there are survivors' pensions for the benefit of partners in civil unions, we will not only discriminate against heterosexual couples who will not have them, but we will do another damage operation. From the moment, in fact, that the covers included in this measure in order to guarantee the pensions of survivors are ridiculous, if we must respect Article 81 of the Constitution and, therefore, ensure that the text comes out in balance of the budget, the money to pay the pensions of the 7,000 people who make up the couples in fact will come from the other pensioners, i.e. from those to whom today the survivor's pension is called into question, the real one, the one for which they have worked and contributed. [[Applause from the LN-Aute Group of Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u29	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for holding an informal group leader yesterday and letting all the Group leaders know that the seven amendments which are premissive to the Cirinna bill are inadmissible. And so I go back to what the 5 Star Movement has said from the start, namely that those amendments could not be voted on, that there will be about 500 amendments left and that the secret votes will be 5 or 6. I say this in order to relate to what has been said, on the other hand, today at the Conference of the Leaders, that is to say, to the suspension of the sitting of the Assembly until 4 p.m. There has been talk of Commissions meeting, but - as Senator Calderoli said - the Commissions have all been disconcerted. We in the 5 Star Movement do not understand the reason why we must make such a long suspension of the session of the Assembly, except for an instrumental fact and, therefore, to bring back the discussion on the bill on civil unions at other times, in fact changing the calendar, probably because no agreements have been reached on the maxi amendment. I am renewing here, now, the request to convene a Conference of the Leaders, precisely because of the informal meeting held yesterday and precisely because the 5 Star Movement believes that we should no longer postpone, that we should no longer exploit and that the debate in the Assembly should no longer be rescheduleed by means of internal splits within a party or by the majority. We call for a dignified parliamentary debate worthy of an ethical and important issue such as civil unions, which can be held, in the light of the facts and communications that you yourself gave to all of us as Leaders yesterday, in this House, in an absolutely decent, democratic and on a certain date. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u32	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking only so that it remains in the record. It is obvious that this morning we witnessed not an attempt, but a clear self-obstruction by the majority to avoid starting to talk today about civil unions. For the love of God, it has already happened and, therefore, nothing extraordinary about it. I say this now in order not to have to make controversy tomorrow: I hope that tomorrow - all still to be written - it will not happen that, in the difficult mediation that the majority is trying to achieve with regard to the problem of civil unions, that is, essentially, the deletion of Article 5 and - I hope - also the change of paragraph 4 of Article 3, regarding adoptions, the Government and the majority do not feel obliged to do everything. Given and considering that, according to yesterday's statements of the President of the Senate in the informal group, we at least made the path virtuous and imagining, at this point, the fall of all the obstructive attitudes, those already declared by the League and those in nuce for the kangaroo or premissive amendments (it had opened, therefore, the way for a debate, clear, serene, mature in front of the Country on the contents of the bill Cirinna), we would not want, at its conclusion - finally began in a way understandable for the citizens - to find ourselves faced with a maxi amendment on which we immediately put trust. We do not wish, in other words, that, in the face of an opening of the President of the Senate, there would be an immediate and renewed closure of the majority and the Government in relation to the debate we expected to have in this House. That is not the subject we are discussing now, but I would like to make it clear now, because it is right that citizens should also know what is happening. There is nothing wrong with the fact that mediation can be difficult. There is nothing wrong with mediation being a little longer than necessary. It would, however, be dramatic and very serious if the debate on civil unions were to be concluded tomorrow with an act of arrogance on the part of the majority and with a large amendment on which the Government puts its trust. I very much hope that this will not happen. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u35	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, for the five years I have been Minister for relations with Parliament, I have always tried to honour one principle: fair cooperation between the institutions. I would remind you, Mr President, as I did yesterday, with little luck, in the Commission, that we were in the same Commission and then in this House before a government that has always returned to this House with regard to the problem of civil unions. The government is neutral - it has anticipated - but I do not know if, in the next twenty-four hours, it will maintain this position or if it will instead pose a question of trust, making a maxi amendment. I know, however, why we have acquired it, that the Government has already expressed itself by a formal act, presented to the Constitutional Court almost a year ago, on the specific issues of civil unions and adoption. In a remembrance of the Government that we have read about "the Republic" - he published extensive excerpts a few days ago - the Presidency of the Council has already objected - and this is directly part of our debate of the last hours - that, even if the adoption of the stepson was deleted (the famous article 5), the law in force does not defend the hundreds of sentences according to which in Italy it is not possible to adopt the stepson by homosexual couples (man-man, woman-woman), but with a new interpretation it is stated that an interpretation is already in force in the country - which the Government shares - according to which the adoption of the stepson is already admissible in our legal system. When we discussed the measure in the Commission, we had a government that said it was neutral. Today, as indiscretions of the press, we know instead that it has taken a position and this morning the Constitutional Court must decide. Yesterday I asked the Committee on Justice to have access to that act, but President Nico D'Ascola was informally told that it would be confidential. I have never known that a reminder of the State's Attorneyship, presented by the Presidency of the Council to the Constitutional Court, is a confidential act. I told the Undersecretary Pizzetti yesterday, in the Chamber, the problem, which is very simple: journalists have the appeal in hand, while the senators, in the process of discussing this matter, have not been able to read it. In this act the Government has already taken a position, whether or not Article 5 is deleted, with consequences also on the draft law on adoptions that will be presented in the future. Mr President, is it possible to have this act? Or do the senators have to vote in the dark without knowing the government's formal position with respect to the Constitutional Court? What is the ideal relationship between institutions? Is it a hide-and-seek game, so the government says one thing in the House, says one thing in the Commission, and does it do another when it writes to the Constitutional Court? And then - and I agree with my colleague Mr Romani - we have already read this morning a series of pearls about fidelity and the fact that civil union would be nothing if sexual orientations come out from partners other than physiological, normal ones. We have even read in the present text (not in what will be changed) references to the civil code - even grotesque - on the consummation of marriage. There is little to smile about, because it is written in the text Cirinna. These legal obstacles are contained in the text that has arrived in this House without the Commission being able to amend it. Of course everyone laughs when they see pearls of this kind. [[Comments of the Senators Cervellini, Fornaro and Lo Moro]] If the maxi amendment comes in, will we have time to read it? Will we have time to evaluate it and understand what it means? Will we have time to understand what revolutions, even anthropological ones, will lead to the Italian legal order or will be handed over to us and after a minute will trust be placed? I would remind you, Mr President, that 51 senators have already addressed the Court to present a conflict of attribution. It is clear that we are going to present another reminder to the Court that not only has the Commission not been able to examine this text for a minute, but, if trust is placed, the House will not have been able to table and discuss even one amendment: forced force against the whole procedure. Mr President, I would ask you, in the next few hours, to have the memory presented to the Court in order to finally know what position the Italian Government has taken on this sensitive matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u38	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the meeting of the Heads of Group was a little awkward in the search for a waste of time, because it is clear to everyone that there are conflicts and that the square on the maxi amendment has not yet been found. Mr President, even today in the newspapers someone accuses you of not having made known the inadmissibility of the amendments before. It seems, however, that we are continuing to want to delay the communication to this House on inadmissibility over time. Let us say this in order to show that these are presumptuous arguments, not to say the things as they are, namely that Renzi has clearly decided to reappear his majority in government - this is a danger which, unfortunately, we had already feared last week - and this, as is clear to everyone, to the detriment not only of Parliament, but also of the rights of people. This is a very serious vulnus, Mr President, because the House has discussed a great deal. It is clear to everyone today that there are no longer any problems of amendments or anything else, and so it would have been possible to proceed with the work. Let us think about today: at this time we could already have started explanations of vote, voted on the Multi-pronged Decree-Law and started our votes on the next item on the agenda, as was already foreseen in the timetable. I therefore continue to call - and I am no longer making appeals, because they are now in vain, like all those we launched yesterday - to abandon the idea of putting the question of trust. It is clear to everyone, and we continue to be convinced that, despite the great diversity of positions (which we have seen even now), the parliamentary route would have enabled us to have a text - in my opinion - better than what we will then see written in the maxi amendment. In this way, Mr President, everyone would have taken responsibility for what he would have said and how he would have voted. In this way, with the reason of state, as usual everything is clouded and confused. Once again there remains a sad page for this House and Parliament: if Parliament cannot work and produce on such laws without the blackmail of trust, I do not really understand what the prerogatives remain, not only in the Senate, but also in the House of Deputies. It is clear to everyone that the text will also be armored in the House of Deputies, as we must do quickly. I am therefore afraid, because of everything that has happened this week, on one side and on the other. I think it is perhaps the polls that decided how the work should proceed. We are very sorry about this, because the rights and lives of people and even children are at stake. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u39	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that at a particularly delicate time, such as the one we are experiencing, with regard to the draft law on civil unions, it is absolutely not peregrine to make a special appeal to you, Mr President, to ensure that the work is carried out properly, but above all to exercise the prerogatives of those who represent the people in the Senate, seeking to interpret this role with a sense of responsibility, competence, tenacity and humility. I therefore appeal to you, Mr President, and I appeal to the authority which I recognise, in order to strike a balance between altered relations and institutional architecture. Mr President, there is the feeling, which has become almost certain, that Parliament is the government's commissioner and that the government is the government's commissioner by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which in turn is the commissioner of Europe's financial board. We would like Parliament to decline its duties with responsibility and without interference. Mr President, I am convinced that you, even with regard to this draft law, want to restore a level playing field. We are witnessing decrees-laws which are handed over to Parliament's classrooms for a fake debate, given that then the vote of confidence comes and Parliament's activity remains absolutely marginal and handed over to Parliament's Reports of sterile and sometimes, unfortunately, unnecessary speeches. The paradox is that even interventions of parliamentary initiative must be submitted to the maxi amendment of the Government on particularly sensitive issues, such as those we are dealing with, which are related to the sensibilities and ethical values that everyone is also trying to reconsider in the logic of a perspective that puts before our legislative path a final word in the best and most acceptable way. We complain about the Senate, as we have said on several occasions in our speeches in general discussion and in the illustration of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, the role that belongs to it. And since we are convinced that the claim of a right, if it is not accompanied by the assumption of responsibility, represents the idle exercise of a condition, we propose, as a Conservative and Reformist Group, the sense of our responsible activity of support for legislative action in a logic that must not see forms of obstructionism, but must instead foresee concrete collaboration and declined in the difficult mediation in progress. All this on one condition: that there is no interference and blackmail and that the timing of this discussion is not expanded in an instrumental way, and not even strangled within a rigid and strict will imposed by the government. Even less can be agreed if the conclusion is a vote of confidence. Mr President, I am convinced that with common sense, but above all with its authority, it will be able to reconcile these needs, being all of us, I would say even partially satisfied, to date, while taking the step forward with regard to the removal from the text of Article 5. But we also expect to see the text of the Government's amendment to understand whether and how all references to matrimonial codex referring to Article 29 of the Constitution have been expounded from Articles 2 and 3. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u41	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u42	Mr President, we do not enter into any controversy with what my fellow group leaders have just said, because the request to speak on the thousand-pronge at the Conference of the Leaders came from several groups, both in majority and in opposition. We are an opposition group which has requested thirty minutes to intervene, both myself and my colleague, Mr Mazzoni, on a thousand-pronges that we consider quite obsolete. We're critical. Group colleague Langella, who will make the explanation of vote, will announce the opposition of our Group to this way of moving forward, which goes back to 2005. With the elections of 9 and 10 April 2006, it was intended to introduce for the first time (with the Berlusconi Government, which tried to make some reforms, however, we can judge that five years more than positive) the perverse mechanism of the extension. The extension is a form of bureaucratization that aims only to ensure that the many civil servants of the Ministries do not do their duty, turn their thumbs and do not prepare the implementing decrees and practices that, as a rule, any private entrepreneur has the obligation to do and that, if he does not do, he cannot reach the end of the month and pay his employees. These, on the other hand, are taken care of by Pants and, therefore, have started a ride that has gone on for eleven years. If we take the 2005 milleproroghe and compare it with today's one we see that there was a few dozen pages and here a few hundred. There's been an exponential increase. That is why we believe that we must be against the thousand-pronged, precisely because we did not want to deburrocraticize. We are a group that continues to urge and press the government to make reforms. Only through reforms can the country be modernised, development, employment and GDP can be created and, therefore, public debt reduced and Europe can meet its challenge. That is why we believe that one of the reforms that must be made in public administration and ministries is deburocratization. The reforms - we have participated in the constitutional one - as usual can be improved and it is hoped that immediately after the referendum confirmation of what the Chamber of Deputies will prepare to ratify in April, it will begin to deburocraticate Title V and, therefore, to create macro regions, with less spending points and a greater organization of the State in the sense of deburocraticizing it. In the years of the carriers and of the computer, you cannot continue to go in the carriage. It's okay to watch a movie and as a medieval cultural heritage, but it's definitely not possible to ship to the United States or South America. Now on the plane you go in about ten hours and it doesn't take two or three months, as you used to. This is what we want to be able to make the government understand and we believe that we must do so by thinking that a stabilisation, a certainty of the reformative will is necessary, also giving us a certainty of numbers on this point, so that we can give the courage to throw reform beyond the obstacle. That is what our Group wants to do, which it has tried to do: it has done so with constitutional reforms and it will do so also with civil unions. Our speeches, such as the speech by Mr Repetti, Mr Mazzoni and Mr D'Anna in the general debate on civil unions, have well taken our position. It is a long-awaited reform that we are doing not only because Europe and the Constitutional Court are asking us to do it, but because we want to carry forward those who, compared to civil rights, have fallen behind. This is our great philosophy which, among other things, is not mine but by Pietro Nenni, my master of reformism, is a cultural sign, the carnation I carry; that of Loris Fortuna, the sign of who, before me, on civil rights, divorce, abortion, heterologous fertilization, has been able to give much more than me. The fact that we are asking for more courage is important. On the civil unions, together with the colleagues who preceded me, we are of the idea of bringing them back, as similitude, also to the decree-law thousandprorogates. We're a little close to Bertolt Brecht and his famous aphorisms. I do not know if you remember one which, if you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to quote: First of all they came to pick up the gypsies. And I was happy because they were stealing. Then they came to pick up the Jews. And I shut up because I was disliked. Then they came to get the homosexuals, and I was relieved because they were annoying to me. Then they came to take the communists, and I said nothing, because I was not a communist. And now we could add: and then they came to get the stepchild. And we said, what does it matter to me? It's not mine. He was born from another bed. What do we care? And that spent a life of hardship, marginalization, suffering, and then, in the end, I found out that in that bed maybe I had been there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Barani, I remind you that we have not yet passed to the examination of the draft law on civil unions and that we are always in the process of discussing the decree-law extend terms. She's moving forward. Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, you are very aware. I know you Legists are in favour of putting on a gag, but we... [[. (Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u43	What did you say, Senator Barani? Mr Barani (AL-A). I am saying that you cannot speak on the substance of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have an obligation to refer you to the subject under discussion, Senator. Mr Barani (AL-A). If you didn't understand, I'll tell you again, because maybe you were distracted and you missed the point. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't understand who the term gag was referring to. Mr Barani (AL-A). The gag to the talker. I'll spell it for you, Mr. President. . I'm talking about similitude with the thousand-pronged decree-law. If you can understand that similitude is a form...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u44	[[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u45	Senator Barani, don't make me call you back. You're talking about the thousand-pronged decree-law. Then he'll have all the space he wants.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u46	Mr Barani (AL-A). Thank you, Mr President, you are very kind and always very punctual. Can I go on with the sentences of Bertolt Brecht that, by analogy, we can also refer to the decree-milleproroghe law? In fact, when he said that we are afraid and we take it out on a river in full, but that we never take it out on the banks that squeeze it, he meant that with the measure thousandprorogues we cannot tighten the bureaucracy that, like a river in full, continues to increase the volumes. I have already said that, within eleven years, the measure has gone from ten to one hundred pages. This means that the bureaucracy has been severe and strong on the thousand-pronged measure and has led our Group to criticize it and to vote against it not only on the substance of the measure, but also on the issue of trust. The bureaucracy, which is the largest producer of rules, bases much of its power on this stratification. For this reason, a measure such as milleproroghe becomes the celebration and triumph of an ever more intangible and intransigent status quo. This is the paradox of everything that is important in politics. It is necessary for a government to have the political strength to reform and to have certain numbers in order to be able to carry out the necessary and indispensable reforms for our country, because, as I have already said, only with the reforms can progress. That's the drama. It is enough to scroll through the headings of the individual articles of the measure, which, as I have already said, is voluminous and the most copious of recent years. I have analyzed the thousand-pronged measures taken so far since 2005, the year in which it was used for the first time. You will see the trouble of all the ministries, no one excluded, unable to meet the deadlines set at their time. The thousand-pronged measure is in fact necessary because the ministries fail to comply with the deadlines and it is the plastic representation of an administrative disorder that has lasted for too long and to which one can lay hands only by carrying out the necessary reforms. The speech I tried to make was precisely about reforms: it was a political speech to carry forward the daily needs of the country. For this reason we insisted on the need to reach a more cohesive majority as soon as possible, able to grasp the bull by the horns. Our political history shows that we have worked in practice to achieve this objective by establishing a new parliamentary formation when we have been forced to see that in our old house we were moving in the opposite direction. Today, in the light of this debate, we cannot help but have confirmation of how just and necessary that choice was. I spoke of asphyxiating and nagging bureaucracy, which prevents the country from moving forward. We believe that the daily work of all the ministries and of the men and women who work there is necessary, who must think not of the fixed place, but of the work they are called to do. It is important to consider those who roll up their sleeves every day and therefore have to think that they work for citizens who, day after day, in a whole life try to make ends meet and to carry on a family with sacrifices and the difficulty of finding work for their children giving them an adequate response and education. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Gualdani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u47	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we come to the adoption of a measure which is rich in content which is necessary for the country after a quick passage into the Commissions of merit in the Senate. I do not hide them, President, that we would have liked to improve the text also in the Senate but the times for the conversion of the decree-law did not allow us to do so. I would like to go into the substance of the measure: the various provisions are made in continuity with many measures already adopted by the current Government and aim to extend deadlines or deadlines whose importance needs to be postponed over time. I would like to stress that this Government has, however, been very committed and has managed to stabilize a great many measures definitively. The measure addresses, in any case, some issues that are dear to the Group that I represent. I refer to the rule that, with regard to contracts for works entrusted following calls for tender or other custody procedure initiated after the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of Decree-Law No 192 of 2014 and until 31 July 2016, the price for the contractor is raised to 20% of the contractual amount. In addition, the entry into force of the provision on the telematic publication of notices and notices of invitation to tender is extended to 1 January 2017. Moreover, in this measure, the attention given to the subject of school building must not be overlooked, since it is rightly set at 30 April 2016 the deadline within which the bodies receiving the funding provided for by some school building programmes must ensure that all the documentation is transmitted to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. It is also noted that important and fundamental measures are foreseen, often also to the attention of the press, in the matter of fire prevention to be issued within six months of the adoption of the ministerial decree provided for by Decree-Law No 104 of 2013 and, however, no later than 31 December 2016. I would also like to highlight another sector which is constantly expanding and which needs to be valued, namely tourism. In this regard, the deadline for the demarcation of tourist districts is extended to 30 June 2016 in order to relaunch the tourist offer by the Regions. Equally important is the extension until 31 December 2016 of the entry into force of the waste traceability control system (the so-called SISTRI), a very important and rather attentive area. With regard to public administration, the decree-law under consideration provides for the extension to 31 December 2016 of the deadline for the recruitment of permanent staff related to terminations in recent years, obviously in compliance with the constraints provided for by the turnover. There is a need for extensions to the anti-terrorism provisions, which are quite important and respected by the Government, of which I am a majority. In particular, Article 4-b extends for one year (until 31 January 2017) the time limit within which the President of the Council may request the judicial authority that the directors of the Security Information Department be authorised for talks with prisoners and internees, in order to acquire information useful to prevent acts for international terrorist purposes. I would also like to highlight, among others, the extension to 30 June 2016 of the possibility of municipalities using Equitalia for the establishment, liquidation and collection of local taxes. Let's turn to Article 11 of the measure, which extends some provisions of advantage in order to facilitate the restoration of the territories affected by exceptional atmospheric phenomena in recent years; I refer to Regions such as Sardinia, Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto. Paragraph 3 -ter said provisions aimed at ensuring the carrying out of activities of technical and administrative support to the Campania Region for the implementation of the interventions of disposal of waste in storage at the different sites of the Campania Region, dating back to the emerging period 2000-2009. Finally, paragraph 3 -quinquies said provisions aimed at allowing the continuation of the reclamation of polluted sites in the land of fires; it is extended by seven months, until July 31, 2016, the commissioner management for the safety and the reclamation of the bell areas of Giugliano and the lakes of Castelvolturno. From this analysis, Mr President, it is clear that the measure is full of rules that guarantee the survival or resumption of essential sectors of the country. Certainly everything is perfect and a scrutiny of the merit committees in the Senate would allow an even richer and punctual text. However, I believe that this year's milleprorogues are, as far as possible, dryer, less confused and better structured for topics, with more precise extensions and no structural rules. I repeat that this Government has been committed to ensuring that many measures are final and has therefore limited the extension rules to a maximum. We therefore consider it a good starting point, which the People's Area will vote firmly - as my colleague Mr Mancuso will say in his explanation of vote - and which will seek to enrich in an improved way in future measures, which will see the Houses of Parliament address thorny but vital issues, due to the reformist drive of the country, from school to competition. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u48	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u49	Mr President, Senators and Senators, I am not going to dwell on the need for a thousand-pronges and the urgency of its approval. I just remember that it is a measure that in some ways should even be better structured and implemented, preventing rather from having content in other provisions concerning extensions. This would facilitate and simplify the reading of our measures. So, to some extent it is okay that there is a containment of this measure, but in other respects I would even like to implement it, precisely in order to streamline other measures and allow for a better reading by all those who then have to apply the rules. Many things have already been said. However, I would like to focus, precisely as far as my powers are concerned, on the articles concerning public administration and local authorities, making a summary, I believe, quite useful to everyone, in reading this measure. These articles are largely due to the application of Legislative Decree No. 78 of 2015, which we approved last summer. These are extensions that the institutions are waiting for and that allow the successful execution of the planning and drawing up of the forecast budget and the performance of their functions. In some cases they are even extensions of a few months, perfectly calibrated with respect to the better performance of the activities and the deadlines already foreseen in other measures. So they're not just extensions to do, which allow everyone to do what they want, but they're perfectly calibrated extensions. The measure contains a series of extensions concerning staff of the public administration. If we read it in more detail, we see that these relate to important areas of our public administration, in particular the security and defence sector and the National Firefighter Corps, also in relation to the cessations that have occurred in recent years. It is a question of being able to dispose for 2016 of the resources for the assumptions referred to previous years that have not been used in the planned times; therefore, basically, it is a matter of using of the economies made in the past years and that allow, in such an important field, to be able to carry out of the assumptions. In particular, I would also like to mention the reference to the deadline of 30 April 2016 for issuing the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers setting out guidelines for the planning and recruitment of university staff for the period 2016-2018. Here too, we cannot hide the importance of this sector for our administration. However, I would like to pay particular attention to all the speeches on the Provinces. This morning in the bicameral commission for the implementation of fiscal federalism, with the undersecretary Bressa, has taken stock of the progress of the process of transformation of the Provinces contained in the law Delrio. It is a complex process, which has had longer times than those foreseen in the law, but which is still being carried out; bearing in mind that it involves the transfer of 20,000 people put on the move, it is the largest mobility process ever in our public administration, but undersecretary Bressa told us that it is in the process of completion and conclusion. The multipronged measure provides that the Provinces and the metropolitan cities, for proven necessity, may extend the fixed-term employment contracts until 31 December 2016. It is obvious that this forecast concerns an important issue related to the functions that have not yet been fully transferred from the Provinces to the new authorities of the vast area or to the Regions or to the Municipalities, depending on the legislation that the Regions have assumed. However, the measure allows the delivery of the functions that the Provinces are still carrying out, but above all it allows the Provinces that have not complied with the Stability Pact also in 2015 to be able to proceed with the extension of purchases and fixed-term employment contracts. Here too it is an important provision, because the Provinces of the Regions which have proceeded very late to the definition of the functions obviously had to continue to provide the services. The text also covers the elections of the Presidents of the provincial councils. In fact, in order to facilitate the operations it is expected to postpone from 30 to 90 days of the natural expiration of the mandate, of the revocation, of the early dissolution of the provincial organs. Provision is also made for the extension of fixed-term contracts for Province staff due to the close needs associated with the need for continuity of services. I would like to remind with sympathy, especially to my colleagues in the North League, that they complain about this measure, that there is no criticism of article 4, paragraph 5, which provides for the extension of one year, to 31 December 2016, of the deadline for the use of available resources and special accounts made available to some Provinces such as that of Monza-Brianza; this provision is necessary for the length of time related to the modalities of transfer of functions. Another important point that faces the decree-milleproroghe law concerns the competitions for the distribution of the gas. It is a theme that the Municipalities - and above all the aggregations of the Municipalities of the established authority - have been facing for years now, but they are really on the way. In fact, we are now intervening precisely on the discipline of the races, because we have finally reached the point. A further six months are allocated to carry out all the procedures before the appointment of an ad acta commissioner. You see that even in this case the extension is only six months, precisely because now, finally (I say it with some pride), we have arrived at the end of a process that had begun even in 2000. Another important issue for the municipalities is the budget. Approval of the budget is always a crucial moment in the lives of local authorities. We extend for 2016 the application of the procedure which gives the prefect the powers of impulse and substitute for the appointment of the Commissioner ad acta responsible for preparing the outline of the forecast budget of the local authorities. This rule has also been extended for many years; it probably deserves structural intervention. The theme, however, is fundamental in order to be able to balance the budgets of many municipalities is the use of savings to renegotiate mortgages and repurchase securities. It is a subject that I am dealing with with with some difficulty, because, as a balance sheet technician, I tend to think that everything about mortgages and securities buyback should go back to the investment side. [[Recalls of the President]] I'm going to conclude. It has been confirmed that the economies resulting from the lower annual capital-based disbursements can also be allocated by local authorities to cover the current part: it has been reiterated by the Court of Auditors, as well as by the Cassa depositi e loani. Mr President, I should like to end by saying a few words about something that no one has raised, but which I think is nice to recall. Article 1 provides for the reopening of the deadlines for the submission of applications for recognition of the qualifications of "partisan" who fell in the struggle for liberation and "patriot" for those who fell under a decree of 1945: the new term is indicated - and I think it is emblematic - on 25 April 2016 [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Campanella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u50	Senator Mauro Giovanni is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, we are still here with a thousand steps and a further request for confidence. In the time when we are tambourinated by slogans such as "sburocratization," "celerity" and "innovation" we are faced with a measure that, alone, dares to discuss roads, highways, fishing, Bagnoli, Equitalia, public administration, local taxes, Pompeii, Provinces, university, municipal secretaries, firefighters; and - why not? - we do not miss the electoral rules for the election in the municipalities of Calabria; and then, again, researchers, lawyers. Well, all this is dealt with in this decree-law thousand extensions, which today is placed in the attention of our Senate. It is put to our attention with the method of the question of trust by the Government, so that it blazes the eventual riots of dissent that can arise around the provision. I find it very daring that some of my colleagues in the majority have even wanted to describe this as a contentful measure. Sometimes diversity, perhaps belonging, makes us lose the objectivity of the facts. How can it be considered rich in content a measure rich only in diversity of matter and absolute heterogeneity, not only of content, but also of intrinsic schizophrenia, due to the fact that some extensions that we really do not want there are and others that we should grant, precisely to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of administrative action, instead there are not? In this measure - she mentioned just now - we find the problem of the Province and the Metropolitan Areas. A government (and with it the majority) that has strongly wanted a change of epochal scope and fundamental for the organizational structure and the economy of the Country, is now granted extensions in its realization. This reform should not then be so epochal and important, nor so well structured, since it constantly needs extensions and adjustments, such that sometimes, in the eyes of the public, it is something truly devastating. It is a reformer that reformes for worse, because today the Italian citizens have all the disservices deriving from the lack of the Province intermediate agency and all the costs deriving from the maintenance of these structures at territorial level. We didn't spare anything. We have made the level of services worse at the expense of citizens. We have delegated the fundamental rights of people with disabilities, even by delegating the fundamental right of access to public education: this we live today with the norm that we continue further in the decree-law thousandprorogates. The only extension that we were asking for was that of the National Health Fund, a plan that still penalises all the regions of the South. A few days ago the statements made by Prime Minister Renzi, in his electoral rounds in the Southern Regions, in which he claimed that he wanted to intervene in this twist to the detriment of the Regions of the Mezzogiorno of Italy in the repartition of the sums of the National Health Fund. Sorry to borrow your slogan, dear in our time: If not now, when will it be? If the Premier's statements were just two weeks ago, why does this measure not immediately take note of them and grant further extensions in this area? My colleague, Mrs Zanoni, spoke earlier about the plans for tourism. This Government, which manages to be so soft and understanding with respect to the delays of the Regions in the implementation of the regional plans of tourism, grants further extensions (because from the public point of view they must be granted all the times they consider necessary and even beyond), forgetting that the further time granted to the Regions, in turn, will make the possibility of financing Community funds lose. On the contrary, the Government is absolutely inflexible towards private companies in the tourism sector, because we do not allow any extension in the obligation that these companies have to adapt their structures to the fire regulations. 12:00 p.m. (MAURO Giovanni followed). We are absolutely hard and inflexible, we show the hard face of the national government to the private and to those who daily clash with a reality that certainly is not advantageous, in an economic contingency and of tourist flows not of course advantageous, but we are absolutely docile and we show the benevolent face, but also harmful to the country system, towards the Regions, allowing them to use as much time as they want to implement implementing tools that are absolutely necessary. While we do not give the private sector what the public can give to promote its own economic growth, on the other hand, with the private sector we are absolutely hard and inflexible on the maintenance of the times. What can I tell you, then, about a measure that is totally foreign and unrelated to immediate needs? From the point of view of this House, our legislation is sometimes even schizophrenic. We consider here, for example, the Bagnoli case forgetting that only this Government has intervened at least six times with different measures: once in financial, once by decree-law, once again with a direct parliamentary initiative, and today we are still talking about extensions and adjustments. Each time it seems that we are going to adjust, with precise legislative interventions, distortions generated by a previous legislative intervention. But what kind of legislation is this? What is it like to mortify the legislative function of the Senate of the Republic? The government cannot, it must not force the Senate to approve measures, because then it forces its majority by the method of trust. It cannot force the Senate into legislative initiatives of which there is really to be ashamed from the point of view of the law and parliamentary procedures. I ask my fellow university teachers whether they would ever teach their learners that this is a correct legislative method. Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, sometimes people who do not listen to music and see people dance get the impression that they are crazy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Well, sometimes I think that our fellow citizens, looking at the action of Parliament or the government, can have the impression that we are really crazy, because the music we hear here, that is, the justifications that are found in the action of the government and the legislative initiative cannot be understood, are not at all understood by the citizens. What we see is only the result of our action which - I assure you - also thanks to this measure on which you have put your trust today, can only be schizophrenic, unlogical and absolutely incomprehensible. That is why we are absolutely opposed to the measure and will vote no to confidence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u52	We welcome the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education Rocco Scotellaro in San Giorgio a Cremano, in the province of Naples, who are today visiting the Senate and follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here once again to approve yet another decree-law with the vote of confidence. I have frankly lost sight of the opportunities used by the Government to use the instrument of the urgent decree, mortifying the role of Parliament with the vote of confidence. In the question referred for a preliminary ruling by the Conservative and Reformist Group - which is in the proceedings of this Senate - we have represented that in many respects this umpteenth decree-law is a violation of rules which, while on the one hand they do not contain any extension of time limits - therefore, they are neither homogeneous to the content nor corresponding to the title - on the other hand they are not urgent because they introduce new rules that would require more careful examination, where instead they are submitted to Parliament in a hasty way, with the risk that they will shortly have to be corrected urgently by the Government. There is evidence, for example, yet another intervention on the Bagnoli-Coroglio area contained in article 11- bis of the decree-law, the third in a short time, after decree-law n. 113 of 2014 and the recent decree-law n. 185 of 2015. This decree-law, as said, contains heterogeneous norms: there is even one that concerns the Red Cross. In short, it is a real omnibus decree. Preliminary questions are not only a customary act, to which we are now accustomed, to colour the parliamentary debate, but are a strong reference to constitutional precepts with respect to the use of the decree-law as an instrument of government, which, if used improperly, violates the rules of parliamentary democracy. On the other hand, with the excessive use of the decree of urgency, the Government shows us all the hasty approximation it places in driving the country. This, of course, unless it is about other issues, for which the Government operates with unusual speed and without those colored slides to which it has accustomed us, regardless of the effects - even mortal ones - that derive from its decree and on which, perhaps, even a commission of inquiry is promised, except then, inexplicably, transform it into a simple cognitive investigation. We have the impression that the government is now afraid of the outcome of an inquiry and that it is trying, by any means, to lengthen the stock. Let us return to us and to the so-called'multi-pronged' decree-law, in which there are even rules that have been extended since 1988. Once again, this measure certifies the inefficiency of a regulatory body, which cannot be implemented: a way of admitting its inability to comply with standards, often of Community origin. This is frankly indecent and, basically, the mirror of the bad functioning of the state. Parliament is committed, at the beginning of each year, to adopting a decree-law which ended up becoming a symbol of the inefficiency of the State because, if it were not so, there would be no need to extend from year to year, from decade to decade, the rules that are enacted, but which then remain dead letter or whose effects are to be postponed on time. Out of respect for historical truth, it must be said that this questionable practice has united, so far, governments of center-right and center-left. Would it not be better to work with seriousness and tenacity - we would say with ethics of the function of service, to which politics is called in democracies - in putting an end to the situations that today want to extend and use resources in Parliament, on issues of fundamental importance, for the keeping of republican institutions? Think of the two years that have just passed since the inauguration of this government. The President of the Council, not later than 22 February last, indicated, among the many things still to be done, the full implementation of the reform of the public administration, complaining (and I quote) that there are certain times, it is not necessary to make public administration a timbre to the Checco Zalone, citing a lucky movie, which has raged in the cinemas, in the past weeks, constituting a concrete example of how to laugh of the miscostume, pointing it to the public guitar. Instead, with this second decree-milleproroghe law, the Government shows that it has no intention of changing direction, of giving to the country - among the many things that Italy actually needs and that we have not yet seen - an efficient and functional public administration, really and concretely at the service of local and national communities and able to be a flywheel of economic recovery and to guarantee a completed democracy. The Government has no intention of giving to the citizens and businesses, to all those Italians who retain residual will to undertake, like those few foreign entrepreneurs still perplexed in investing in Italy, rules and certain times, leaving - this yes is the heavy legacy that will leave us here shortly - a devastated country, with a gross domestic product that, if all goes well, will touch just 1.4 percent and that will oblige us to suffer, well that goes, an additional maneuver of 23 billion in order to avoid, at least in 2017, the safeguard clauses. All this in a Europe that is gradually putting us on the edge of a European opinion that, see the editorial of the "Finncial Times" a few days ago, judges us sufficiently and embarrassedly. The Government therefore prefers to postpone the implementation of the provisions contained in this omnibus decree-law, rather than to recall to its responsibilities those who, having not acted in terms of law, are really responsible for the need to define further extensions. The government prefers to admit its inability to comply with the rules that he himself wanted, postponing them, but claims to go up to the Chair by giving advice on how to restore the European Union, while Italy risks being put on the sidelines of the Union, having also lost the opportunity at the recent European Council to redefine European rules, as we have repeatedly requested. These are also the reasons why we Conservatives and Reformists are against this umpteenth decree-law, because, as long as this Parliament exists, the rules of parliamentary democracy must be respected by all, not compressed with the decree of urgency and raped by the vote of confidence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u54	Madam President, the North League is against both the method and the substance of this measure. In the method because the use of decree-laws is constantly being abused and the role that the Government should play in these matters is also abused. Parliament is given two months to approve what is enshrined in a decree-law by the Presidency of the Council, but then the measure is brought to the attention of the parliamentary assemblies only at the time of expiry, so as to make normal parliamentary activity impossible, i.e. the possibility of amending and amending these measures. In addition, often and willingly the question of trust is also raised, so in fact Parliament is totally expropriated of the role of legislative body, which should represent one of the priorities of the constitutional organization of our country. It is clear to everyone that at this stage, more than in the past, the President of the Council and his Government are in themselves the executive and the legislative powers, clearly going against the Constitution. Parliament is being exonerated from power and measures of questionable usefulness are also being taken. The rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, wanted to highlight all the good and the best contained within this measure, as if the extensions included were virtuous. In fact, the extensions collected in this decree-law are mostly derogations from the rules already adopted, but which have actually proved inadequate. They represent the need to postpone solutions of unsolved emergencies (e.g. the issue of waste in Campania); there are extensions of reforms that have not yet been implemented and need to be implemented; there are extensions also to the necessary measures but which are actually postponed indefinitely. For example, in this milleproroghe there is the postponement of the approval of a decree that should be aimed at preventing the abusive practices of the taxi and car NCC service, and this highlights the delays of the government. The Commissions and provisional decisions which seem to be eternal are extended. It actually serves to heal mistakes, misguideds and forgetfulness. It is a necessary measure, but in itself it is the worst of the faults and shortcomings of the method of law-making of our State. The relevant ministers and ministries should unravel this skein and ensure that in a year's time you do not find yourself in the exact same situation. In fact, we are convinced that in a year's time we will always find ourselves in this situation and in this way of lawmaking that should be absolutely outdated. It is not, therefore, virtuous, as the rapporteur has wished to say, but it represents - as the Deputy Minister has honestly said - perhaps the worst way of lawmaking in our country. On this measure we are asked to trust the Renzi Government. The North League clearly says no to this President-in-Office of the Council and to his speechless and absolutely inconclusive government. We have wondered whether all the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council regarding the improvement of the public finances, the recovery and the lives of our citizens are realistic or, instead, the result of fantasies and propaganda. Well, the facts lead us to believe that this Government does not deserve trust and that the President-in-Office's chatter is at zero, that is, they no longer have any credibility. He's not just the President of the Council. Renzi is also the secretary of the Democratic Party, which has ruled this country continuously since November 2011. This method that it uses to say that this Government is doing better than the previous ones, namely the Monti and Letta Governments, is a clever procedure. In the reality of the facts there is a continuity that is represented by the force that governs this country for five years, which is the Democratic Party. It can't be said that things are getting better. The last three governments have created countless problems and injustices such as that of exodus, workers affected by the infamous Fornero law. Is Renzi Government doing better? No, because it does not call into question these injustices, but the few certainties that our citizens still have, such as survivor's pensions. It affirms that a policy is being implemented to protect citizens more effectively. We know that many citizens have suffered in recent years tragedies linked to natural disasters. I am referring to the last ones, those of Brenta or Emilia. Well, there have not been adequate interventions; the damage suffered has not been compensated and even in Emilia there are citizens living in containers and, if they fail to pay the utilities, they are threatened to be hunted or considered dead. Our communities are increasingly at the mercy of gangs of criminals who enter their homes and who can rob them and do what they want with them. What's the government's reaction? It's almost nonexistent. The idea that we can't even defend ourselves is now passed in our country and that, if anyone tries to do so, they risk their own jail time or lose their assets with absurd claims for damages. There is no longer the certainty of punishment, but that of impunity and empty prisons promoted by this Government. Then there are the crazy policies regarding immigration with prefects who, on order and mandate of the Minister of the Interior, even threaten the communities to kidnap unused private homes. These are the insanities of this government. There are citizens who are hit every day by the Revenue Agency and by Equitalia mercilessly. Being unable to honour their debts to the State for a pressure that is now hallucinating, they know that they enter a circuit in which, if they do not pay once, the State can ask three times as much what they have not managed to pay, if not more. What does this government do? He deals with big tax evaders. Not only with the sanatories, which this government obviously calls with foreign terms so that we do not understand what we are talking about, as for voluntary disclosure. Indeed, when there are large international groups escaping, the government goes to make discounts, and not to triple as it does with ordinary citizens, on what they should do to the state and the coffers of the treasury. Then there are situations that have become unacceptable. How can we trust a President-in-Office of the Council who says that the employment problem is being resolved, that there are always more fixed-term contracts and that this is a sign of recovery? Go tell all those who do not have work and have no prospect of getting it. The President-in-Office of the Council also says that the tax burden is falling. I should like to say this to all those who have a thousand disputes with the Revenue Agency and are in danger of shutting down their activities because it is impossible to honour their commitments. How do you trust a government that, in one night, with a decree has stolen from countless citizens, a few thousand (as I say ironically), the savings of a life? This government with its actions deserves absolutely no confidence. Perhaps he will be able to obtain it from this House, through the transformations of representatives of the citizens who often and willingly, once they have entered this House, forget that they have to represent their needs and needs, and have as their priority, unfortunately, only themselves and the will to continue the legislature. But he certainly no longer has the confidence of the country and he will not have the confidence of the North League either. We therefore refer this umpteenth request for trust to the sender. No trust in this government. No confidence in the President of the Council, Matteo Renzi. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u55	Senator Davico is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, we come to the adoption of a measure which is rich in content which is necessary for the country after a quick transition to the Committee on the merits of the Senate, which is, however, compensated for by a thorough examination and very much involved in the other House of Parliament. It is a legislative intervention that in many ways appears not only useful, but indispensable, not to say inevitable, to arrange, improve and give continuity to existing regulatory provisions. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I do not hide from you that I say these words with a bitterness, because this measure, in some way, with its simple existence certifies still high levels of inefficiency of the public administration, where it has not been made promptly the adjustments that the law required giving a time, the time of the so-called transition. But in Italy it seems that the transitions are endless, that the transition times are never enough. It happens, therefore, that the times are prolonged, not only once but repeatedly. That is why I believe that all of us, as members of this House, and more generally of the institutions of this country, must strive to ensure that the quality and level of efficiency, in terms of completeness and applicability, of legislation reaches higher standards. At the same time, however, I recognise that the Government is doing a very useful and positive work, as well as very tiring, of recovering back legislation, of legislative decrees that have long accumulated and are now being progressively enacted. Certainly some of the extensions that we are about to vote arise from the fact that this work of recovery has not yet been completed and completed; others, however, arise perhaps from the fact that a more organic legislative production should be created, which reorders, rationalises and simplifies our order, preferring the codification in unique texts, rather than the stratification of thousands of individual legislative acts. The government is also working on this. I am thinking, for example, of the simplification of legislation that is being implemented these days and which refers to the reform of the public administration. The certainty of the reference of the regulatory framework is a valuable asset - it is for families, economic operators, those who have to invest and those who have to plan their future and their lives - and we must move forward quickly to guarantee it to the citizens. Entering into the substance of the measure under consideration, the various provisions are made in continuity with many measures already adopted by the current Government and aim to extend deadlines or deadlines whose importance needs to be postponed over time. The measure contains topics of primary interest, which constitute an important part of the path of economic growth and efficiency of our country system. I refer, for example, to the rule that it has to raise to 20% of the contractual amount the anticipation of the price to the contractor, with reference to the contracts of contract relating to works entrusted following calls for tender or other custody procedure initiated after the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of Decree-Law No 192, 31 December 2014, until 31 July 2016. Also in the field of infrastructure, the extension of technical and economic requirements for the participation in tenders and public works and the extension to 1 January 2017 of the entry into force of the rule on the telematic publication of notices and invitations to tender are to be welcomed. It is also worth noting that attention is paid to the subject of school construction, so the investment of new technical and economic resources is vital. The decree-law in question rightly differs from 30 April 2016 the period within which the entities receiving the funding provided for by some school building programmes must provide for the transmission to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the provisional awards of the related works, subject to the withdrawal of the funding. Finally, it is expected that the structures used for school services will have to adapt to the current laws and regulations on fire prevention within six months of the adoption of the Ministerial Decree provided for by Decree-Law No 104 of 12 September 2013, and in any case no later than 31 December 2016. Remaining in the field of school building, the postponement to 2016 with reference to the exemption from payment of the dismissal contribution for specific cases, such as dismissals made as a result of changes of contract and the interruption of permanent employment in the construction sector for the completion of the activities and closure of the yard appears positive. Another sector that needs to be supported and strengthened, because it is fundamental and driving the economy of our country, is that of tourism. In this regard, I recall that the deadline for the demarcation of tourist districts is extended to 30 June 2016 in order to relaunch the tourist offer by the Regions. The districts are important to promote the relaunch of the tourist offer and the improvement of the organization of the services, allowing the companies that work in the field to enjoy greater opportunities of investment, access to the credit and bureaucratic simplification. In addition, the entry into force of the waste traceability control system (so-called SISTRI) has been extended by one year to 31 December 2016, while ensuring current compliance and obligations. This further extension was predictable and absolutely necessary, because this computer system for monitoring the traceability of waste has not yet seen the light of day since the entry into force of the standard. Moving on to the field of public administration, the decree-law under consideration provides for the extension of the deadline for the recruitment of permanent staff related to terminations occurred in recent years, in compliance with the constraints provided by the turnover, by the administrations of the State, agencies, non-economic public bodies, including the police corps, the National Corps of Firefighters, state universities and research bodies, within the limits of expenditure provided for by the legislation in force. I believe that the part of the measure relating to the extension of the provisions on security and counter-terrorism is equally crucial. I am referring, in particular, to the part in which it is envisaged to retain for a further six months the telephone and telematic data held by the operators of the telecommunications services when the preservations are aimed at the detection and repression of the crimes of serious social alarm and terrorism. Also in the matter of security, just as fundamental is the extension that allows for the twelve months to come confirmation of the maximum limits set for 2015 on the additional hours to be paid as extraordinary, in order to allow the payment of the compensation for extraordinary work to the police (Policy of State, Carabinieri, Prison Police, Guardia di Finanza e Corpo foresto dello Stato), waiting for the decree defining the same limits for 2016. It is also thought of the support of the local institutions, in particular the municipalities, for which it is expected that they can, until 30 June 2016, use Equitalia to make more effective the assessment, the liquidation and the collection of taxes. Finally, the attention paid to the territories, including mine, which are still facing emergency situations, is positive, providing for an extension, contained in Article 11, of the provisions of advantage in order to facilitate the restoration of the territories affected by exceptional atmospheric phenomena in recent years. The areas affected by weather emergencies are Sardinia, Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto. As I said at the outset, this measure is itself a sign of system fragility. It is not nice to do the milleproroghe and less it is nice to do it with confidence, but this is a structural fact, unfortunately. We hear every day keeping track of the amount of trust placed up to now. Of course, if we do not change the system and reform the institutions, in the future we will have more and more, because it is physiological that in a system in which obstruction has become almost a normal practice, instead of being reserved for dramatic cases, Parliament's activity has slowed down. In a system in which bicameralism involves a fatigue of legislative processes, the Government, which must take decisions, serious damages for the country, has as the only instrument of certainty of the times that of the question of trust and decree-law. With the reform being approved we hope that the guarantee of paths with clearly determined times for the government will allow to avoid at least the confidences; if, then, improving the quality of the legislation, we manage to avoid even the thousandprogresses would be better, it would be optimal. In the meantime, however, we cannot stop. The first signs of economic recovery must urge us to continue stoically in the renewal project undertaken. For this reason, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I believe, however, that this year's thousand-pronge is, as far as possible, as dryer, less confused and better structured for topics, with more precise extensions and without structural rules and that it contains absolutely indispensable and urgent rules for the survival or resumption of essential sectors of the country and of all. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u57	Madam President, at the end of December a new Decree-Law extending the time limits laid down in the legislation is presented. The very fact that every year it is necessary to hurry to issue a decree-law with hundreds of paragraphs in order to extend deadlines already established by previous laws is indicative of the bad functioning of the State. The commitments made cannot be met within the prescribed time frame and a delay is called for promptly and on time. Often the postponement does not concern both the tasks of an inefficient administration and the rules that affect the lives of citizens. In recent years we have seen all the colors: from the killing of abusive houses to the banning of plastic envelopes for spending, from accounting rules to delays in payment. This partly explains why, in the course of the conversion into law of the various decrees, several others suggested by the government are added to the extensions proposed by the parliamentarians: since the provision must be approved within a predefined deadline, the temptation to insert measures among the most disparate is very strong! It is an inexpensive way of responding to lobbying and interest groups. If the assault on the law of stability, which has been presented to the armored Parliament in recent years, has failed, there is a new diligence to be besieged: the milleproroghe, precisely. It is already serious that at the end of the year we have to stop the clock for non-compliance on peremptory deadlines, but to this is added the necessity of an omnibus vehicle, in addition to the financial maneuver, in which to make, together with the referrals, other instances that could never become law alone. The AL-A Group has voted against the questions of constitutionality presented by the other minorities because, in our opinion, the issue of the heterogeneity of the matter can now be considered to be overcome by the material Constitution that has been affirmed over the last ten years. Needless to say, outraged today, when since 2005 all the governments of center-right, center-left, technical or great coalition each year have made use of the instrument of milleproroghe. Alternate indignation is a method that should be removed from politics. However, even if the question of the discontinuity and heterogeneity of the subjects dealt with for us is no longer constitutionally relevant and is now an integral part of parliamentary practice, moreover, with the decisive obstacle in the promulgation by the President of the Republic, we will also vote against this measure, because from this Government we expect reforms and innovations and not pedissequa repetition of the old Italian anomalies. It seems to me necessary to recall, in this regard, the detailed letter addressed to the then Premier Monti and to the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate, in December 2011, by the President of the Republic of Naples, who stated that, on the occasion of the recent decree-law of December 29, 2011, n. 216, amendments were accepted and approved which introduced provisions in no way related to the specific extensions contained in the decree-law and not even to the purpose indicated in the premises of guaranteeing the efficiency and effectiveness of the administrative action. The provisions thus introduced, if in compliance with the requirements of extraordinary necessity and urgency, should have been more correctly placed in a separate decree-law. On that occasion, the Head of State stressed - and I quote again - the need to respect, when assessing the admissibility of the amendments relating to the decrees, the criteria of close relevance to the specific subject matter of the decrees and their purpose, including by adopting, if deemed necessary, the appropriate amendments to the parliamentary regulations. Without these measures - this was the sense of the high warning addressed by President Napolitano to the Monti Government - the risk that one runs is the annulment by the Constitutional Court. Well, that warning has evidently remained a dead letter, because the successive Governments then presented other decrees thousandprorogues more and more heterogeneous, more and more complex, increasingly weighed down by norms compared to that presented in 2011 by the Executive Monti. Among the measures approved in the decree-law that we are discussing, there is the seventh postponement of the reform of the collection, which had been foreseen by a development decree of 2011 and which has been continually postponed. Equitalia, which should have ended collecting local taxes from 1 January 2012, will continue to do so for another six months, until 30 June of this year, provided that the reform is resumed in hand, after also Article 10 of the tax delegation has remained dead letter. There is also a one-year extension of the SISTRI contract to 31 December 2016 to ensure the continuation of the waste traceability control service. The deadline for the application of emission limits for industrial installations is extended to 1 January 2017 in order to allow the authorisation to be updated. The ceiling fixed in 2010 for remuneration, tokens and allowances paid in the public administration (including the Board of Directors, management or control bodies and independent authorities) remains also for the whole of 2016. The decree postpones to 31 December 2016 the period within which the amounts paid by the public administration may not exceed those resulting from 30 April 2010. It is also extended until 31 December 2016 the deadline for recruitment of permanent staff related to terminations in recent years, in compliance with the constraints provided for by the turnover, by the State administrations, agencies, non-economic public bodies and public bodies provided for in Article 70 of Legislative Decree No 165 of 2001, as well as by the Police Corps, the National Firefighters Corps, state universities and research entities with the limits of expenditure foreseen. I could go on for a long time in the list of measures which are completely uneven and lacking in systematicity. This thousandprorogations therefore shows too many inconsistencies by a government and a majority who preach in one way and then behave in another, through the enactment of decree-laws that are gradually modified and more than doubled during the parliamentary debate. I remember that, precisely in the national reform plan of April 2015, there is a specific commitment from the Renzi Government, in which it is said that many initiatives will be put in place to resolve critical issues and interministerial issues on the adoption of complex decrees, precisely to try to facilitate the legislation and simplify a regulatory framework that otherwise remains confused. Well, this absolutely heterogeneous measure goes not only in the exact opposite direction, but also against the provisions and agreements reached in Europe by the Government itself, where there is a precise reference to a regulation that includes specific and above all simplified interventions. There is, however, another great criticality in the decree-milleproroghe in question: even in the case of a heterogeneous standardization there should be, in fact, the reduction of the regulatory burdens, while the measure in question brings additional expenses, new subjects that are inserted with texts that start from those that are presented as extensions, but that in fact operate normative changes, reallocations of resources, changes of cover; interventions that go to modify also commitments made in the various passages of the fiscal laws. In short, it is a sort of legislative Risiko, with hundreds of references to rules that in turn refer to other rules. An emblematic case in this regard is that of the Provinces and metropolitan cities, where an improvised and messy reform has been carried out. Well, on the same subject in a year there has been three times in the decree-law thousandprorogates in order to prolong the contracts of the precarious ones. In fact, the Delrio reform, which dates back to the spring of 2014, has actually turned the Provinces into confused entities of vast area living in chaos, especially as regards staff and functions. The halving of resources by the State has resulted in chain consequences on the efficiency of services and impasses on the distribution of functions. The new institutions that survive the old Provinces have some fundamental functions: they have 5,100 school buildings for 2.5 million students, they deal with the maintenance of about 130,000 kilometers of roads, they manage environmental protection and now - the last gift of this Government - they must also provide assistance to the municipalities, not to mention the uncertainty about who has to manage the fundamental centres for employment. In conclusion, Madam President, the Government in office has made its mantra speedy, but the average age of extension is four years and on average the repetitiveness of the arguments has exceeded eleven years. There is then no modified rule - no one, I repeat - to hold on to itself; indeed, we will often wait for further acts, legislative decrees and so on. I mean, we're faced with a normal complication. The Bagnoli case applies to everyone: twenty-one years of rules and now every record has been beaten. There were three decrees, three extensions and some adjustments, some sort of legislation in progress. The decree-law of July, converted, with amendments, in September, was modified in the law of stability, to be further amended now in the decree-law milleproroghe and who knows how many other times this will happen in the coming months. Obviously, however, the measure deals not only with the Bagnoli case, but also with roads, highways, fishing, Equitalia, public administration, local taxes, Pompeii, Provinces, universities, municipal secretaries, firemen, electoral systems of the Provinces and Umbrian Municipalities, then of Calabrian Municipalities, researchers, lawyers, and the system of control of the traceability of waste (SISTRI), that we have just remembered. There is nothing, in short, organic, systematic. In addition, rules on the foibe and the Moro case have also been included in the Multipronge Decree-Law in question, which perhaps, due to the dignity of the matter, could have been excluded. For all these reasons, it is impossible for the AL-A Group to vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u58	I welcome the students and teachers of the Professional Institute of State services for food and wine and hospitality hotel "Filippo De Cecco" in Pescara, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I have already had the opportunity yesterday to express my disapproval of the thousand-pronged decree-law that we are now examining, but in the context of the debate I have seen one subject go through speeches by many of my colleagues and it seemed useful to me to point out one aspect. I have heard from a government representative, but also from a majority senator, that the reason why the government, year after year, would be forced to move the deadlines is linked to a bad functioning of public administration or, better to say, public administrations. The fact that public administrations do not function well is all too obvious. However, as someone has talked about employees who have no sense of responsibility or feel too protected from the fixed position, I would like to put things back in their proper position a little bit. From most of the public employees I have had the opportunity to know, even for my personal experience, perhaps the most intense feeling is frustration; frustration at the impossibility of carrying out their work in an orderly, profitable and recognizable way by the users. This is due to a responsibility of politics that has historical dimensions. Let me give you an example. It happens very often that, in the offices, employees have to educate practices in record times because they are very important and interest the summit of that administration. Those practices, defined in record times, in compliance with the standards, as required, then remain to take dust on the table of the summit for one, two, three days, four weeks, five months, until it serves nothing. This is not an isolated case, but it happens very often. We are talking, therefore, about people who have not seen the contract renewed for years and years, without seeing a positive perspective in front of them, and who see themselves aging in their offices without seeing new colleagues coming because of the turnover block; or, better, who see the work moved on participating companies, whose employees are often hired for political merits or for merits of relationship with politicians. In this overall situation, go and say of those people, who go to the office every morning trying to work and make their work recognized by the people who appear from outside to the offices, that the responsibility would be theirs, when it is the policy that has blocked public administration and that continues to keep it blocked for its own political interests, it is something that frankly puts outrage. I thought it was right to say that. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u61	Madam President, some of the previous speeches have pointed out that it is customary, now ten years ago, to adopt a measure extending the time limits for various sectors of public administration and beyond. This consideration recalls another, more general one, on the times of public administration, which are indeed, for many measures, excessively long and cumbersome. Where these delays involve citizens, confidence in institutions and the shift between society and public administration are inevitable. In view of these considerations, the process already initiated by the Government, on which the Chambers have already expressed themselves, seems improcrastinable in order to arrive at a reform of the public administration; a process that must lead to eviction of a redundant and excessive legislative apparatus, introducing the concept of not superimposing law to law, norm according to norm: a process of delegification. I would therefore appeal and urge the Government and the Minister for simplification and public administration to speed up their efforts and, above all, to aim decisively and rapidly in this direction. This is what civil society asks of us and what the economic world is asking of us, which is looking for and wants to actually engage in economic recovery, which many indicators confirm has begun. The recovery is undoubtedly made use of initiatives already taken, in particular those relating to labour standards and the reduction of costs for businesses. That is a general point I have made. Entering specifically, the milleprorogues that we are preparing to vote with confidence provides for the slippage of some timings related to Law No 107 of 2015, so-called good school that, already in the phase of discussion and approval, had emerged to have actually short time to implement mainly two issues: the one relating to school building and the one relating to the stabilization of teachers. The first issue of school building is related to the premise I have made. The timing between the political sharing that our local authorities must pursue and the implementation of public works may be several months; sometimes - if the opinions of over-ordered bodies are foreseen - even years. Just think of the three levels of design (preliminating, final, executive), the tenders, the award of the works, the realization of the same and the tests, before you can use a work. In particular, the time taken by the regions to accept the requests, examine them, define the ranking, contract the loans, according to the laws on financing for school construction, which actually provided rather short times, moreover already extended with other measures. Without this further extension, many municipalities and provinces would have lost their assigned contributions. For school buildings, the following deadlines are therefore extended: to 31 December 2016 the deadline for the implementation of the existing laws and regulations on fire prevention for school buildings. Also in the same matter, the decree differs to 30 April 2016 the time limit within which the entities beneficiaries of the financings previewed from some scholastic construction programs must arrange the transmission, to the Ministry of Infrastructures, of the temporary awards of the relative intense activities: penalty the revocation of the same financings. Finally, it is expected that the structures used for school services will have to adapt to the current laws and regulations on fire prevention within six months of the adoption of Decree No 104 of 2013, and in any case no later than 31 December 2016. As of 31 December 2016, the deadline from which nationals of non-EU countries, who are regularly resident in Italy, will be able to authorise self-certifications. As of 31 December, the deadline for the associated management of the fundamental functions by the small municipalities established by Decree No 78 of 2010 and the extensions relating to the provisions on counter-terrorism; in particular Article 4 (b) extends for one year - until 31 January 2017 - the deadline by which the President of the Council may request the judicial authority that the directors of the Security Information Department be allowed to talk with inmates to acquire information useful to prevent acts for international terrorist purposes. In the field of security, the maximum limits set for 2015 are extended to 2016 on additional hours to be paid as overtime, in order to allow the payment of compensation for extraordinary work of the police (State Police, Carabinieri, Prison Police, Finance Guard, State Forestry Corps), pending the decree defining the same limits for 2016. For public administrations it has been extended to 31 December 2016, instead of 31 December 2015, the deadline for the recruitment of permanent staff relating to terminations in recent years, in compliance with the constraints provided by the turnover, by the State administrations, agencies, non-economic public bodies and public bodies provided for in Article 70 of Legislative Decree No. 165 of 2001. For administrative justice, a six-month extension of the period from which all the acts and measures of the judge, his assistants, the staff of the judicial offices and the parties are signed by digital signature and the related experimentation of the telematic process is envisaged. As far as the tourist districts are concerned, the deadline for their demarcation is extended to 30 June 2016 in order to relaunch the tourist offer by the Regions. As far as infrastructure and transport are concerned, there is provision for extensions of legislation on technical and economic requirements for participation in tenders and public works. In particular, the extension of technical and economic requirements for participation in tenders and public works, with amendments to the Code of Public Contracts, is positive. The entry into force of the provision on the electronic publication of notices and notices of invitation to tender is extended until 1 January 2017. The deadline for the use of resources in the field of school construction is extended to 31 December 2016. The Programme Agreement - part of services 2012-2014, with Italian Railway Network (RFI) is extended to 31 December 2016. It was also expected that another year would be extended for the IT system for monitoring the traceability of waste (SISTRI), which had never begun since the year of its theoretical entry into force. With regard to economic and financial terms, the possibility of using Equitalia for the establishment, liquidation and collection of local taxes is extended to 30 June 2016. Extensions of time limits for emergency interventions are foreseen. Finally, the focus on territories facing emergency situations is positive. Article 11, in fact, extends certain provisions of advantage in order to facilitate the restoration of territories affected by exceptional atmospheric phenomena in recent years, such as the extension of the mandate of the Extraordinary Commissioner, the state of emergency and the suspension of mortgages on citizens and businesses. The areas affected by weather emergencies are Sardinia, Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto. Moreover, paragraph 3-b said provisions aimed at ensuring the carrying out of activities of technical and administrative support to the Campania Region, for the implementation of the operations of disposal of waste in storage at the different sites of the Campania Region, dating back to the emerging period that runs from 2000 to 2009. Finally, the paragraph 3-d said provisions aimed at allowing the continuation of the reclamation of polluted sites in the Land of fires: it is extended by seven months, until 31 July 2016, the commissioner's management for the safety and reclamation of the bell areas of Giugliano and the lakes of Castelvolturno. It also extends to 31 December 2016 the deadline from which the mandatory traceability of sales and returns of newspapers, newspapers and periodicals through the use of computer tools is foreseen and the tax credit is extended to the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. Finally, I stress some agendas, proposed by the Group of People's Area, which were accepted in the Commission, aimed at the postponement, also due to the local elections, of the deadline given to the Municipalities to elaborate the integrated extraordinary programs of residential construction that provide for the construction of subsidized and facilitated housing to be granted for lease to the employees of the government and the Forces of the order, the extension of the deadline for the entry into operation of the energy plants already registered in the registers open to the Manager of the energy services (GSE), to be realized in areas that during the years 2012 and 2013 have been hit by calamitous events, safeguarding numerous private investments and, finally, the postponement of the terms to complete the works and interventions for the mitigation of the hydrogeological risk in the Regions. [[Applause from Senator Gualdani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u62	Colleagues, as decided by the Conference of Leaders, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1 p.m. and resumed at 4 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u65	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I asked for the floor because yesterday a vile attack on Professor Panebianco was repeated a few days later. It is an attack on freedom of expression and freedom of teaching that reminds us of other dark and sad moments in our country. I believe it is necessary to express, at the institutional level, the highest solidarity with Professor Panebianco, not for the person, but because the attack represented a serious violation of the foundations of our democracy, that is, the freedom that each of us in words declaims, but which deserves to be protected and guaranteed in daily action, in particular in that shrine that is the university, which should be a school of culture and freedom. On the other hand, we are witnessing for the second time, a few days later, an attempt not only to prevent teaching, but also to challenge freedom of expression. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u68	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I think it is worth paying attention to what Senator Caliendo has just said and we certainly associate ourselves, remembering that in recent days the disappearance of Umberto Eco has been commemorated, a person who has dedicated his life to philosophy and culture in the university, and that in universities, by definition, all opinions and ideas and confrontation must be found. Reviewing the images of Professor Panebianco thrown out of his classroom and in the impossibility of expressing his opinion and conviction, philosophically argued, saddened and worried us. In fact, we must remember that forty years have passed since events that bled our country and that were born precisely from a dissent in university, from those who did not want to allow others the expression of their opinion. Let us not lose sight of these degenerations and let the Government make a serious reflection, so that the expressions of intolerance that have manifested themselves at the University of Bologna are in no case a justification for new bad teachers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u71	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak because, personally, even for my profession, I believe I must express absolute solidarity with Professor Panebianco and add my strong criticism to episodes such as these. When in a country one loses the sense of respect for people and opinions and criminalizes people for their history one has lost the deep sense of civil coexistence, before democracy. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u74	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to add to the comments made by my fellow Members, whom I share, also a note of merit. Panebianco is today the subject of fierce criticism, which far transcends the aspect of legitimate criticism, because it has expressed an opinion on the need for armed military intervention in Libya. Well, I would like to say that, with everyone's peace, we recognize that in Italy we cannot talk about this dramatic situation of contemporary political life in two places: one is the University of Bologna and the other is the Italian Parliament. I would like to remind you that we have been insisting for days because, through the work of the Conference of Leaders, in all places and moments, from the Foreign and Defence Commissions, to the very sphere, which is the House, the Government wants to discuss with Parliament what it intends to do in Libya. If we add to this that the newspapers, on the other hand, tell us what the Italian Government is undertaking and that this has all the characteristics of an intervention, for which it would need a view of Parliament, it is difficult to justify in the eyes of the public that we are with Panebianco and we want to defend its point of view while, as Parliament, we self-censurate ourselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u75	Of course, the Presidency joins with the solidarity expressed by colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u76	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u77	Mr President, citizens, colleagues, we are faced with a thousand extensions and a new one: a novelty on the electricity bill, so those who consume little will also pay for those who consume much. There are still many who are waiting for the so-called green act, a package of rules, which was promulgated with great speeches last year throughout the world, even at the UN and the Paris Climate Conference, by our President-in-Office of the Council. The green act should or could have created tens of thousands of green jobs and promoted environmental and health protection. In the meantime, the President-in-Office of the Council has thought very well to reverse on all energy fronts, sinking energy efficiency and self-production from renewable sources. This effect will have in fact the provisions contained in point (b) of paragraph 2 of Article 3, which modify, from 1 January 2016, the structure of the tariff components related to the general charges of the electrical system for uses other than domestic ones, and, with the same effect, restore the exemption of the general charges to the energivores. Do you understand Italian citizens? They restore an exemption: a discount to companies that consume a lot of energy. This means that, while until now the new reform of the electric tariff reported in the bill has affected only the domestic customers (to be understood, the families), with this thousandprorogues extends to all the productive system, the commercial sector and that of the services are small, big or medium: in short, to all the realities. What does this mean, in practice? Until December 31 last year, the electricity tariff provided that the price of electricity would rise as consumption increased and therefore it was a progressive tariff. If a family or enterprise consumed little, it paid less, in absolute and in proportion, than one that consumed more. Now the concept has turned around. Whoever is virtuous or who, for his own situation, consumes little, pays a proportionally higher bill. It is, therefore, a double blow. Firstly, efficiency and energy saving measures are being put at a disadvantage, while until last year the progressive nature of the tariff discouraged energy waste by rewarding energy efficiency measures which - let us remember - are the essential and priority pillar of the European Union's energy policy, as well as a pillar of common sense. The first measure to be taken should be to make our consumption more efficient and we can safely cut our consumption by half. The second damage is the restoration of a discount on the electricity bill of large energy consumers, which had been interrupted by an infringement procedure opened by the European Commission, and it is restored without intervening on what the Commission has requested. Dear Italians, then try to imagine who will have to take charge of this discount to the most energetic companies. Not the discount that the President of the Council had promised to all Italians! As a result of the measures contained in the multipronge measure and the closure of the protected market, millions of Italians will find themselves in the near future more expensive bills of 20-30 percent. Bubbles more expensive than 20-30 percent, in the face of the promises of the government and the halving of the oil price! Our industrial policy can provide for the support of certain categories of enterprises and we can certainly decide this, but we should do so by binding aid to improvements in the production process, efficiency and technological innovation in the greenest possible sense. As it happens, this is exactly what the President-in-Office of the Council would have wanted to do, but he has remained a dead letter. For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement has proposed the amendment of the norm that favours, once again, the great producers and distributors of energy, that you, with the imposition of the umpteenth question of confidence, demonstrated once again to favour, to the detriment and damage of the more than 500,000 small producers of renewable energy and the entire chain of energy efficiency. In short, you assume the responsibility of sinking one of the most innovative and qualified sectors of our country, which involves thousands and thousands of people employed, that is that of distributed generation, energy saving and self-consumption and self-production by renewable energies, and is done to say, to millions of Italians greater polluting emissions, which will determine a greater smog and the relative deterioration of human health. Colleagues, you take responsibility for this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u78	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the mayor and the delegation of the Municipality of Bornasco, in the province of Pavia, present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u79	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u80	Mr President, the activation of the debate on the matter of trust gives me the opportunity to highlight some passages in the replies that took place at the end of the general debate. In the meantime, I would like to make a premise on the methodology: for the umpteenth time, we should go back to criticizing the imposition of the question of trust. This seems to me to be obvious and, unfortunately, absolutely repetitive in this House. But this time there is one more aspect, and it is that, as we have understood, there was a desire to postpone not only the debate, but also the final outcome of the debate linked to the difficulties that are being encountered on another measure, on which perhaps we will be called tomorrow to express a further vote of confidence, which, as far as we are concerned, will be a vote of non-confidence. The majority and the government have therefore demonstrated once again that they are going ahead and that they are not even able to manage the work of this House methodologically. It would have been much more convenient, since we are coming to the final adoption of this measure, to activate the ordinary debate and to examine the amendments and agendas. Since we received confirmation this morning from the rapporteur and the representative of the Government that many agendas would be accepted, it would have been an opportunity to explain to the House what happened in the Commission. However, we would have reached a point of timefall which would enable the majority and the government to complete their internal debate with a view to finalising the text on so-called civil unions, which are waiting for Parliament to have yet another vote of confidence tomorrow. That said, within a moment on the substance of the measure. I must once again thank Deputy Minister Morando for the content of his reply this morning, not because, with some passages, I was right about some exceptions that I had raised about the difference between the extension of deadlines and the reopening of deadlines, of which this measure abounds, but because he had the intellectual honesty to recognize that the vast majority of these interventions are due to the inefficiency of the public administration and, above all, the inefficiency of the link between legislative measures and measures implemented by the public administration, as well as to three difficulties listed by him. The Deputy Minister pointed out three fundamental, structural difficulties, which then lead to the adoption of the multi-pronged measure, difficulties which very often lead to a strong division in the content of this measure between the proclamations of the reforming activity and the difficulties that this reformative activity encounters because, very often, it goes on without taking into account its real possibilities of implementation. This is also confirmed by Senator Pagliari, who, in the rhetorical form of the question, asking us whether or not we thought it appropriate to do some things or not, has made a timely list of many rules that have been extended as an additional period of survival of old rules that have been modified by the majority and the government during this last year. An example for all: Senator Pagliari has rightly asked if it would not seem appropriate to keep anticipating the contractor by 20% of the contractual amount compared to the entry into force of the 10% advance. This is what we discussed on that occasion: the old rule, which provided for the anticipation of 20%, was certainly more appropriate than that which, in the reform mania of this majority and this government, was enacted, which reduces the anticipation to 10%. Today we hear from the direct mouth of one of the highest representatives of the majority in this House that it is appropriate to keep the old rule alive. However, it would be much more intellectually honest to abolish the rule of amendment, since, from year to year, we prolong the survival of the old rule. This is the unequivocal sign of the confusion that reigns at the regulatory and administrative level, in the relationship between majority and government and in the relationship between government and operational structures of the Ministries in this country. We cannot therefore cast a vote of confidence. We were already critical of the measure itself, as ordinary law, and we cannot express a vote of confidence to a Government that, by its own confession, by confession of its illustrious representatives, both governmental and parliamentary, recognizes that it has committed a whole series of errors and that it must recover them through forms of intervention that, however, as I said, are not the most linear. It is not enough to extend the rules, it is necessary to make a serious reflection on the content in order to verify whether it is not necessary to abolish those rules which today, being recognized as not congruent, give rise to requests for extension. That is what we have been saying for a long time and that we have been saying that we must do it for a long time, as I have said and I repeat that many of the rules contained in this multi-pronged decree-law, not having the extension feature, would have been much more correct than including them in the text or in the amendments adopted to the House, the subject of appropriate measures to be submitted for Parliament's assessment. Assessment that, as has also been said by the representatives of the majority, has been reduced to the minimum compatible with our Regulations, but certainly not at a time compatible with the activation of a democratic debate and with the interest of the country to be able to examine all proposals for modification and better adjustment. Mr. President, I'm not going to dread you any further. A short while ago you reminded me that you were forced to listen to my speech for the umpteenth time. I would like to ask whether I have disturbed you so much and I would also like to ask my colleagues for a word, but unfortunately some of the concepts should be reiterated, because the common intention of all, majority and opposition, is to bring the democratic debate to the right beehive, trying to achieve a useful result for the country. This is what we all strive to do, even if unfortunately opposition and time management, especially by the Government and the majority, do not always allow this to happen. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u81	Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that Mr D'Alì, who spoke earlier, referred to the reply of Mr Morando, who is not here at the moment. On the other hand, I greet the presence, on behalf of the Government, of the Undersecretary Gentile, who also represents my land (mys is therefore a particularly heartfelt greeting). The speech that was made today by Deputy Minister Morando was an honest speech. He did not claim that these measures are as far as possible, because in fact the situation we inherit and which has stratified over the years is not as great as possible. And I must say, I agree with Mr D'Ali, when he says that one of the problems that certainly adversely affects the competitiveness of our system is the extreme volatility of the rules; rules that change continuously are certainly a problem. Having said that and saying that many of the topics that have been dealt with have to do with the criticalities of our way of legislate, which we are trying to limit gradually, I will say that the approach, which I have shared, is an approach that has to do, precisely, with the criticalities of the institutional and constitutional system that we represent today. These are critical issues that have to do with double reading and bicameralism. We were forced to work first in the Commission and now here in the Chamber, in a hurry but probably this is the last decree extending the terms of the Italian Parliament examined at double reading (Room and Senate). In fact, if things go as they should and how I think they go, it will no longer be the competence of the Senate to examine such a measure. The criticalities therefore have to do with the constitutional system, to which we have tried to remedy through genuine reforms that should improve and make the system more efficient. But the critical issues also have to do with the difficulties of the relations between politics and administration, between politics and national, regional and municipal institutions; they have to do with the public administration and its reform, which is still only a law, while soon we will have the decrees delegated and we will have a strengthening of the Italian bureaucracy and public administration, when the legislation that we have launched will become effective. We therefore need to look at these rules from a system perspective and with realism. What are they responding to? First of all, I would like to make a comment. Many speak of "milleproroghe" because for many years now, practically every year, a decree-law is issued that contains an extension of time limits, so much so that the Constitutional Court itself has had to deal with it and has had to tell us that the heterogeneity that concerns the matter is an undeniable fact, but that there is, however, a unique function of these measures, precisely that of extending the terms and maintaining the effectiveness of a regulation, even when there is no term in the strict sense. From this point of view, this year and last year we have defended the constitutionality of this type of measures because they meet one objective: the extension of deadlines. Why are these terms extended? Meanwhile, I would like to point out, just to give some numbers and say that things are evolving, the fact that we are in the presence of 23 articles, 13 originating from the decree-law and ten added by the House. This is the sign of why the debate is then blocked, since the House has legitimately added ten articles, but we could have done the same and the provision is due. The point I would like to highlight is that over the years the number of extensions has gradually decreased: we have not solved the problem, but in 2015 there were 160, of which 80 introduced by the Government and 80 by the Parliament, in 2016 there are 105, of which 45 contained in the decree-law and 65 introduced by the Parliament. I mean that the phenomenon is probably marginalizing, even if the problems are not solved. Someone wondered if it marginalizes to the point that soon we will not have a thousand-pronged decree. Deputy Minister Morando said that he does not believe it and I must say that anyone who has administered a municipality knows that at the end of the year there are deadlines that often cannot be met, so the idea that you can solve all the problems within the deadlines is quite pilgrim. The point, therefore, is no longer to have a decree-milleproroghe law (which then are no longer a thousand), that is, a provision of this kind, but to ensure that it is always more rational and in line with the principles. Turning back to the discourse on system dysfunction, I would like to say that looking at the substance (in which I do not go by), a confirmation of the reading that the Deputy Minister gave, and which I give in accordance, is also found in the article, because many extensions concern not an ineffectiveness or an inability of Parliament to legislate, but the difficult relationship with the peripheries and the difficulties that are encountered in these contexts. For example, action is taken to extend the terms for the mergers of municipalities because on the territory - and those who frequent the territory know what the situation is - an account is to put on line four names of Municipalities with a certain number of inhabitants, one account is to arrive at a merger, both in organizational and practical terms. Therefore, it is difficult with a law to drag the whole system, the whole institutional chain in an efficiency that is often more innovative and less able to find itself on the territory. The same could be said about another point, namely the permanent contracts for the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities, which have been mentioned. Rightly, it could be objected that that kind of contracts are being banned from the system and therefore wondering how it is done to extend some of them; however, in the real life of the country the Provinces are being abolished, the vast areas have been created, but everything has not happened everywhere, at the same time and in a linear way; therefore, if there are functions to be performed and people in the flesh and bones that are fulfilling them and that are parts of a contract, until the problem is resolved, we do not proceed by cutting by linearity of behavior, but assuming the responsibility to extend the terms also on issues to which we wanted to act differently. In this discussion, in which Bagnoli was also mentioned, many have evoked the Calabria Region as a negative example, but also the norm that concerns that Region does nothing but allow the continuation of fixed-term employment relationships already signed. The finalization is to stabilize the staff, avoiding however the sanction charged to the Region, sanction that would be immediate if there were not this authorization. So we do not go to find a term in a technical sense, but for this year we have put funds in the law of stability and the Calabria Region, which must do just as much or more than what the State has managed to do, because it must stabilize the concrete, needs this authorization rule. All this to say that, very often, the norms before us are dictated by criticalities that are not always state or ministerial or central, but are on the territory. We don't always have to shout at the scandal. I would like to mention the case of the extension, at the end of the parliamentary term, of the deadline for the completion of the work of the bicameral committee of inquiry on the abduction and death of Aldo Moro. Someone has said that we do not want to finish the work and resign the report because we do not have the sense of responsibility to conclude, but that is not the case: who has followed the Commission's report, even if it is journalistic, since the Commission has not reported here, knows that there are important new things that are for the attention of this Commission of Inquiry, so what else should we do? An ad hoc law, such as the ad hoc document that I drafted for the Commission which I chaired? There is the extension of the time limits and it is linear to include it in this measure. At other times the extensions respond to much more significant and important needs, even of an international nature. I could, for example, refer to the case of the fight against terrorism, for which the derogation from the normal arrangements for the storage of telephone and telematic data held by telecommunications operators is extended by six months. If you realize that the time allocated is not enough, do you have to lose the data or do you have to provide for an extension? This is the rather easy-to-solving dilemma before the legislator. Cases could continue and could concern, for example, the telematic administrative process. I have also heard the President-in-Office of the Council of State, who spoke about the possibility of everything taking place in a computerized manner in the near future, but this goes through terms that are due to expire and that need to be properly regulated. All this discourse, without going into the merits of too many cases (and I see that the time available to me has ended) means that it is too easy to say that it is an atypical measure, full of content and that it is wrong to continue this way, especially at this moment, by whom, it is not that it does not know, but does not practice the struggle of the Government. We are faced with a measure, therefore, which is difficult to take forward, especially when it deals with limited cases, such as those mentioned at the end of her speech by my colleague from the Democratic Party, but it is a necessary measure, which will be examined, perhaps only in the House, even in the years to come, until a different formula is found: probably with more precise and concise rules and fewer numbers, but it will be long. I must say then - and I shall conclude with this - that, given that the measure is about to expire and that it is not changeable in any of its contents, because it has already been amended in substance in many points by the House, it seems to me that the Government has not made a choice of particular courage, because putting trust was a necessity and, therefore, voting on it will be a duty on the part of the majority. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u83	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u86	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that, according to a rather recurring and witty line, nothing in our country is more definitive than the provisional one, but I must also say that we are really trying to make this joke a sad truth, waiting for the relapse, which I consider to be seriously negative, that the legislative effect of this measure will have in the life of the Italians and of our country. However, this is what has happened on time, now at least since 2001: about fifteen years of tendency to set, through legislative measures, deadlines, punctual and precise also in taking measures to disregard those same rules, deferring the deadlines. Here, therefore, after the law of stability punctualizes the decree milleproroghe whose name leaves no room for doubt, nor surprises, we could say, some moreover unpleasant and unpleasant because then the number of the provisions contained in the milleproroghe sometimes risks to be even exceeded because within these one has the ability, by making the fantasy work and putting the wings to the inventiveness, to put us really everything, even what urgent - let's say it too - is not. This is also a reference to a system of urgent decrees that obtains the visa of the Head of State also with regard to measures that are deprived of the element provided also by the constitutional norms regarding the requirement of urgency. So, made the norm, the extension is ready; this has now become a practice by which the country is governed. A practice that becomes a serious sign of irresponsibility especially when Italy is in a particularly delicate economic situation, particularly complex due to the economic and financial implications that have weakened its development perspective; at a time when, moreover, we should decline with greater punctuality and precision the principles of credibility and reliability, having to present ourselves in the European assembly with a straight back in order to obtain, if not to claim, with adequate authority that greater flexibility on the constraints in the field of finance, in the absence of which the risk of a corrective maneuver coming in the next spring is unfortunately quite realistic. This reliability should also be demonstrated through a greater sense of responsibility for legislative measures, demonstrating it to our citizens that - I would like to remind you - last year in 100,000 have left Italy and have been deleted from the register; to citizens who no longer bring children to the world (the denatality index represents the most serious, pernicious and worrying level of impoverishment of our country and risks exposing the virulence of the intergenerational conflict, which also determines as a consequence a laceration of the levels of social cohesion) and to those citizens who in about ten million - ISTAT recalls - are no longer able to cure themselves and are faced with the dramatic choice whether to buy medicines or to eat. The ISTAT is punctual, clear and unequivocal in front of this painful and dramatic photograph that is taken of the conditions of the country. To these Italians, to these young people, to these families and enterprises burdened by the highest taxes in Europe in the face of very few services what do we answer? What does the government offer? It offers a kind of payment and I believe that this is particularly serious and a sign of an inability to develop a concrete recovery of that credibility, of that responsibility on the legislative side that represents a bit 'the map of litmusol. In the thousandprorogations decree there is everything, distinguished colleagues and friends of the Government: from recruitment in public administrations, to health, international terrorism, from local authorities in disrepair, to the Provinces that are the ectoplasm of a virtuosity never declined, up to the horse through earthquakes, floods, railways, South-East, contracts, waste, energy efficiency, school building, Italian Red Cross, publishing and more. Many of these chapters have nothing to do with the need for a realistic extension, an extension justified on reasonable and plausibly acceptable grounds of urgency. Of course all this happens while the assault on diligence is staged and the ball is thrown into the field of the future verb without changing by a single comma the things that do not go, without dissolving one of the crucial nodes that prevent the country from developing: for example in the South, with the Masterplan never known, to get out of the long phase of backwardness or backwardness. All this happens as the doors open instead of the bail in, without thinking about its introduction - this yes - with a soft landing; a gradual introduction to safeguard savers and the same Italian credit system. Public expenditure and efficiency of public administration once again come out with broken bones. Article 1, for example (prorogation of terms in matters of public administration) is illuminating from this point of view, because it highlights a fundamental contradiction: while on the one hand recruitment is blocked, on the other hand it allows the flourishing of agencies and participates as if it were raining; practically everything that does not enter the door is allowed through the window and without even public competitions: cheer up the meritocracy! It is a good thing that the General Accounting Office of the State has intervened - I would also say in a heavy and authoritative way, of course - on many amendments which have been considered inadmissible. A wrong path, gentlemen of the government, a road that we do not share. Unproductive spending continues to constitute the ball at the foot of our country, and it is on unproductive public spending that we must intervene if we want to recover those principles of social cohesion that must find the first and more concrete reading in the recovery of trust, investment, support for businesses and support for the family as the first and fundamental aggregation of our society and guarantee instrument for welfare policies, since the family represents the first net of social protection at zero cost. This urgent decree does not solve atavistic problems, and finds in the contradiction, in the heterogeneity, in the repetition of bad practices from the legislative point of view, the figure of a form and a substance that is also at risk of unconstitutionality. You are wrong and we are pressing you with concrete proposals and practical solutions; you persist in error and we are left with only continuing to vote against a confidence that we will not give you because you do not deserve it. This is the decision of the Conservatives and Reformists Group. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u89	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the system that has been adopted in the course of the measure has been highlighted in this House on several occasions. The passage to the Senate was practically a farce: he arrived in the Commission, all in haste; no further study could be made, except a very brief general discussion, but it was already known that the possibilities of introducing correctives or improvements to this decree-law were zero. It is also somewhat perplexing the strict logic that several amendments have been declared inadmissible: a method which, unfortunately, then, as we have seen, has not been used in the House, where they have been made admissible, and then approved with the Government's favourable opinion, a whole series of amendments that have caused the extensions to rise - if we can talk about extensions - with a consequent abnormal number of chapters, articles, paragraphs and so on. It is a species that many of these paragraphs or articles did not even have financial coverage: the important thing was not to follow a logic of seriousness, but probably to satisfy the demands. For God's sake, you can understand the need to use the extension system: you arrive at the end of the year and may need an extension. The absurd thing that we are seeing is that every year there is, however, a serious endless extension and there is no logic in the enactment of decree-laws of this type. Therefore, the use of this system leads to legal uncertainty and confusion. The decree milleproroghe has now become a classic appointment at the end of the year: everyone knows that at the end of the year there will be a decree milleproroghe, which is also defined by the doctrine as "quintessence" of the dishomogeneous provision and emblematic case of the forcings to which the finalistic homogeneity lends itself, while even the press defines it as "mirror of the Italian impossibility to respect the terms. Even when they are to be honored by their own government or parliament, that is, the same ones that have set them. It is also unusual to see that many extensions are always the same. Let's think about the commissioners: I don't know how long we've been seeing them extend. Let's take the case of the waste of Naples: in this case too we saw the extension of the various managements, without ever getting to define the problem. It is a very special issue, Mr President, when the Stability Act approves a rule - for example the Stability Act for 2016, approved on 23 December - and after only five days a thousand-pronged decree is issued, in which the same rule, contained in the Stability Act, was amended only five days earlier. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In our view, these are illogical things, as is Article 2-b, which concerns the reduction of working time in the private sector. This rule makes it clear that the government is crawling in the dark and, instead of having a prospect of real utility for citizens - as a serious government should have - what it considers important is to show and create smoke: it does nothing if it is wrong, so much later, in one way or another, things settle down. Furthermore, special derogations should not be maintained for so many years, Mr President. Let us see, paragraphs 7-a to 7-d of Article 1, which contain an urgent and untenable rule, Mr President, as regards the recognition of rewards for military valor for the fallen partisans. This rule concerns the local legislative decree No. 518 of 1945, extended by Law No. 341 of 1968. The partisans, those who have performed their duty in the war, to date, having passed more than seventy years since 1945 and probably having those who fought at least eighteen years, are people who are almost 100 years old. So this is really an untenable rule, Mr President. It's been seventy-six years! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] All this highlights and shows that many times we could actually produce less laws, but do them better, so that they are really aimed at the benefit of the citizen. Think also of the rule inserted for the Olympic Games in Turin. As an extension, everyone thinks that it has been included in the decree one thousandprorogates, but it is not so: it has been inserted in a decree approved in October. I challenge anyone who reads that rule: practically, in order to recover the norm between the references to the various paragraphs I had to take exactly eight steps to understand what the law referred to the extension was. I think that the citizen must have a clear law: is this the law that now regulates the continuation of work? No, we must try to do the subterfuge; an absurd thing, in our view. Instead of making clear, accessible and understandable laws for citizens, we smoke. Speaking of smoke, all of you will remember when our President Matteo Renzi had boasted that he had abolished the Provinces. There is now the concern of the Province's staff: there is no problem, there is a need to protect permanent staff. But yes, we also extend the fixed-term one. But the absurd thing is that, according to Article 1, paragraph 9, not only fixed-term contracts, but also project contracts, are extended. But it seemed to me that the project contracts had been abolished! No, the government can do it: it may not comply with a rule it has made. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This rule applies to the whole world, private and entrepreneurial, but the government becomes the "normicin" in which it says: I can avoid doing that. Senator Lo Moro, I know that you and I have already had a quarrel with the extension of contracts for the Calabria Region. The thing that is perplexed is that it concerns only Calabria; and all the other Regions? One cannot do something for one region alone and leave out all the others, because this creates discrimination. Why should other regions and municipalities comply with the rule? Another particular case is the extension of the digital signature of the courts' acts and measures. We were talking about digital agenda and technology, but then we always get to make extensions, because this country is not yet ready and because all the beautiful slides are just slides and nothing concrete. We are also talking about the self-certification of foreign citizens. We're all seeing what happened here in Rome, with these people making self-certifications, which are then worth it. But aren't we in the age in which we're all controlled? No, non-EU citizens can be allowed to make self-certification. I remember the case of self-certifications in which many non-EU citizens had certified to have become parents and with them had received the bonus; a pity that then, when you realized that it was not true, you could no longer recover anything. Allow me one last thing, Mr President, concerning the extension of local transport and the redevelopment of means for disabled people. A serious state should be concerned about people with disabilities. Instead, it promises itself just to keep them good; then, perhaps, to dead father - and perhaps not even then - you will get what you promised. For all these reasons we will vote firmly against the measure and confidence of this fanfare government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u90	We greet students and professors from the Institute of Higher Education Luigi Donati in Fossombrone, in the province of Pesaro-Urbino, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u93	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is the customary use of this Government, which has now made us accustomed to this practice, the extension that is intended to postpone the time limits provided for by various very diverse legislative provisions. In this regard, it should be recalled that Article 15 (3) of Law No 400 of 1988 imposes the requirement that the content of the urgent decree be uniform as an indefectible condition. It is strange that this Government always has situations of necessity and urgency to be buffered, unless it tends to exchange delays, defaults and inability to manage with the basic presuppositions of the decree of urgency. Even, in some cases, the deadline is extended by more years and more years. What I would like to focus on is, in particular, the extension of the deadlines relating to environmental protection and the expectations for green development that are increasingly falling. These are unacceptable extensions. In fact, Italy suffocates in smog, with a Po Valley that appears to be the most polluted territory in Europe. More and more efforts are being asked of the population, even if private productive activities are allowed to act with negative consequences on the state of the air. What does the government do? It approved a decree-law extending by one year the entry into force of the limits set by Europe for the emission of large combustion plants, which had had ten years to adapt, however. And what guarantees that there will be no further extensions in the years to come? It is true that the decree refers to the old plants but, in fact, the new plants are very few; moreover, the control over compliance with the requirements is entrusted to the same companies that manage the large plants. The most serious fact is that from this favourable situation will benefit, above all, the most polluting industries and therefore most harmful to public health. As if that were not enough, the penalties for non-inclusion in SISTRI are also postponed: the rules prior to the new waste traceability control system will continue to apply for waste management, without even taking into account the control of hazardous waste. It is a system wanted in 2009 that in recent years has been almost unenforced and unused and that has already cost millions of euros, in a situation in which in many Italian regions a waste management plan is completely missing and more and more frequent use is made of the landfill system. There is yet another extension for the possibility of disposal into landfill of special and urban waste with lower calorific value (CPI) of more than 13,000 kilojoules per kilogram: the ban that should allow to say goodbye to landfills, but that has never become operational for the series of extensions that have occurred over time not yet managing to remove half of the waste produced each year from the landfill. Instead of creating measures to protect the environment and human health, it seems that we want to "gamble" the green economy. As if that were not enough, an amendment was introduced which provides for the abolition of the progressive nature of energy tariffs according to the principle of more consumption and more pay, which is an ax to the issue of energy efficiency and renewable energy. Not that all this should surprise us, given the environmental policy that is being pursued by this Government: just think of the case of drills! It is worth remembering that every inhabitant loses on average three years of life due to smog and that in Italy it is estimated 30,000 deaths every year due to the high quantities of thin microdusts, nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide and carbon monoxide. All substances that the Agency analyses and classifies agents and carcinogens on behalf of the WHO has included on the blacklist of factors that cause cancer. And I have deliberately focused only on environmental issues, otherwise I should have extended my analysis also concerning the extension of the safety of school buildings and the fire regulations for school building itself. This is my position which also reflects that of the Euroexit component of which I am a member and the relative negative vote, of course bearing in mind that being my own Group, the LAG, a mixed group, each of its components decides how best it believes in respect of the various sensibilities that make up it. The fact remains that the environmental emergency exists and is incumbent on us: taking time will only aggravate the situation!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u94	Senator Barani, I take advantage of your presence in the Chamber to inform you of the following. This morning, during an exchange we had, I asked her what she said and I wished I had misunderstood her. However, I read from the shorthand report: Mr President, you are very aware. I know that you Legists are in favour of putting on a gag, but we (...). I would remind you, Mr Barani, that when I call a senator to this subject, I am doing my duty under the Rules of Procedure and when I sit here I do not belong to any political force. Therefore, this does not allow you to speak to the Presidency in these terms. So in this respect I should have made a point of order and a point of order. It went well, but I remind you that this is not the first time you have used inappropriate expressions and behavior in this House, as Senator D'Anna rightly points out, who supports me in my convictions. (17.03 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u97	Mr Langella (AL-A). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Italian parliamentary tradition bad habits never change, or change, when it's okay, with an exasperating slowness. The provision on our examination is now part of that bad goddamn thing. The decree was invented in 2005 and since then, relentlessly, like the arrival of the winter that every year the good God sends us, arrives in the parliamentary classrooms as usual. That distant 2005 was the final year of a legislature; it would be voted on 9 and 10 April following and it was thought, therefore, that the decree should respond to an exceptional event. Unfortunately, this has not been the case, and every year that alleged emergency has been repeated. I went to review the text of that first prototype. It's hard to compare with what we did today at our exam. The drafting techniques in the preparation of legislative texts in the meantime have evolved. The numbering of the articles has become a dependent variable, linked to the convulsive parliamentary activity. The only size that can allow a reliable comparison is the size of the regulatory text. In the first case we were faced with about twenty pages today we are more than double. Those ten years that are behind us, are not, therefore, passed in vain. We've done everything we can to complicate our lives. Still in these ten years things, fortunately, have not remained unchanged. We have repeatedly amended the law of general accounting, and a new attempt, as far as we know, is still in place. Fiscal federalism, which was to be the decisive element, was born and died, leaving us under a pile of rubble. We have tried to reform the Constitution both with targeted interventions and with more ambitious intentions. Let us hope that the last attempt will produce better results and that the next referendum will not undermine the need to start a process for too many years that has been delayed. But all this has not prevented the thousand-pronged decree from rising again every year, like a phoenix. I think we all need to think about this showy anomaly. We are always faced with the same characteristic: a convoy that leaves light from Palazzo Chigi, but that during the parliamentary debate is loaded with additional wagons, the result, more often than not, of the lobbying action of the individual Ministries, who, having the red light from the Treasury, bypass the obstacle by introducing the amendments desired by the different parliamentary groups. It's an all-Italian trait. In other countries things work differently: the Prime Minister's decision-making power is more binding, able to give unity to the government's political action. From us the will of the Premier undergoes all kinds of conditioning and in the end the mountain produces not a mouse, but a kind of dinosaur, which further complicates the already complex and far-fetched panorama of the legislation in force. Then, all taken from an understandable sense of guilt, we invoke legislative simplification, reforms of public administration, efficiency, etc.: proposals that we have been hearing for years and years. We know very well that it is not easy to pursue such objectives. In all Western countries, including the United States of America, where the principle of common law applies, the body of legislation has undergone a strong implementation over time, as a result of the greater socio-economic articulation that characterizes all modern societies. In Italy, however, we have long been in the pathology and it is on this element that we must reflect. In Italy today it is fashionable to speak of anti-politics, for the truth anything but a novelty: the Front of any man, with Guglielmo Giannini, journalist and playwright at the head, in the elections of 1946 he obtained 30 seats at the constituent Assembly. But if politics is lacking, the emptiness it leaves is occupied by the administration, that is, by a bureaucracy that is the largest producer of rules, because on this stratification it bases much of its power. And here, then, a provision such as the milleproroghe becomes the celebration and triumph of an ever more intangible status quo. The paradox of all this is precisely the impotence of politics, of that activity that would be reduced and limited not to achieve the common good, as is often said, but only to allow untransparent powers to continue to operate in a senseless management. Our responsibilities, as an expression of the highest popular sovereignty, are obvious, but not in the sense denounced. We do not need less politics, but more politics, provided, however, that it does its job, that is, being able to carry out those reforms that have so far been lacking. Questioning the causes of this failure is our most difficult task. The experience of the so-called first Republic, far from being removed, had to show us the way forward. Instead, we replaced the old convent with an exception, which had strong roots and international motivations, the predominance of the anti, the schmittian conception of politics, always hunting an enemy and never looking for an opponent to fight with. That "nothing" about which Galli della Loggia recently spoke and that tearing of the constitutional fabric divided the Italian political forces and prevented the construction of a solid perspective, able to face the real problems of the country, leaving field open to the opaque power of the thousand bureaucracies. What has been missing so far? A true majority, meaning not an aggregation of forces put in place by the alchemies of the electoral conjuncture, but that concentrated of shared analyses and common principles that form and are rooted in the difficult art of researching the solutions necessary for the serious crisis of the country and which inevitably presuppose a breakdown of the old aggregations and political old families to give life to something new, able to give political representation to those who, day by day, with their own work and determination, do not give up in front of the prospect of an always possible further decline. This is the precondition for giving effective legs to that reform process called for by all, but never or poorly realized, an inevitable long and difficult path, but which represents the only effective way to avoid continuing to discuss for another ten years a measure - let me say - which is as shocked as the one at our examination. I do not mean that this measure is not necessary, but that is the tragedy. Simply scroll through the headings of the individual articles to see the trouble of all the ministries - no one excluded - unable to meet the deadlines set at their time. It is the plastic representation of an administrative disorder that has been going on for too long and which can only be dealt with by implementing the necessary reforms. For this reason, we insisted on the need to reach a cohesive majority as soon as possible, able to grasp the bull by the horns. Moreover, our political history also shows that we have worked in practice to achieve this objective, giving rise to a new parliamentary formation when we were forced to see that in our old house we were moving in the opposite direction. And even today, in the light of our debate, we cannot help but have confirmation of how much our choice was necessary. In the light of the above considerations and in view of the slowness of the time of the necessary transaction, our vote, albeit with regret, can only be contrary to this measure. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u100	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we have already explained a great deal, both in explaining the question of constitutionality that we presented yesterday and in the other interventions of the Group, not only our political judgement but the issues of constitutionality that presents this umpteenth decree-milleproroghe law. This decree, in fact, shares in a decidedly confusing way a series of provisions, however, intended to affect - and this is the point - in a not trivial but sometimes also important way on the most disparate sectors both public and private, but also bringing particularly critical provisions. So there are no conditions for homogeneity. I listened, of course, to the remarks that have been raised on this statement: the decree is called a thousandprorogues and for this reason it is uneven. In fact, you know perfectly well that in this decree rules have been added which have nothing to do with an extension of time limits. In particular, some particularly critical provisions have been included, on which I wanted to focus, in terms of the environmental impact, among other things, at a time when we have made commitments, or we have pretended to take them (I am thinking of the climate conference in Paris), obviously continuing in the same way. The rules to which I intend to refer concern the umpteenth extension of the deadlines for adaptation to SISTRI (the computer system for monitoring the traceability of waste), which we have been talking about for years, until 31 December 2016. The decree-law that is about to be converted provides, in fact, in Article 8 some delays of terms for environmental compliance and, in particular, in addition to the extensions of the double regime of the SISTRI, with which the penalties regarding the omission of the registration to the SISTRI and the payment of the contribution for the registration itself are halved for the whole year 2016, there is another extension that is particularly serious and that concerns large combustion plants that meet specific requirements laid down in the single environmental text. For these plants it is expected that the adjustment deadline will be postponed until 1 January 2017. Not to mention the umpteenth extension that moves forward the ban on the landfill of special waste. I have chosen these three extensions to make it clear that this decree-law which, I repeat, is in our tradition, although negative and on which I will speak again - has an effect that is far beyond the simple extension of time limits. To approve these extensions would in fact perpetuate, in all three cases, a clearly not very clear and efficient management of waste both as regards landfills and as regards the case of SISTRI. The extension of large combustion plants is also particularly serious and environmentally impacting. Furthermore, we are not surprised, Madam President and colleagues. I would like to remind you that President Renzi, in presenting slides to celebrate the splendour of the two years of his government, has forgotten one, the one on the environment, perhaps because, in the shameless praise of himself, he obviously preferred to shimmer over the environment. And he probably did it out of shame, because he should have included a long list not only of things not done, but also unfortunately - from our point of view, and not only - of decrees-laws such as unblocking Italy, which have introduced a quantity of elements absolutely incompatible with any modern, credible and effective environmental policy. We are not talking about everything that has been involved in the strategic electricity sector. Also in this decree-law there is another very serious element, which is certainly not in itself only an extension of the terms, but in fact it challenges and prevents once again to go on the road of renewable sources and distributed energy, to the benefit of large energy producers and large companies, in contrast to what a serious country should do in this field. Only these three examples show that the Decree-Law under consideration makes choices and is not simply a matter of extensions. I am referring, in the environmental field, to measures on waste, electricity and the issue of large combustion plants. On the other hand, we are talking about those who have chosen, in the Italian release, to declare strategic works the incinerators. Therefore, we do not continue to justify the extension measures even as due acts, because they are clear and precise choices, both in the environmental field and in other fields. I could also talk about the extension of procurement deadlines and another particularly serious measure relating to school construction, whereby the deadline for the implementation of fire prevention provisions is deferred to 2016. I would like to remind you here that 44% of schools, according to a report by Save the Children, do not even comply with the current legislation; not to mention the Legambiente dossier, where the proportion of structures without a certificate of prevention is much higher. The essence of this decree-law once again - and we should be concerned with this - is the inability to understand public administration. Mr Pagliari told us that we have, however, done the reform of the public administration and what has happened so far, obviously in his view, will no longer happen. We are absolutely not sure about this, because it is clear to everyone that, because of the continuous cuts, among other things perpetuated also towards the public administration, it is difficult for the administration itself to continue to work at rates such as those provided for by the law of stability. I would like to remind you that the law of stability for 2016, on which trust has been placed, has a text consisting of well 999 paragraphs, which correspond about 155 implementing measures and subsequent ministerial decrees, interministerial decrees, decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, protocols of understanding, communications. These are almost 40 more measures than the last Stability Act, the one for 2015, and double the Stability Act for 2014. Practically the so-called public administration should work and churn out a measure every two and a half days. And that means that we obviously continue not to reflect on the fact that we legislate in an inappropriate way. You did not want to discuss this, even when we talked about constitutional reform. You know perfectly well - I always say this to the rapporteur, Mr Pagliari, because we have talked about it many times - that we should start with more self-applying laws and that they do not provide for continuous referrals, because this is the fruit of the milleproroghe. Unfortunately, we are not certain at all, because we have a different view of the legislation, that the reform of the public administration in itself can be sufficient to change the register. In fact, at this stage - and I am going to conclude - perhaps next year we risk finding ourselves with a thousandprorogations in which the number of extension provisions will be increased even more, considering that this year there were 155 measures, which are among other things only those of the law of stability. This is the point on which we insist that we do not want to change - this yes - to and register and, therefore, our vote will be against the substance and method and, of course, also to trust. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u103	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called to make an explanation of vote which has now become a ritual for Parliament. Our Group will certainly be voting in favour of this yet another measure, but not without raising some fundamental concerns. I would like to draw the attention of the Government, represented by the Secretary-General to whom we wish good work, to the perplexities deriving from the feeling of feeling at this procedural stage a little unnecessary and useless. I believe that this parliamentary activity, in which we are demonstrating that the decisions taken in only one of the two chambers can be sufficient to carry out legislative measures, is in a certain sense anticipating what will happen once the constitutional reform has been adopted. It is true that such a feeling, which I see diffused and also explained by many colleagues in their speeches, is justified and mitigated by the fact that in the House the decree-law under consideration has been greatly discussed, deepened and modified - as many as 11 articles have been added to the text presented by the Government - and in some way we can therefore be satisfied with the legislative work carried out by our colleagues. However, this leaves us a little bitter in the mouth, because we would have liked to engrave and find further solutions to make the measure more harmonious and mature. This - alas - is not possible, so we consider absolutely justified the complaints about two sins that bears in itself the measure under consideration: that is, the decree of urgency and the vow of confidence. The government, however, has this need, which we certainly respect, and therefore we are certainly, despite all the concerns raised, ready to vote for confidence. In my opinion, it is necessary to avoid, Senator Gentile, the systematic use of short-term legislation, which has the characteristics of temporaryity and provisionality, built on extensions which end up incorporating, from the outset, the forecast of subsequent supplementary measures. This way of proceeding is certainly in open conflict with the requirements of stability, certainty and simplification of our parliamentary term. However, we are satisfied because many improved norms have been inserted within the body of the decree-law, which has been enriched and characterized in a more virtuous sense in the House. If we do not change, in the future we will have to resort even more to such an instrument, which is physiological in a system in which sometimes it is necessary - I realize - from the Government to resort to strong choices. We must take into account the fact that, often, opposition obstruction is an end in itself and has become almost a normal practice, instead of being reserved - as it would be right - for dramatic cases. Therefore, in a system in which bicameralism involves a fatigue of legislative processes, the Government is forced to take measures that provide for the deadlines within which they must be approved and, therefore, must resort to the instrument of decree-law. In the constitutional reform there are rules for guaranteeing paths with clear deadlines for the government, which will allow to avoid, at least, the use of trust votes. Moreover, the use of multi-pronge now appears to be a solution that must necessarily be included in the forecasts of government activities, because during the legislature there are often legislative gaps that must be fully filled. Especially in a legislature like ours, in which there has been a plethora of parliamentary acts and activities, where many measures still need to be perfected by implementing decrees, it is clear that the milleproroghe serves to give time so that we can better harmonise and define measures that might otherwise also be monks. By entering briefly into the content of the measure, the rules of Article 1, which provide for recruitment in the public sector and mechanisms to facilitate the implementation of one of the structural reforms of the system, i.e. the reform of the public administration, deserve particular attention. This reform provides for ways of reorganization, simplification and rationalization of the order, which we are waiting for, precisely, implementing decrees, and affects aspects such as the reorganization of police forces, chambers of commerce, civil servants, public executives, municipal secretaries, participating companies, local public services, digitisation of public administration. In essence, we are going to affect the state's organizational machinery, which clearly requires well-designed measures. There are many subjects already in the reform phase that this decree aims to develop: for example, paragraph 10-a of Article 1 also concerns the reform of the school and goes to solve the problem of the precarious of the school itself, of which one of the competitions, in one of the last phases, is being defined. The constitutional reform with the abolition of the Provinces that from institutions of constitutional importance become bodies of administrative importance of wide area, the code of contracts, the reorganization of the judicial fora, measures in the matter of justice, digitalization of the process and of the public administration, measures in the matter of green economy are only some of the structural reforms that have been made or that are being realized. The People's Area Group has contributed to the Chamber of Deputies to the formation of these provisions useful for the country, also considering its remarkable and chronic problems in the fields of public administration. Precisely for this reason the so-called "Madia" reform has been carried out and the Government is proceeding with the legislative decrees of implementation waiting for them to come to the examination of the competent parliamentary committees. In conclusion, we are satisfied, clearly with the procedural concerns that we have raised, that I hope the Government will pay attention to and take into account. Our vote on confidence in this measure will therefore be in favour. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u106	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, citizens who listen to us, as little Matthew of the Copparo school would say, if we compared it to a flower, it would be petalous. The word "proroga" evokes a failure. It evokes an unfulfilled term, a policy that does not deal with problems, let alone solve them! It evokes the policy that keeps the unsolved nodes accumulating others, leaving them, denying their responsibilities because the priority is not the common good, it is not the well-being of the citizens. The 5 Star Movement from opposition force at least tried and tried again. We said that we would reject electoral refunds and we did so; that we would cut our wages half and we did it; that we would do a battle for citizenship income and we did it, and we will continue to do so hoping that, sooner or later, someone will wake up and follow us in this battle. We said that we would defend the importance of Parliament, respect for the institutions and that we would oppose abuse and violations and we will do so and we will continue to do so. The extension is the exaltation of failure, but also the lack of certainty. Citizens assume that any law that has a deadline will be extended. They think it's normal. Legal certainty is now optional. Too bad that extensions often concern very important things, and not only doctrinal things such as, for example, the security of structures. You have extended everything, even your own stay in Parliament after the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was to serve only on urgent matters. Instead, you extended it. The extension for you is normal when it suits you, and not for the citizens. Could you not extend the permanence of your fellow Members who have been apprehended by arrest warrants? This is how a few days ago you saved yet another companion of snacks, that De Siano senator of Forza Italia on which hangs a request for arrest of the prosecutor of Naples, made by three prosecutors, validated by a judge for preliminary investigations and confirmed by three judges of the review court. No way! Sent back to sender. Senator doesn't touch. Tana frees all with the favorable votes of Forza Italia, Nuovo Centrorightra and - by chance - also of the Democratic Party. While you're at it, why don't you extend the non-payment of rents, for example, for party offices? Oh, no, you're already doing it. You do it automatically in via dei Giubbonari not paying the rent, with a debt of over 170,000 euros to the Municipality of Rome. Orfini pulls out the money! I repeat: Orfini pulls out the money! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Continue to extend the Fornero law: every year you come up with something to lengthen retirements and thousands of people continue to see their pension further and further away. You have even managed to extend the vitality of the former condemned Members, pretending to want to abolish them. A year ago you were on the 5 Star Movement guilty of voting against the filthy resolution that, according to you, would have wiped out the vitality and that even President Grasso had disavowed. Mr President, you said - it is a pity that you are not here now - that your original resolution was more rigid. That resolution was voted, and we opposed it and attacked us; even from home they attacked us because we voted against that resolution; the press was all against it. Too bad now it turns out that that resolution was a failure, a flop, and they were reinstated even with arrears and interest (maybe those that were only suspended). Instead, when it comes to savers, those who believed in Italian popular banks, and in particular in Banca Etruria, deceived because no one monitored, in that case, for those who lost everything, no extension is allowed, none. Not only do you promise without maintaining, but you absolve yourselves. The milleproroghe is a kind of sheet rather than a decree-law, so heterogeneous and multifaceted that it should not even exist, as the Constitutional Court says. This decree-law is a hymn to favors, exchanges, marks, and nefariousness of all kinds. Inside there is everything: terms not respected and never any responsible. Do you try to ask citizens what happens if they delay paying a fine or submitting documentation for a practice? But for you, there's never any responsibility. There are also the extensions of the terms established with decree-laws, decrees that were urgent and that established terms, that then with the milleproroghe, another decree-law, are further extended, just to confirm that they had absolutely nothing urgent. There is also the saving of Equitalia, which postpones for another six months the deadline within which the local authorities will have to renounce to avail of this corrupt wagon that operates the collection of the State. Stop! The postponement shall be deleted. The 5 Star Movement calls for sanctions for those local authorities that do not organize their own autonomous service and still turn to this wheelchair that is bringing thousands and thousands of Italian citizens into the pavement. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On the other hand, when there are parties in the middle to be considered savers, i.e. those who cash and store under the mattress, there are rainy extensions, such as the Boccadutri law, adopted in an hour and forty minutes: 204 amendments - I would like to remind you - all rejected. One simple thing to do: it is a pity that for 500 amendments to the Civil Unions Act it would take days and days, months and years. But in that case 204 amendments failed in an hour and forty minutes, with our obstructionism in that case. Again about Boccadutri, another extension comes from him: that of the deadline for the delivery of cards related to 2013 and 2014, and who does not comply - surprise! - he'll be fined. Too bad this fine is inserted now, after you have had two years to heal even with the previous extensions, because you have already presented everything to take the money. We have given up electoral refunds; we do not take public money of any kind. And yet, now you also want to fined us, because we are asking not to be registered in that register of parties asking for public money. Does it bother you too much? Does it bother you too much that you can make a policy without public money? We have shown that we can be elected in Parliament without the use of public money and this is bothering you. How can we be your accomplices, gentlemen? This confidence, yet another - we have now lost count - you vote for it yourself. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u109	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law at our examination confirms the messy way in which this Commission operates: it is messy because, to the dozens of extensions initially provided for by the decree-law issued at the end of December, others have been added which have raised to 132 the number of paragraphs containing deadlines or modified terms after the examination of the House. By now the Government has put in place a contest to overcome itself in the production normative: hundreds of paragraphs in this decree, after the 999 of the last law of stability. I would first like to point out that we are faced with an economic and not merely technical measure, because it impacts hundreds of rules that affect the lives and economy of citizens and businesses. In contrast to what Prime Minister Renzi said during the session of the PD on Sunday, this Government is complicated any economic initiative, where, on the contrary, there is a need for a clear simplification work. And, again on Sunday, the Premier in his speech replied to the Court of Auditors, a constitutional body responsible for the control of public accounts, saying: We are politics, not technology. That is the problem, Prime Minister. When politics does not respect the force of numbers, it is inevitably overwhelmed. The Court of Auditors' alarm is only the most recent and follows that of the House and Senate Budget Services. Failure to clean up public expenditure will end up being paid by the Italians. The latest financial manoeuvres, which increase debt and deficit, are based on macroeconomic forecasts of the government disavowed - I would say punctually - from the downward revisions of the country's growth estimates, as stated by the European Commission, the OECD, the study centers and the rating agencies. In these two years we have seen only ragazzonati and unclear dossiers, we have witnessed the issuing of a series of delegations to the Government, which will further complicate the life of the Italians. The Renzi Government alone has jointly promoted rules that provide for more than 600 implementing measures in less than two years, while 240 measures provided for by the Monti and Letta Governments still remain to be implemented. These are all rules that provide for additional costs, due to the improper burden arising from the increase in bureaucracy. The real brake on the country's growth comes from a very expensive bureaucracy, as well as redundant, which is self-replicated, with a further alarm. If it is true, in fact, that the last month of 2015 has recorded a temporary decrease of the public debt in absolute values - while remaining on frightening values - this is mainly due to the decrease of the liquid assets of the Treasury. Therefore, from this year on, corrective action will be needed on public finances, in search of liquidity, to pay salaries. It is very likely that we will have to put in place a maneuver in the near future: in short, we are increasing our taxes. Just yesterday A company estimated in 10 billion euros the impact of this "mini maneuver" ("mini" is done to say). These will then be joined by 15 billion euros of higher VAT and excise duty, equal to the safeguard clause for 2017, and a further 20.5 billion euros, always provided for in the safeguard clauses, for each of the years 2018 and 2019. In this regard, just this morning Deputy Minister Morando, in his reply, announced that the Government will intervene to neutralize all the safeguard clauses. However, I would like to point out that 56 billion euros of clauses - this figure comes from the sum of the items I have just encrypted, that is 15 billion euros for 2017 and 20.5 billion euros for each of the years 2018 and 2019 - cannot be neutralized only by adding the results obtained by the tightening up of the fight against evasion and those resulting from the revision of the expenditure, also considering the last poor cuts proposed in the law of stability. Vice Minister Morando - in my opinion - is wrong: these interventions are not enough to achieve the objective that the Government has set itself, that is to cancel the clauses for 56 billion euros. The adventure of the Renzi Government will probably be shipwrecked in a sea of debts, but unfortunately - we do not say so with joy - will be borne by the Italians. In this particular historical moment, for our country we would need a great work of simplification, to stimulate to do business and - as I have already said - to reduce the costs generated by the bureaucracy. The decree-law at our examination, on the contrary, is a heart attack of extensions, extensions of derogations, new and further tasks, which will slow down the pace of the Italy system and will not allow to engage growth. In the text it is found that many of the authorizations are managed by the levels of government closest to the citizens, i.e. the municipalities. The municipalities themselves are, however, in the eye of the cyclone due to the recent scandals that have come to the fore in the news. And precisely on the subject of the municipal staff, in fact, in the decree-law to our examination is inserted a whole series of norms, that goes to strengthen the staff of the public administrations, that are one of the reasons of the increase of the total costs of the State. The public administration is still serving as a body of dozens of years ago, defined above all to respond to the enormous amount of tasks planned for the country that works. To this end, of course, the three-year programming documents of the individual administrations on the calculation of staff cannot be reliable. Therefore, to envisage new recruitments, as the decree-law does, although limited to the turnover of the cessations that have occurred, means to examine organic plants that should be considered obsolete, because - as I said before - most of the jobs established in organic plants refer to a mass of tasks that must be absolutely reduced. Although the government points to the containment of public spending, the decrease remains a mirage, if a serious spending review policy is not implemented. Above all, any increase in expenditure (i.e. the reinstatement of expenditure due to the reinstatement of redundant posts) should be made taking into account a public budget in which current expenditure has risen, while the total amount of investment has decreased. To this join the derogations to certain sectors of the obligation to purchase at controlled prices (in this decree-law the derogation for the school is for the whole of 2016), and then you can understand how you have managed to increase the expenditure by more than 52 billion in a year. We must proceed to a serious task of simplification, of verifying the usefulness of too many iters for authorisations and of achieving a streamlined system of silence-consent in the relations between public administrations and citizens. It should also be noted that a series of extensions provided for in the text to our examination merely refer to the solution of existing problems. The continuing postponement of the telematic administrative process, as well as the postponement of certain rules implementing the Code of Civil Procedure, mark uncertainty in speeding up certain justice procedures. This is also not a good sign for domestic and international private investors, given that one of the reasons for stopping investment is the fact that in order to resolve a civil dispute it takes, on average, one thousand and twenty days. In general, the public administration, conceived with a Bourbon minded mind, still carries with it difficulties to adopt new systems and new working practices. One example is the SISTRI (Waste Traceability Control System), conceived ten years ago, but which saw the light in 2009. Well, seven years later, operators in the sector are forced to keep a quadruple form of registration, three paper forms and one telematic form, with a considerable increase in the associated burdens. The decree-law under consideration, instead of resolving the problem, provides for a further extension of one year. In short, it is a measure to make melin, as we would say in football terms, and not to score results in favor of the country. The last consideration I would like to make is that of the online survey launched a few days ago by the Premier, who asks Italian citizens: What do you think is the most urgent reform now? But it is possible for the Commission, instead of following the line it has drawn, to take measures to achieve the objectives set, to ask the people what we are doing now? As we have said several times, there is a lack of clear ideas, there is a lack of programmatic plan to address the problems of the country and to give answers to the citizens. And that is why the Forza Italia Group will vote no to this fiftieth - and I repeat fiftieth - confidence demanded by the Renzi Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u110	The students and teachers of the Galileo Galilei School of Bibbona, in the province of Livorno, who are visiting the Senate and to whom we welcome, attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u113	SANTINI (PD). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate on the decree-law extending the time limits laid down by legislative provisions, there have been some very unfavorable and very partial speeches. First of all, I would like to address my colleagues in opposition to the centre-right: if the arguments you have put forward were true, they would be the best proof of the positive difference between the action of this Government and that of the Government in charge of the centre-right in the previous legislature. If the thousandprorogues decree were the thermometer that, by measuring the fever, signals the disease in the action of government and public administration, we could say, documentation to the hand, that with the Berlusconi government the fever was very high, while with the Renzi government the fever is very low: we are almost on the way to healing. The extensions, that is, are decreasing and we are now at an almost physiological figure and no longer pathological. For this reason, the theory echoed in many speeches in this House is reductive, from which it is derived that the thousandprorogation decree would be the emblem of a general malfunction of the Government and the public administration. It's not just like that. A more realistic reading was given by Deputy Minister Morando, who identified the origin of the problem in the excessive separation between the legislative process and the administrative process, in the difficulty of applying in the public administration the principle of responsibility and the practice of evaluating the results. And this is an issue on the agenda with the reforms that we are facing. The laws, meanwhile, in the transition to reform, determine more and more measures and measures that have a temporary duration. To examine the point of the situation and to see what needs to be done when these deadlines come is not only the highlighting of shortcomings in government action, but it is, instead, governing with realism and without prejudice, especially at a time when important reform yards are opened in public administration in all its sectors. Let us give some examples of this. An important issue has been resolved in the parliamentary examination. With the Fornero labour reform it was expected that since 2016 the so-called dismissal contribution would have to be paid even when one company takes over from another in a service contract, ensuring the continuity of the employees' work, or in the yards. It has been pointed out by all the social partners that this is contrary to the social clauses that we wanted to introduce for procurement under a recent law. Extending the rule that this contribution is not due is a sign of maladministration, of an Italy that is falling apart or, instead, of pure common sense and good governance? In our view, this extension was necessary in order to regulate a very sensitive sector, also for the social aspects and, therefore, to have defined it is and will be useful for everyone, business, work and institutions. The propaganda of opposition in these cases is reduced to the art of climbing on mirrors. The same applies to so many other measures, from those on defensive solidarity contracts to that which makes the extension of the Provinces' fixed-term staff applicable, to the extension of the school graduations, to those on fixed-term researchers at university, to the financing of local TV and radio, to the tactile museum. I quote, then, the many measures that concern local authorities, which I do not recall, or those on the Forces of Order and the Fire Department, on earthquakes and disasters of recent years, on the automatic exclusion of abnormal offers in procurement, on some targeted police stations in the railway field and in the environmental field, on the halving of sanctions SISTRI - I remember 2009 with a government of a political component that now criticizes them as much as we - on the deductibility of VAT for vocational training bodies. Even on Bagnoli I have heard criticism of the excess of regulatory intervention, ignoring that, when dealing with complex issues, one must not be afraid to adapt the instruments in progress. It is not a mistake to do so: it would not have done so. Finally, on party statements, the deadline for submitting statements was simply extended for 2013 and 2014 to June 2016. Those who fail to comply with this obligation will have a sanction. Those who complain, like the 5 Star Movement, consider that it is a norm not against someone, but in favour of transparency. It is true that on this decree-law the parliamentary work has been done almost exclusively to the House and this represents a limit, but, also in this case, we can say that it is due to the substantial obligation to proceed by decree-law on the extension of deadlines and to the crowding in the calendar of arguments to be faced in the Senate in the first two months of 2016. We remain convinced, therefore, that this is a useful measure for the country, also because we are all aware of the problems of the functioning of the public administration and the fact - almost all have ignored it - that it is working in concrete order to overcome them with the reform Madia, on which the Government is proceeding quickly with the legislative decrees of implementation, presented in these days to the Chambers. And on the legislative process, the constitutional reform itself, which will shortly be adopted, will promote both simplification and greater effectiveness of the measure itself. For these reasons, the Group of the Democratic Party, in a Parliament - I want to say to Senator Crimes - fully legitimized, until the end of the legislature - until proven otherwise, the constitutional legitimacy of the Parliament determines it not the 5 Star Movement, but the Constitutional Court that established it - will vote with full conviction in favour of the conversion into law of the decree-law to extend of terms, with all the positive modifications introduced, albeit to the above limits, in the parliamentary debate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u114	Colleagues, since the Conference of Leaders has established that the vote of confidence would begin at 6 p.m., I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.55 p.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.) We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u115	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 210 of 30 December 2015, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Esposito Giuseppe is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Esposito Giuseppe. SIBILIA, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - 6.25 p.m. - at 6.25 p.m.) - 18.45 -). The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Battista, Bencini, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Racchione, Cardinals, Casini, Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giorgi, Dirindin Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fasolo, Fatorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Finchiaro, Fissore, Formigoni, Fornaro, Fornaro, Franzo Gatti, Franzi, Franzi, Franzi, Franzi, Favero, Givero, Feveroli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Fin There are no senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidesi, Amoruso, Aracri, Augello, Peuricchio Bellot, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bignami, Bisinella, Blund, Boccardi, Bocchino, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Caridi, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Consiglio, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Anna, De Cristofaro, Gaettino Mapero, De Petris, De Pin, De Lombardi, Di Maggio, Donno Endrizzi Glanga, Fasano, Fattori, Fazzone, Ferrara Mario, Floris, Frocksia, Fuckos, Fuckosia, Fucksia, Gaettino, Maettino, Gambaro, De Gam. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 30 December 2015, n. 210, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 277 Senators voting 277 Majority 139 Favourites 155 Contrars 122]] The Senate approves. It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 210.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u118	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, on a point of order, I am now speaking with regard to the press and various communications agencies. Mr President, on the basis of that article, you consider that the texts are admissible. And since we will soon see Mr Boschi coming in and submitting a large amendment to you, I would like with you to consider whether that text is admissible or not, because it is not acceptable in relation to my assessments. Let us begin by saying that its admissibility must be assessed on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, but not only of the Constitution, which I believe should be the key to its decisions, and in particular on the basis of Article 72, where it is said that: Each bill, submitted to a Chamber, is, according to the rules of its Rules, examined by a Commission and then by the Chamber itself, which approves it article by article and by final vote. You will certainly say that we have already had a number of episodes in which legal texts have come to the House without the rapporteur. It has happened during this parliamentary term and in the previous one, but it has been forgotten that, whenever we came directly to this House, we were talking about texts that had already been examined by the other side of Parliament. In this case, this is completely different, as my colleague, Mr Giovanardi, has often said. In fact, a text has arrived in the House, which is called Cirinna, which, as far as I am concerned, can be a quisque de populo, because there were 14 texts, has not been given any mandate to the rapporteur, has come to the Chamber and, unlike the past, even if there are other precedents that go in a different direction, the Capigroup decided that this text was the basis on which the debate would take place. I recall that the Cirinna text was presented on 6 October; on 11 October Cirinna's own report on that text took place; after two days, the group leader decided that the text in question should go to the Assembly the following day, without a vote being held, but not even a debate. I believe that this, frankly, has very little to do with Rule 72. There have been regulatory forcings, but now we come to a subsequent constitutional forcing. On Sunday, the President-in-Office of the Council arrived and said: I am a terminator and I am tabling an amendment which is entirely a substitute. Frankly, I have doubts. I have doubts about what I had heard from the meeting of the Democratic Party Group, where we talked about freedom of conscience and the possibility of secret voting limited to certain choices. Perhaps for you the freedom of conscience and the secret vow correspond to the question of trust, because so you see the senators passing and, even, you see how they can be expressed with the facial mimic. But it wasn't just that meeting. I recall a conference of group leaders in which Minister Boschi spoke saying that the Government was completely unrelated to a parliamentary matter such as this and that the Undersecretary had spoken personally and not on behalf of the Government. But if that memory were not enough, the shorthand account of Mr Orlando's speech came to my aid, which, at its meeting on 10 February, said: The hope is that this work and this discussion will continue in the course of the votes, with the effort to recognize the part of truth that exists also in positions other than one's own. This invitation is not rhetorical, but is linked to the fact that, when politics is called to venture into such a delicate terrain that it calls into question consciences, that it sees different sensibilities expressed (...) and so on. Well, if sensitivity to freedom of conscience means asking for a vote of confidence, I wonder what we are talking about. Then Minister Orlando continued: The Government will not express a political assessment of the various amendments that will be brought to the discussion, except a technical assessment of some, when clearly not in conformity with European and constitutional jurisprudence. He will return to the House's assessment of the others. So, Mr President, either I remember badly or the stenographers were wrong, or here Mr Orlando or Mr Boschi is lying. Or, indeed, it is Minister Boschi who lies to himself. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] But when a government lies, and does so in the Assembly, it has to go home. However, the question of eligibility is another, Mr President. We have an amendment entirely replacing the text, which will be tabled, or at least that has been said. If the amendment is entirely a substitute for a text, there are precedents for entirely replacement amendments which have been tabled. When does this happen? On the law of stability, or on decrees-laws, therefore, on proposals of government initiative. If the amendment is a substitute for a text of parliamentary origin, that means that it is not an amendment, but it is a legislative initiative! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Quagliariello and Rizzotti]] Too bad - and here the donkey really falls and, Mr President, I ask you to pay close attention to this point: that Article 87 of the Constitution provides that the legislative initiative of the Government is not an end in itself, as may be that of the simple parliamentarians, but requires authorization from the President of the Republic for the presentation to the Chambers of the government's own drafts of law. About one o'clock: is that an amendment? I do not think we can call an amendment. Is this a legislative initiative? Yes, it is a legislative initiative. It is only that, with the trick of the amendment, one will be fooled what is a prerogative of the President of the Republic. But if it is not an amendment and if it is not a legislative initiative authorised by the President of the Republic, you, Mr President, cannot accept this text, because it is a scam. A scam: let's call things by their real name! Mr President, if the Government had wished, it could have written the text of a draft law and asked the President of the Republic for permission to present it. He then asked the Presidency to be able to link him to the one we are discussing and could have put his confidence in his own text. But not on a text that is being tabled in the form of an amendment! You, Mr President, showed a great deal of courage just yesterday, declaring that you are inadmissible with regard to the premissive amendments. A pronunciation which I personally considered to be late, but not in relation to the assessment of those who said that they could speak fifteen days ago; my lateness is linked to the fact that, on the same line, I would have considered the so-called Esposito amendment, tabled to the draft electoral law, completely inadmissible. In fact, of the two: an amendment is acceptable or not, regardless of the number of amendments tabled and certainly not because of the obstructionism, which, in the end, has not been seen. This time we are therefore faced with yet another tense entrance of the government. Mr President, I ask you to declare the amendment inadmissible and to whistle do so this time. I remember that once she resented a lot when someone appealed to her under the name of a not well-known referee. I ask you, Mr President, to recover what has been a gratuitous and undeserved offense to me and to prove that you are a real referee. As I come to the conclusion, I would like to remind the Government of an anecdote told by Minister Tremonti, which I amended because you consumed all the envelopes within a week. The good Tremonti said that when a President of the Council leaves, he delivers to the incoming Premier three envelopes containing three councils, each of which to be opened during a crisis. This time the envelopes are four. On the occasion of the first crisis the advice is to say that it is the fault of those who preceded you: this happened last week, when it was said that it is all the fault of Letta and Monti. The advice contained in the second envelope is to blame Parliament for the crisis: it has been said that it is the fault of the League, of Guy, Caio and Sempronio who have tabled too many amendments. The advice contained in the third envelope, which I added by amending the anecdote told by Tremonti, is to blame the third crisis on President Grasso, who is there on purpose. The advice in the fourth envelope is to write the envelopes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] I think it is time to make this point, because when you get to put confidence in such a measure, it means that you really have come to fruit. It is a sign, not of strength, but of weakness. We have virtually never considered measures, if not micro-laws, of parliamentary initiative and now that a serious bill is being discussed we must put trust because there are no numbers. The people have not voted for it, not even Parliament will vote for it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Bignami and Castaldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u121	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I too share the view that in a liberal democracy on measures of this kind, which concern conscience, the Commission must remain out of it. I was very pleased to learn that the Commission would abstain from any intervention, avoiding giving an almost ethical connotation to what we were producing. A different choice has been made: from abstention and freedom of conscience for all, in some way proclaimed by all the parliamentary groups, we have gone to the opposite extreme, that is to say to the vote of confidence on a measure like this in the matter of civil unions. It is something that recalls more regimes tending to be authoritarian, rather than liberal democracies. But until now, Mr President, we are in the area of political choices. Another thing is when this choice comes to impact on our parliamentary procedures and on the substance of our institutions. Mr President, I had appealed to institutional courtesy and asked for an answer to some of the comments I had made on the premissive amendments, referring both to the Constitution and to our Rules of Procedure. I can't help but thank you today because you have used this institutional courtesy, giving a probably late answer but still taking into account those arguments and, regardless of the fact that they largely adhere to some of the comments I had made, nevertheless you have exercised your role. I now ask you, Mr President, to raise a problem and to do so, I would like to ask you for only three minutes of attention to review with you the procedure of the measure in our examination. This measure entered the Commission a long time ago. Against a measure on civil unions there has been an obstruction in the Commission within and within what is permitted by our Rules of Procedure by some senators, by a small number of senators. Even in order to overcome this obstruction - which President Zanda reminds us very often - that measure has been withdrawn and replaced by another similar but not equal one on which the explanatory report was carried out in the Commission. At the time when the debate was to begin, President Casson took the registration to speak for the next day saying that the measure would be discussed but the next day, Mr Casson, there was no chance of doing so because the measure was incardinated directly to the House. We were in October and all this happened, if I am not mistaken, ten minutes or a quarter of an hour after the House had voted on the text on institutional reforms. It's been four months since then. There were no grounds for urgency. In January the text was brought to the House. A text, therefore, with a number that distinguishes him that, from a formal point of view, not only did he not have the debate on the amendments but he did not even have the general debate in the Commission. President Casson has rightly taken the list of Members to speak, but those people have not been able to intervene because of the fact that the incardination has obviously exhausted the procedure in the Commission. Now, a number of premissive amendments have been tabled on that text. One of these, in particular, called'superkangaroo', was intended to cause most of the amendments to lapse. As in the Commission, before the presentation of the second text, Mr Cirinna's colleagues who had blocked the amendments had withdrawn, even in this House at the time when the debate, in particular President Centinaio, opened, withdrew most of his amendments. So we have come up with a measure which, if I am not mistaken and you can correct me, Mr President, presented less than a thousand amendments and a premissive amendment which would have caused most of them to lapse. There has been a debate on this. Faced with the expression of the opinions of the different groups, a postponement of a week was requested, a time that would allow discussion and vote on all the amendments because no group said it wanted to obstruct the House. At the end of this week, even a little earlier, you gave your opinion on the premissive amendments, highlighting something that I personally agree with, namely that the number of amendments tabled is, however, something that needs to be taken into account. This is the only element that differentiates my reasoning from that of Senator Calderoli. Mr President, atomic weapons can be used if atomic warfare is carried out; but, if we go into combat with conventional weapons or slingshots, the use of the atomic bomb is absolutely not recommended and is also in some way immoral. However, in any case, that amendment would have compressed the debate on this measure. The House is now reopening and it is stated that the Government, as we hear and read, is about to table a large amendment, which sums up the matter in some way and therefore avoids, on another road other than that of the super-kangaroo (from the super-kangaroo to the maxi amendment, here is all too large, Mr President), that a debate can be held and that we can do what it would be desirable to do from the start, that is, that every senator should confront his conscience and vote on a limited number of amendments. But here and here too, Mr President, we are still in the area of political choices. But now I am asking you a problem that is both regulatory and constitutional. Article 87 of the Constitution reads as follows: The President of the Republic (...) authorizes the presentation to the Chambers of the Government's own-initiative drafts of law. In other words, if the government wants to present a bill of its own, it needs to ask for permission from the President of the Republic. Now, this major amendment which is being feared and which is on the verge of arriving is very different from the major amendments that we have known so far in this House. Apart from the comments made by the Constitutional Court on the major amendments in general, here we are dealing with a different species, let's say genetically modified; this maxi amendment is a sort of GMO. So far, the major amendments have been produced - Mr President, I would like to say that I am mistaken - either on projects already approved by a branch of Parliament or on projects approved by the Committees on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, taking up the text that has emerged from the Commission. I believe that you and your predecessors have certainly had the grace to point out, when examining the Stability Act, that what has been approved in the Commission must nevertheless be understood in the maxi amendment. To what did this shrewdness respond? However, that practice is anchored to a parliamentary process. On the other hand, the Cirinna bill, as far as I have said, has not been approved in any branch of Parliament, it has not been approved in a committee of merit (where neither has the discussion opened), it is not a bill of conversion of a decree-law and it is not a draft law of the Government. So, with all the evidence, the government is exercising the prerogative of cutting out a maxi amendment on a bill that has so far been the bill of a colleague and that has not had any time of discussion within this branch of Parliament. The Government can do this, but, according to Article 87, it needs the scrutiny of the Head of State, because the examination of the Head of State on the draft law of initiative of the Government is provided - I repeat - by Article 87 of the Constitution. Otherwise, we are faced with a completely new and completely innovative procedure, which, however - Mr President, I would like to put this aspect back to your reflection - leads to a substantial change in our Constitution. It will lead us to say that it is possible here to vote on governmental measures that have never passed the scrutiny of this House, that have not had a discussion and that are not authorized by the Head of State. We know, Mr President - you know and I know - that the Constitution of other countries provides for this, but not for our own. It is a substantial change, as far as I am concerned, that you know what the constitutional ancestors I am referring to are. It is a change that I may also like, but it is completely unrelated to the practice and letter of our Constitution. In other words, we are doing something which, in some way, proposes no longer to skip amendments, but to skip the scrutiny of this House more and more. I believe, Mr President, that you should reflect on all this and that you should give us an answer. Thank you for your kindness. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL), CoR and FI-PdL-XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u124	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have asked for action not only because I am convinced of some of the issues already raised by Senators Calderoli and Quagliariello, but mainly because I believe a lot in its function, a function which the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure assign to you because of the office you hold and which is neither more nor less than a development of what you have carried out throughout your life. You are today called to be a judge, to activate all interpretations of the rule of the Constitution and of the Rules of Procedure in order to address a matter of substantive law. One cannot stop at a formalistic aspect of Articles 8 of the Rules of Procedure and 87 of the Constitution, but basically it must take into account how the examination of this bill took place. I have been a member of the Commission and, as I have already said in this House, for thirty years, since Ersilia Salvato proposed the first draft law in this area, I have always believed in the need for a discipline that allows rights to those who do not have, homosexuals and heterosexuals. [[Applause from Senators Bonfrisco and Rizzotti]] However, in the Commission we have been prevented from having any capacity to speak. Senator Quagliariello is not a member of the Commission, so he was not aware of the fact that there were as many as three unified texts by the rapporteur, texts which changed from time to time from substance to substance. It is enough to go and take the second text to see how different it is from that which has arrived in this Chamber, which is a text that we have not discussed, completely different and which aggravated those aspects of compliance with the discipline of civil unions to marriage, aspects that were not so strong in the previous texts of Senator Cirinna. Now we have arrived in this House and I must say thank you aloud, because you had courage and not because, as Calderoli said, there were fewer amendments and so the so-called kangaroo amendment could be removed. No, you realized that the Marcucci amendment did not have any precepts in any of the provisions, but in each it needed another rule to be adopted. It was a programme rule and you teach me that, under the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, you would have declared it inadmissible even if I had presented it and for that I appreciate it. If that is the logic with which you are preparing for the evaluation of the amendments and the respect, not only formal but substantial, of the Rules of Procedure and of the Constitution, you cannot fail to pose today the problem of evaluating the new amendment that we hear said should be presented by the Government. What is it? Is that a different text? If it's a different text, it's a new bill. We have already seen four of Senator Cirinna; this is the fifth. And on the fifth immediately you put trust? You teach me that every judge has the freedom of conscience, has the freedom to evaluate the norms, but also the facts; then, how will it be possible to apply the freedom of conscience that the Democratic Party, my party and all the others have granted? He's not here. The text, which is different, would have needed the approval of the President of the Republic, being a new bill. You cannot assess it from the point of view of a normal maxi amendment for confidence. The normal maxi amendment takes account of what happened in the Commission, and then, in some respects, it changes it. But nothing has happened in this case in the Commission. In the Commission you have a text which has only been submitted and which has then been submitted to the House, so much so that it was the Conference of Leaders that chose the basic text. The basic text is a text that today - it is said by the Government - is no longer the text chosen by the Leaders, but it is an alternative text. The alternative text is a new bill, therefore, being a new bill, it must be authorized by the President of the Republic and the discussion must be reopened, because it is a new bill. Otherwise, having the knowledge and the will to arrive at a law on civil rights and civil unions, my amendments would be destroyed without having the opportunity to discuss them with respect to a text that is no longer the one for which I tabled the amendments. I may not be able to introduce them for a part. Your task, Mr President, is difficult - I admit - but precisely because it is difficult I am convinced that you, for your experience, for your history, will be able to carry it out at the highest level, which is not only formal. You will have to ask the Government to present a text and, unlike the other times, to be presented to you before it is declared: "I put the question of trust" (if they have not already given it to you). You must be able to assess the eligibility to which I referred. Mr Boschi, after you have declared eligibility for the presentation, may also, of course, ask for confidence; a confidence that runs counter to the debate, debate and freedom of conscience that has been attributed by the individual parties. I ask you: is it possible that Mr Boschi and the President-in-Office of the Council do not feel the need to present a text and give half a day of discussion so that an agreement can be reached? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Otherwise you do not guarantee the freedom of this House, you do not guarantee the democracy of our country. There's a rule in our country. Christian Democracy, when it was discussed about divorce and abortion, never put trust! This is a formidable mistake, because the institutional guarantee of freedoms, rights, cannot be premeditated and obscured exclusively to serve the anxiety of decision of a Head of Government. It's not that. I ask you then and I beg you to make an effort. You are the only one who can do this because you have the technical possibilities, you have the capacity to do so, you have the possibility to give a concrete assessment and to give back to this House its dignity. Otherwise we are witnessing, neither more nor less, than a denial of Parliament which even leads to the saying: But what am I doing in this Chamber if the possibility of dialogue is also conculcated? [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] the possibility to discuss, to discuss, to be able to say what our ideas are? We didn't get a chance. Mr President, I have been to the Congress of Criminal Chambers which was held recently in Verona. Do you know that magistrates (I could also name names) and lawyers when I said that the law we were discussing was only about homosexuals and not heterosexuals asked me if I was joking and mocking them because it would be unconstitutional? I do not want to go into these matters, I am simply asking you, Mr President, to apply a procedure which guarantees the substantive respect of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and which will return to Parliament, to the Senate, the function that belongs to it. If that is not the case, it will mean that we do not serve anything, but neither will its function be respected. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the senators Mauro Mario and Stefani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u127	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, Mr Calderoli, Mr Quagliariello and, now, Mr Caliendo have reminded us of Article 87 of the Constitution, which provides that the Government has the power to propose a legislative initiative to the Chambers, subject to the authorization of the President of the Republic. We have also been reminded of Article 8. I believe that the principle they have stated is perfectly in line with Article 87 of the Constitution. However, we must understand, Mr President, whether this reference to the Constitution is useful and necessary in this particular case. The reference to Article 87 of the Constitution is correct if the Government presents a new bill of its own initiative for which it requests permission from the President of the Republic. Beyond the last considerations of Senator Caliendo, who said he had met at the criminal chambers magistrates and lawyers who had pointed out to him a profile of unconstitutionality because civil unions would only concern people of the same sex and not even people of different sex, I remind the same Senator Caliendo and fellow magistrates and lawyers that he met that since there is a marriage that allows access only to people of different sex is realized... CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). That's a crude answer. Juridically crude! FALANGA (AL-A). ...a constitutional balance when there is a different institution that only allows persons of the same sex to access it. It seems to me that the constitutional but elementary importance is well understood both by Senator Caliendo, and by the magistrates and lawyers who contacted him. But I come back to Senator Quagliariello's question. You, Mr President, are required to examine this possible amendment, which I have not read yet, so these speeches seem to me to be preventive because they discuss something and recall the Constitution's rules on a draft law that is not yet available to read. How can I, Mr President, share or not what Senators Quagliariello, Calderoli and others say if I do not know this amendment that has been mentioned? I would also like to put myself on the same footing as prevention. What is a new bill compared to a previous one? A new bill is a measure that affects the heart of the previous one. Now, the Cyrinna bill, what did it foresee in its strongest substance? Recognition of the rights of persons who joined a civil union; public recognition of their union. Is this principle affected? Will the amendment confirm this possibility, will it confirm the recognition of these rights? This is the heart of the problem: whether or not it is a new draft law that has nothing to do with the Cirinna bill, which would lead - yes in that case - to the reference to Article 87 and the powers that it has under Article 8 of our Rules of Procedure. But I do not know, nobody knows this in this House, but I say: if the amendment has not affected in this direction, if it has not affected the ratio of the rule, which is the recognition of the rights of persons united in an institution called civil union, with legal consequences that I do not think are and can be called into question, if this heart of the problem has not been touched, we could have an amendment that goes to rearrange the order, the articulation. In short, if the substance remains that, we are faced with an amendment, and as such, therefore, acceptable, and certainly nothing would have to do with the remarks made by colleagues and the unnecessary references to the Constitutional Charter. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Calderoli, let us recall the Constitutional Charter when we really need it, otherwise it ends up being abused, and when we abuse the Constitutional Charter, we assume a behavior that is incorrect. So, Mr President, I say that we have to read this maxi amendment and see if the same goes to mean and regulate something other than a union between two people of the same sex. If so, I will rise and ask you not to admit it and to make sure that the Government presents it as a new bill, subject to permission from the Head of State. If, however, the heart of the problem, of the question dealt with by the Cirinna bill, has not been touched upon but has only been dealt with differently with some possible elimination, then we are faced with an amendment. What does "amendment" mean? It's a term that has as its basis "emendare", this means. How can we talk about something new if we start from that base and somehow change it in some respects? For these reasons, Mr President, I believe that this debate can end here. Let us finish here because no one can intervene because we do not know the content of the maxi amendment. That it arrives in the Chamber; so we read it and check if the nature, the ratio of the norm is seriously compromised compared to the bill Cirinna that we discussed. If you will allow me, Mr President, then I too will allow myself to speak again in order to make a modest contribution. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u130	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I will be very brief, because I do not want to give further time to the Government, which obviously does not yet have the text or other elements of the text ready. I would merely ask you to take seriously the objections that have been raised just now and that I will not repeat, so as not to go too far, because they are very technical. I would ask you to consider them, because if this law were to pass through this procedure, those who oppose its approval have practically already announced the line they will follow, to appeal to the Constitutional Court and to all possible courts. The risk is therefore to enact a law that will contain - in the procedure, but also in the substance - something that makes it vulnerable and that could be completely destroyed tomorrow. If this is what you want - that is, to create a fundamental law, on which we have spent years, with weak pillars, that can be cut down by these people who up until now have opposed and brought you down - go ahead along this road, but know that this way you make this law weak, vulnerable and probably already marked the way. Someone will intervene and try to destroy it, after you have approved it, if you come, one day, to approve it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u133	[[Comments]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, everyone has the right to speak in this House. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, Senator Falanga, if I had known about your dialectic ability, I would have chosen it to defend the Fini-Giovanardi law before the Constitutional Court. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, no personal references. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). I say that if the arguments put forward were those of homogeneity of argument, the Fini-Giovanardi law would still be in force, but the Constitutional Court objects otherwise. In this case, I just want to supplement what Senator Quagliariello said, with some things that perhaps the House does not know and not even the President. It is not true that we have wasted time in the Commission: we have been faced with texts that were constantly being amended and we have used no more than four weeks to start voting on the amendments. So why this delay? I inform the Assembly that on 29 July 2014, Deputy Minister Costa informed the Justice Commission that the Government intended to present a draft law on civil unions and, therefore, asked the Senate Justice Commission to suspend the examination of the unified text. It was 29 July 2014 and this is reflected in the Commission's report. On 30 July 2014, President Palma, taken note of the Government's request, proposed to suspend the examination of the measure, until the presentation of the government text, which was announced by Deputy Minister Costa. We have therefore waited until 28 October - the months of July, August, September and October have passed - and, at the end of October, since the draft government law has not been presented, the Commission has resumed its work. The government bill, which abyssed on October 28, 2014, then reappears in the form of the presentation of a maxi amendment of the government on which the question of trust is placed. Not only in 51 colleagues we have already spoken before the Constitutional Court, remembering that every bill must be examined by a Commission and then by the Chamber itself (and the bill signed by Cyrinna has not been examined by the Justice Commission), but Article 87 of the Constitution - I say this also for those who listen to us from outside - speaks of the Head to the State and says that he authorizes the presentation to the Chambers of the Government's own-initiative drafts of law. It is clear that this bill arrived in the Chamber is not from the Commission (which has never examined it), it is not from a rapporteur (who is not there), and on it the government has always returned to the Chamber: until yesterday it declared itself neutral with regard to this matter. The government had said that it would submit a bill, it made us wait four months but then it did not present it; nor did it present it to the Head of State, because it is the Head of State who must authorize the Government to submit a bill, dear colleague Falanga, otherwise the Government cannot submit it. This maxi amendment of the Government is then a bill that we see in the Assembly for the first time, which arrives in the Chamber and on which the Government puts the trust without having passed for the scrutiny of the Head of State. This is another incredible force of the Constitution: here the Constitution is torn apart in all the passages, getting to totally exonerate Parliament by an innovative procedure that even prejudices the functions of the Head of State. We will then be forced to supplement the appeal to the Constitutional Court with this incredible force. I would ask you to read the dozens of statements by members of the Government, according to which they would never and never have put the question of trust on such a matter. Mr President, it seems to me that these remarks are of absolute seriousness and that you must listen to those who call for this bill to be discussed in Parliament. The 500 amendments would be disposed of in two or three days and the Italian people would know that the passing law is the fruit of the work, of the passion of the deployments, of the different ideas that circulate in Parliament and not the imposition of a government that, in a corriscan or pirate way, wants to put trust on this bill. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u136	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, these are the facts and you have to make up your mind: this is now a "prenziential" Republic. You have allowed this hominid everything: regulations, undoing rules, method. This Senate has now died in its pride, in its action and in its freedom! If you do not have the courage to rebel and confront us, let us not waste time: let us all go home and introduce blind trust, without the text; let us vote now because no one will read it. I'll tell you what. Since we have already had issues of trust today, and "trust" would be a little sad, let's introduce blind trust so we have at least some fun and go home. [[Applause from the FI-PdL-XVII, LN-Aut and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u139	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to make a general argument, premissive of the reasoning that refers to the articles of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, also because they descend, as the advisers and the leaders of the Senate know very well, and also those who delight in studying parliamentary law, from what is referred to in doctrine as the so-called Bentham theory. I'm making a pretty quick premise. Bentham develops his thought at the turn of the 18th century and at the beginning of the 19th century; he does so in England because both there and in Germany there are many concerned about the import of French revolutionary instances and he does so in a more fortunate way than others because, before even being a theorist of parliamentary law - to say it with a modern diction - he is a philosopher. He raises the question of how to distinguish the capacity of the Government from the prerogatives of the people and, therefore, invents the amendment, which Mr Falanga has just defined in the same way. Amendment means proposed change to improve. In the distinction of powers, thinking that the government must have the prerogatives to govern, legislative production is attributed to the people and to the delegates of the people. President, I am following your reasoning. When you said at the informal meeting - you probably did so quickly because of a need for communication - that the premissive amendment could have been declared inadmissible because it did not have the aims of others compared to the previous ones and, that is, avoiding obstructionism, there was a difference in the approach to the opinion of the amendments, i.e. to judge them for the substance and for the purpose. The aim can be linked to the substance of the amendment or, as in the case you put forward at the informal meeting, it can be assessed regardless of the substance of the amendment itself: if the purpose of the amendment is to avoid obstructionism is fine; if there is no obstructionism, then it is not good. Even before we look at the purpose - unless its communication has been very brief - we should look at the amendment on the basis of the substance. According to the principles of Bentham, if the substance is too restrictive of the power proper to the parliamentary prerogative and, that is, that of building the amendment and the proposal to improve, at this point it ends up being inadmissible because it denies the parliamentary prerogatives. Our Constitution - we enter constitutional references - is built - born in 1946 after the dictatorial experience - with a remarkable parliamentary prerogative. Therefore, the reference to Article 77 too many times does not make good reference to the subsequent materiality of the Constitution. The materiality is confirmed by the amendment of the Rules of 1971 of the Chamber with the agreement between the President of the DC Group, Andreotti and the Communist Party Group. Many prerogatives were brought to the head of the Government and the first of all was the possibility of the Government to ask in any way the word and, that is, to overcome any parliamentary problem with the proposal and its activity. In this respect, which has to do with parliamentary prerogatives and aims, there is the principle that the aim cannot overwhelm the substance. The substance of the amendment, which is then the substance of Parliament, is the ability to propose to improve. What happens, too? If the Government now, because of the prerogatives that are given to it by the Rules of Procedure, takes the floor, submits the amendment and you accept the amendment, the principle that you have stated, even if not on the substance - which I would like you to look more closely at - overwhelms your intention with regard to the purpose. I would remind you that, when all the amendments and agendas are presented, you take the floor and say in this House that the amendments have been presented and give the floor to the Government to give its opinion. You should have communicated the inadmissible before the opinion. So let's say that, compared to an earlier stage, it is the next debate that allows you to judge. Therefore, it judges not on the basis of the purpose, but later - melius re perpensa - on the basis of the substance. So, if you have judged the amendment - I would not like to contradict the communication made at the Conference, but I believe you have done so in order to shorten the terms of understanding - I think you have judged the premissive more on the basis of the substance than of the purpose. In this respect, Mr President, we have the precedent of the Esposito amendment. When we held the debate on the Esposito amendment, you will remember that the Italian Association of Constitutionalists debated for a long time that this had been admitted, claiming that it was quite squeamish in relation to the principles of its own recalled in the 1976 text of parliamentary law of Mattarella which refers to the principles of Bentham. There it is said that the premissive amendment can only have meaning when it is explanatory to the guiding principle of the law, but not when it is descriptive. The famous precedent, which we assumed when we discussed and voted on the Espositum, was that of the European electoral law of 1979. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that that precedent has great significance, because the debate in 1979 was about how to write the electoral law for the European elections. The debate was whether to prepare and adopt a law that would provide for the vote of preference or if instead, given the size of the colleges, it was better to vote with the Senate system, which was that of the colleges. The European directive, in that case, was to adopt the voting system of preference, because that was a "more perfect" system. Let me use this expression, which is a contradiction in terms, in the sense that "perfect" is an adjective of a "market" type, for which, as with that system there is a better knowledge of candidates, then there is a greater democracy. So that principle was put as a premissive to say that the law was approved in this way to take account of a European directive. But there is no other precedent, because thirty-five years have passed without the adoption of other premissive amendments. The practice of kangaroos, of which President Mancino made limited use in the 1996-2001 legislature, was adopted by Pera with absolute sparingness, by Marini almost never and very rarely by President Schifani. The fact that we have re-adopted the practice of the premissive according to the precedent of 1979 had a meaning that, if I may say so with a bit of controversy, it should have been denied by the Democratic Party. In that case, in fact, it was necessary for the Democratic Party to refer more to Togliatti and Li Causi, who fought the vote of confidence for the fraud law, and not to De Gasperi. We have in fact the historical revolution for which the post-communists then adopted the De Gasperi system. Mr President, if we are to safeguard the substance, and not the purpose, we must at this point seek mediation and try not to overdo Parliament's prerogatives. If the choice is to improve the democratic structure, with the claim that the proposal of the so-called Cirinna law is improving, then the debate is if, for a supposed democratic improvement, we must instead over-compress our democratic prerogatives. Allow me here to quote Benjamin Franklin, who said that when the alternative is between security and freedom, we will end up not worthy of democratic prerogatives or democracy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u142	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I rise very quickly to say that I agree with all the considerations made by Senator Crimi, who pointed out that the way in which the work was carried out conceals a great scam, that is to say hiding the will not to make a real and serious law, pretending to discuss a measure and bringing it, also through this procedure (if it were true) to the approval, so as to constitute a serious precedent that, one day very near, can allow, from a legal point of view, its annulment by procedural defects. Beyond that, I have a request to make, Mr President. The subject is certainly important and sensitive, and I do not think it requires such a broad debate at this time, at horas, when we still do not know whether that text and that procedure will exactly come about. Mr President, thank you, of course, for your willingness at this stage, but I would ask you to have this debate more seriously and concretely only after the presentation of the text of the maxi amendment on which - on that point yes - I am asking you for the maximum technical and constitutional depth, as well as the correctness of the relevant technical report. Having this debate now seems to me to be a little inappropriate. I would therefore ask you to ensure that the groups have the debate on this subject, perhaps even with the anticipation of a single intervention for each group, but only after the text of the maxi amendment of the Government has been received.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u145	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, there are many suggestions made during the debate. I believe that there are two aspects to this debate: the political and procedural issues. Clearly, no one has been able to demonstrate from the procedural point of view that the process that is being followed violates Article 72 or 87 of the Constitution. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] We are precisely in the legislative process in this House, at the stage at which an amendment from the Government is announced. Until proven otherwise, the Government has the right and full right to table amendments in the legislative process. [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is an amendment and not a new draft law; it is not the scope of the amendment that decides, but the stage in which the act is brought in here. At this point, to think that the exercise of the prerogative of the Government is a coercion means to force the rules to prevent the legislative process from coming to an end. [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Because the suggestion that has been advanced... AIROLA (M5S). It's shameful! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please. The debate has so far taken place in an orderly manner. AIROLA (M5S). We could have voted for it! It's a shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order. [[Live Senator Airola's comments.]] I would also ask you not to make applause which is unconfirming. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] These are sarcastic and ironic applauses. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Applause to the President! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u146	I'll put that in that category, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u147	Colleagues, let Senator Pagliari speak. You have all spoken and the debate that is taking place is very interesting. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] AIROLA (M5S). It is because we have to wait for the maxi amendment: that is why! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, what did I just say? AIROLA (M5S). We want to see the lights light up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Pagliari, resume your intervention. Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, if there is a force of parliamentary democracy, it is all a suggestion. How better is the parliamentary model represented than when the government comes before Parliament and, assuming its responsibilities, asks whether it can still continue to govern or not? [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Crazy! Mr Pagliari (PD). The node is all here because, when there is the transformation of a bill of parliamentary initiative into a bill that the government assumes as a fundamental issue, the political question decays. And, in the face of the issue of the recognition of the rights of civil unions and cohabitations, we see who is concerned about implementing Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution and who is not concerned about this, but just wants to prevent the adoption of this bill, because after thirty years there will be those who will give recognition to these rights. [[Applause from Senator Cociancich. Comments of Senator Giarrusso]] And, therefore, there will be those who will ascribe this result and prove to be able to govern, to know how to deal with problems and to give answers. That's all the problem is. There is no serenity in the parliamentary dialectic to deal with the speech and get to the definition of the law, because the concern is that there are those who... [[Protests of Senator Volpi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u148	Senator Volpi, I'm calling you back to order. You have spoken and expressed all your opinions. You can't interrupt a colleague who's talking.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u149	Please, Senator Pagliari. Mr Pagliari (PD). The concern is that there are those who manage to bring about the recognition of civil unions and cohabitations and the fact that a Government, at this point in the parliamentary process, takes full responsibility and places trust in a bill implementing Article 2 of the Constitution can only be a source of pride for those who belong to this majority. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u152	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Mr Pagliari almost gives me tenderness. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and the Senators Giovanardi and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u153	Senator De Petris, no personal references. I know it's a noble feeling, but you don't make personal references of any kind.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u154	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). There's nothing personal about it, ma'am. It gives me tenderness because coming here and trying to prove the thesis that the idea that there is a conculcation of parliamentary prerogatives is just a vague suggestion, frankly... President, I fully agree with what Senator Bonfrisco said. In fact, we should hold this debate - and I also ask you to be able to give us access to the text - at the time when the major amendment will be tabled. And then we will see whether this is not an amendment that the Government has the right to present at any time, but a new text itself, or an old text with changes. We do not know that, and this will prove that, within an initiative, all of us in Parliament, there is an intervention. And we must not repeat to you why it is really incredible in this case to use the instrument of trust. Now, since I do not want to wait another half hour for the text to be ready, so that the Government can also work peacefully, I would ask you, Mr President, to be able to hold the debate at the time when the maxi amendment will be tabled. We must also have time to examine it. These are very sensitive issues because, with a changing line, it can actually change everything we have discussed for days and days.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u157	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Two per group? FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the comments made by my colleagues, first by Mr Calderoli, then by Senator Quagliariello and also by the other speakers in the debate. My impression - and I will try to show why - is that these interventions certainly have a political value, but they are absolutely irrelevant to judge the process as unlawful or even dangerous, both from a constitutional and regulatory point of view. [[Comments of Senator Giarrusso]] I will try to argue and explain why. We are discussing a parliamentary matter, which, as such, is being examined by this House, which concluded the general debate and was close to voting on the amendments. GIARRUSSO (M5S). President, wasn't that one for the group? FINOCCHIAR (PD). This matter is in the government's readiness to submit a major amendment. And it is not because I say so... GIARRUSSO (M5S). President, wasn't that one for the group? FINOCCHIAR (PD). Excuse me, colleague Giarrusso, do you mind? GIARRUSSO (M5S). No, but since it was one for Group... Senator Giarrusso, I run the debate. Thank you. GIARRUSSO (M5S). In fact, I'm addressing you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In fact, you don't have to interrogate. GIARRUSSO (M5S). I would like to know, Mr President, whether more than one per group can be spoken. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I gave Senator Finocchiaro the floor and I'll get her to talk. Please, Senator Finocchiaro. GIARRUSSO (M5S). I would ask you to speak too, Mr President. FINOCCHIAR (PD). What are the conditions under which, on a subject under consideration by the Assembly, the Government can put a vote of confidence on a major amendment? Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Where is he? FINOCCHIAR (PD). If we refer to the Rules of Procedure, we know that there is a specific exclusion that concerns regulatory changes. But the only criminal on the basis of which to assess whether the Government can or cannot, through the form of the maxi amendment, pose the question of trust is that the Government considers essential that matter for the implementation of its own program of. And, in this case, there is an absolute correspondence between the subject matter and the government program. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). But where is this written? FINOCCHIAR (PD). It is written in all texts of constitutional law, in the first volume. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Repetti.]] Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). But where is it in the Rules of Procedure? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, please let me intervene. You are also a Vice President and please cooperate with the Presidency. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). What's the norm? Tell us the norm! FINOCCHIAR (PD). Moreover, since it is, as in our case, a parliamentary Republic, the Government puts the vote of confidence on a matter, considering it essential to implement its programme, with the extreme gesture that our Constitution, which describes a parliamentary Republic, the Government can carry out, namely to ask the question of trust; confidence that can be rejected by Parliament, with the consequent loss of the survival of that Government. Moreover, I would like to say that the recent and less recent history of the Italian Parliament has many times experienced the presentation of a vote of confidence on matters which were not hesitated by the Commission in accordance with the ordinary procedure, i.e. on draft laws arrived in the Chamber without a rapporteur. It does not at all point to the fact that it was originally a draft law of parliamentary origin or a draft law of government origin, because precisely what we need to have regard to is that it is a matter at the object of this House, as in our case. The argument that in this case it would be a bill - a very brilliant argument, first made by Senator Calderoli and then taken up by Senator Quagliariello - is frankly an intelligent finding, but I would say that it is more a rhetorical expedient than a constitutionally sustainable motivation. Otherwise we should say - and we say so in fact - that all the major amendments are actually masquerade draft laws and, because they are maximmments, and therefore totally legitimate, it is obvious that it is not necessary, as is necessary for the government drafts, that there is the scrutiny of the President of the Republic; and this is all the more so because the matter is already the subject of Parliament's attention, in which there are, from the President of the Senate onward, guarantee bodies that can detect profiles of unconstitutionality of the matter - but it is not our case - since it is to this test of constitutionality that Senator Calderoli referred to when he requested the signature of the President of the Republic on the text. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). The amendment has arrived and, therefore, it can also stop. FINOCCHIAR (PD). It seems to me, therefore, that colleagues are really confusing, skilfully of course, and intelligently, procedural profiles with profiles of political opportunity, on which we can naturally get passionate, but which do not have any relevance with regard to the legitimacy of the procedures that we are observing. Finally, to Senator Bianconi, who complained how this became a presidential Republic, I would like to remind you that there is no vote of confidence in the presidential Republics. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Repetti]] BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Prenzidential!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u160	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am surprised at this debate because what has happened is very simple: Senator Calderoli made a very precise and detailed point of order, on which she must, of course, express herself. And we expect from him an expression rather than interventions by senators who belong to the majority, of which we do not understand either the starting point or the point of arrival of the reasoning, except to take time to give the Government to agree behind the scenes for a maxi amendment that is not yet there. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Bignami]] In fact, we have learned one thing, Mr President. From Senator Pagliari we have learned that it is a new bill - he said before and the shorthand report will report it - and from Senator Finocchiaro we have learned that it is part of the government program. At this point, of course, it is a political question: it is a question of whether this government programme is that of the majority of the PD, the minority of the PD, the majority of the NCD, the minority of NCD, the new majority of AL-A or of which other offals of the new and old majority of the Renzi Government. Otherwise, that's all you can tell. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u161	Thank you, but the contribution to the debate must be accepted by everyone, especially by the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u164	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, we would like to understand. The Democratic Party says in this House that the subject, the maxi amendment, is part of the government programme. Yet there is the major shareholder of the Executive, Alfano, who dictates the rules and says for months that the matter of civil rights of LGBT is not part of the government program. You should decide what the programme is. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , unless it is to stay in your armchairs as much as possible, and then you try somehow to seek mediation to keep the government from falling. If this is the program, they should say so. But let us not say that the maxi amendment is intended to give civil rights to the citizens of this country, because we gave civil rights to them in the Justice Commission by voting on the bill and we voted on it, Mr President. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This downward compromise, this market on the people's side, is to remove rights that we already recognised in the Commission as justice. We already recognized them and they take them off here. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So don't come and talk about the program. Do not talk to me about freedom and citizens' rights. This is just a matter of continuing a patchy government action in some way, as it is. No, Mr President, not on the people's backs, not on the people's backs! I would like to address you, Mr President. This is particularly serious, because it completely upsets the legislative process. It has already been exposed, much better than I can do, by other colleagues. But it is in its role to protect the Constitutional Charter, which cannot be altered in such a way. That amendment approves a different and different law from that which this Senate, with the Justice Commission, wanted to adopt, Mr President. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u167	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will be very brief because I do not want to help the melina to arrive at the maxi amendment and I have nothing to add to the arguments, which I fully agree with and seem to me to be final, in particular Senator Caliendo and others who have spoken before. I'd just like to point out one fact. I arrived at the shooting of this late session because I was out for a medical examination. Coming from Piazza delle Cinque lune, where you could not walk, with the intention of entering the Senate from Piazza Madama, after seeing people who manifested - I imagine - about the measure under consideration, to avoid walking among them - certainly not out of fear, because, thank God, I did not - I turned along Via Santa Giovanna d'Arco. Despite this, a gentleman told me: "Senator, get out of here because you risk it." To which I replied: Here we are all free, we are still a democratic Republic and everyone is free to do what he wants and I walked through Via Santa Giovanna d'Arco to enter the Senate by San Luigi de' Francesi. At that point, a group of gentlemen shouted at me about the footsteps behind me - I might say - of a sexist nature. I would point out this episode, which does not add or remove anything from the arguments, both of merit and method, just because, if it had happened to others, it would have been a tragedy and we would hear asking for the most deadly sanctions against the perpetrators of threats against a Senator of the Republic. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups and Senator Giovanardi]] Let's leave it alone, but be clear that these episodes are still not tolerable and to be exploited, when it ever happened - but never happened - something reverse. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u168	Senator Calderoli, I took note of your reference to Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, on which a wide-ranging debate opened. As you know and as you yourself have said, the Presidency considers the texts to be admissible. Moreover, the text to which you refer is not yet submitted to the Presidency itself, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, but also in the light of practice. There are several precedents of draft parliamentary initiative laws on which the Government has decided to put the question of trust, starting from the 11th legislature (Government Ciampi), on the appointment of the Board of Directors of the RAI; then, in the 12th legislature (Government Dini), on the services of public utility; continuing in the examination of the precedents, I am sure that you will remember, because you were then Minister for the simplification of the fourth Berlusconi Government, that even under that government in the last legislature, twice, the question of trust was raised on entirely substitute amendments, which included parliamentary initiative texts; on 9 March 2010, on the bill on the matter of legitimate impediment; on 28 July 2011, on the so-called long process of initiative of Mr Lussana and others; finally, also in this legislature, the Chamber, on the electoral law and, on the Senate, on the bill concerning the street murder. GIARRUSSO (M5S). The shit happened! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having said that, no rule or principle that can be deduced from the Rules of Procedure of the Senate gives the President of the Assembly the power to mayor, not even in terms of compatibility with the constitutional dictation, the content of proposals that the Government presents in order to verify the existence of the trust relationship. The statements made by some senators are justified on the basis of the innovative nature of the government amendment with respect to the draft law of parliamentary initiative, not subject to the constraint provided for in the draft law of government initiative to the prior authorisation by the President of the Republic. But these remarks touch on aspects that, as with the rewordings requested during the examination of measures, the opinions expressed, the indications or further new amendments, always formulated by the Government, belong to profiles of content, with respect to which the President of the Senate has no power, where the same Executive assumes the political responsibility to condition its existence to their approval. TAVERNA (M5S). That's not true! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This does not mean that statements of a procedural nature or of substance, separately or jointly considered, may be subject to verification by other powers of the State in accordance with the prerogatives conferred on them by the Constitution. In fact, there are countless precedents of legislative texts approved by Parliament that, both before the promulgation and after the entry into force of the law, have been undertaken on the basis of assessments of constitutional incompatibility not only in terms of substance, but also of legislative procedure contrary to that provided for in the Constitution. In such cases, certainly, the Presidents of this House were not, as it were, distracted but objectively unable to assume powers other than their function, which are exercised by the organs of the State responsible for this at stages other than that of the approval of one of the branches of Parliament. [[Senator Calderoli points out that he wants to intervene.]] I had to do so as an answer to the broad debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u169	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2081, 14, 197, 239, 314, 909, 1211, 1231, 1316, 1360, 1745, 1763, 2069 and 2084. He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u170	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorized by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of trust... [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Bravo! GIARRUSSO (M5S). Traitors! Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. ...on the adoption of the amendment that I am about to table, entirely replacing the articles of draft law No 2081.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u171	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the amendment, which is entirely a replacement, tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, I transmit the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission so that, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it will inform the Assembly of the financial coverage profiles. I therefore call upon the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 20.23 a.m. and resumed at 21.31 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u172	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the maxi amendment entirely replacing the draft law on civil unions. The debate will take place tomorrow morning, after the opinion of the Budget Committee on the financial cover profiles. Irrespective of the time when the debate begins, this will end at 5.20 p.m. when the explanations of vote begin. The timing of the speeches will be organised accordingly. It has been established that the call is scheduled at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u175	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking not because we have to vote on a timetable, but because it remains in the proceedings of this House, because it is an important law, discussed and which will continue to have the country discussed, with those who will be satisfied with one verse and those who will not be satisfied with another. We come to this final crux of the debate and I will not retrace the whole story out of respect for ourselves, given the time and given that many things have already been said, as the Commission has not been able to examine the text. A text arrived that first came out on the site of the "Corriere della Sera" and then was distributed in the Conference of the Leaders. It will be said that in the era of computers just one click is enough so that any employee, who typed the text, can hijack it. For pity's sake, I realize the ease of the gesture, but I detect it. So much so that you, Mr President, kindly, immediately after this fact has been observed, have made sure that the members of the Conference of Leaders distribute the text, so that at least there would be a deferred direction in the knowledge of the text. Unless the "Corriere della Sera" is not the Official Journal, but is not yet an approved law, the text we are dealing with is part of the most parliamentary acts. At the Conference of Group Leaders - I say this because it remains in the proceedings of the Assembly - the requests of many Groups were to be able to bring in all the Senators of their Group for the maximum twenty minutes that the practice and regulations provide. From the calculation that had been made there would have been a debate of thirty-seven to thirty-eight hours, including explanations of vote, which would have brought us to the days of Friday or Saturday. Then, compared to this thirty-seven to thirty-eight-hour theoretical space, you said you'll call her tomorrow at 7:00. Tomorrow the sitting begins at 9.30 a.m., admitting that the Budget Committee is in an hour's time to express its opinion. However, although I have not yet been able to examine the text because it has been distributed to us in real time, I am told that there are many changes and situations to be verified and evaluated. These are exceptions that we reserve the right to make tomorrow, after we have read and compared the texts with knowledge of the facts, because now I should only develop the first considerations of some of my colleagues who had the opportunity, while we were in a meeting, to examine the 'Corriere della Sera' or the papers he had. That is why we shall be talking about it tomorrow. If at 7 p.m. tomorrow you will be called, calculating an hour and forty minutes for explanations of vote, virtually the debate will arrive until 5.15 p.m. Let us assume that the budget committee will end at 11 a.m.: from 11 a.m. to 5.15 p.m. we will have about six hours of debate, obviously doing, as is normal a sitting without interruption, as is absolutely logical on such days. We have therefore moved from a request of thirty-seven to thirty-eight hours to six hours of debate, after there has been confidence, after there has been no debate in the Commission, after the texts have been changed (and we still have to see what has been done), after all the debate, which is already in the proceedings and I do not repeat it, on whether or not this type of amendment is possible. In this regard, we also heard Senator Finocchiaro say that it could be done by regulation. My question - and I apologise for interrupting it, but it was an interruption that is part of the dialectic of an Assembly - was to know what the rule of the Rules of Procedure was and the senator replied that it is written in the books. There are many books, I too have many, and I have read enough; there will be discussion books on the Constitution and also the same constitutional reform that we have approved, for government programmes, provides for procedures of a certain kind, but today this rule in the Rules of Procedure is not there. And I challenge Senator Finocchiaro, so he can reflect and document himself during the night, if he has this rule to indicate it and not simply refer to books, because there are so many books and each of us can bring his and in the matter of constitutional law the debate, fortunately, is rich and plural. I think this way of proceeding, frankly, unacceptable, because we could also vote on Friday or Saturday - Senator Bonfrisco also proposed, at some point, to vote on Sunday, since there is no problem of the weekend or the free hours - giving us the opportunity to debate. I believe that Senator Zanda and whoever imposed this method of proceeding made a further mistake compared to an important issue for all points of view, as well as for those who wait for the recognition of the coexistence of homosexual people, which for the Forza Italia Group has always said that it can be regulated. As for the other aspects, we believe that this text does not clarify them sufficiently, because there may be no longer Article 5 on stepchild adoption, but this, if it were no longer foreseen in that way could be included in the measure in another way, but we will discuss this tomorrow after reading the text. It seems to us that this way of proceeding is wrong. It is true that the country is waiting. Among other things, I wonder, as Senator Malan said, why today we were allowed to block the access road to the Senate. Days ago - I say it in memory to Minister Alfano, begging his group colleagues to report to him - it was prevented the bathing enterprises from meeting in Piazza delle Cinque Lune and it is not that the beach businesses are dangerous. However, those enterprises were driven to the square of the Holy Apostles - I have all the documentation of the correspondence of the prefecture - while other organizations, which are evidently more respected or have more rights than others, today have also been able to block the road or threaten the senators who came to the Chamber. The right to manifest is sacrosanct, but they all do. It is not that some must go to the square of the Holy Apostles and others can block the Renaissance course. The subject is discriminatory: it becomes a form of heterophobia or balnearophobia, if they were angry with the beaches that were perhaps considered dangerous. I will propose a law against balnearophobia because they were prevented from manifesting in the square of the Five Moons. It is wrong what we are doing, Mr President, and it leaves a heavy mark on the debate that, if it had ended with a little more time, it would not have deprived anything of what will then be discussed in the House. And I think, if this law comes to the bottom, it will continue to argue in the country, because it is not a pretentious argument. We do not want to deny anyone's rights, but we talk about parenthood, the relationship between parents and children, adoptions and children's rights. These aren't trivial matters. To liquidate everything tomorrow, from the 38 hours requested to the five hours of discussion, is a truly prevaricating way of closing this debate in a presumptive way, because it will exacerbate the confrontation even more. This I wanted to say at this time of the evening, not because this changes the destinies of the country, but because everyone is in here also to respond to his conscience and his parliamentary mandate. I believe that ending this debate will not allow us to deal properly and in line with what the country is discussing this important issue, which we could have considered in other ways, discussing about 500 amendments. Senator Zanda, we have made laws that have led to thousands of votes and we have survived an exercise in democracy. It is better to have a few more hours in Parliament and thousands of votes than to be able to do so at all, because this is not democracy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u178	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, allow me to thank you for your commitment at the Conference of Leaders to find a solution that would guarantee the majority to play their part and the opposition to exercise its role. However, the accounts are soon made and you can do them better than I do, Mr President, because you have certainly read before us this text which consists of 12 pages. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely not; I received it with you in the group leaders. BONFRISCO (CoR). I was hoping at least you could read it a few minutes before we did. I am even more sorry because, as some of my colleagues have pointed out, it was already on the pages of the website "www.corriere.it". What do you want, it's the miracles of technology! We must be able to stay in this This House until the last day, which I hope will come soon, ensuring that this House's procedure is always efficient and effective, as is said in the jargon, so that no one can say that such an important law has been passed with special procedures and procedures and - I think - absurd. Where's the nonsense, ma'am? In the effort made by everyone, by you first, to find a balance. Finally, count on your hand, the time of the general debate, on a text that is 'to take or to leave', because the amending capacity fails with the adoption of this procedure, winds up, according to the majority's direction, in those few hours tomorrow between the end of the work of the Budget Commission, which will express itself for the profile of Article 81 of the Constitution, which is duly provided, and the final vote that has been determined by you, despite a previous proposal that saw us express the final vote on Friday, tomorrow afternoon at 7 p.m. I do not have much to add on this subject. I think it's clear to everyone that it's not just a force, it's not just a choke, it's the need to apply a method, the one that has already been applied on other occasions, that like in other cases - and I want to remember only the mistakes and the messes of the law of stability - produces a law that comes out badly. You will see, Mr President, that despite your efforts this law is already dead, because of the procedure and the content, that we are now only briefly beginning to read, but that we will be able to assess even better tomorrow morning, in the light of the remarks made by the Budget Commission. Having said that, I am about to free the House at least from the way I call it obscure, because the risk was to go and vote again at night. At night the law of stability was voted, at night the electoral law was voted, at night the constitutional reform: it seems that this is a night Parliament, rather than a regular and normal Parliament. I ask that at least there be evidence and transparency for all citizens, in the phase of explanations of vote, of live television, to allow everyone to know the truth, the true and real positions of all groups. I would like to stress again and, if you, Mr President, will allow me, as I hope I will, as anyone in this House, any senator and any senator, had wished to take part in the vote on this law, bringing his opinion and his contribution, fully adhering to it or not, will not be able to do so, because the vote of confidence in the Government prevents anyone who, on the other hand, would have liked to take part in a legislative process to give our country a good law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u179	In the absence of any comments to the contrary, the Presidency will ask RAI for direct television for explanations of vote. If there are no comments, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u182	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, as you rightly said, since there is not a vote, I am speaking only to leave our opinion to the record, which we have already expressed at the Conference of the Leaders. First of all, I would like to express to my fellow Members my disappointment at the outcome of the meeting we took part in. It is also decided that, instead of handing over the document on which trust was sought, technically decently, to the Leaders, for the sake of respect for the Conference of Leaders, it is given first to the newspapers and while it is on line and on all the media, we, the Leaders, find out about it by the militants, by the people who write to us, saying that we had promised to send them the document and instead found it first in the newspapers. This is bad, Mr President, because it means that, once again, this Government has no respect for this House. Mr President, once again I would like to remind you that, if it is true that we are appointed and that the electoral law did not allow us to express preferences, it is also true that we are elected by the people. This House has popular representativeness, while the President-in-Office of the Council has not voted for it! [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] No one wants it anymore, and we will be happy to do so when we go to discuss the famous referendum on constitutional reforms, for which our President-in-Office of the Council has put his stay in the government on the table, saying: Vote for me or send me home. We'll do everything we can to send him home. Returning to the subject of my speech, as my fellow Group presidents have said before, what is happening is bad, because, since the government has put the question of trust in a parliamentary act, we have asked for the possibility of having our fellow Senators talk about trust and the subject, we have asked for the possibility of intervening after the majority has done apple and obstruction and for a week the Democratic Party has done self-obstruction, because it had to agree with the New Right Centre. I smile when I hear Minister Alfano say they brought home the result. Minister Alfano was not there, but our NCD colleagues were present at the family day and remember the words of those on stage. In here there is the betrayal of those who promised certain things to Italian families and will certainly vote for the trust, betraying - I repeat - the families that were in the square that day. At this point, the question we ask ourselves is: what are we doing here? Why are we here? Doing what? To see the theater of the Democratic Party, of the New Right Centre, of Verdini and of all these people who will vote for the confidence on a measure that, without forcing and the melina of the Democratic Party, could have been taken home quietly? I say one thing, which I will repeat in the next few hours: publishing the content of the texts that we exchanged is politically and ethically incorrect. Senator Cirinna, or who for her, should not leave because she will not be approved of what she promised the rainbow families, should resign because of the political unfairness she has shown towards a colleague with whom she had faced a measure and who had told her that she would do anything to ensure that the measure was approved. One must resign and go home for these things and not because a provision is not approved. It is shameful and I will tell you tomorrow in this House, when we are having an explanation of vote on live television, because Italians need to know certain things. I repeat: it is shameful. Mr President, I shall conclude. We cannot ask for more time, because at this point it is impossible and unthinkable. The Conference of Leaders has decided to go in a certain direction. However, I am happy with something that I will repeat tomorrow; and that is that, once again, Renzi wanted to put us in the foot and, once again, with this act he managed to piss everyone off: he pisses off the rainbow families, who are seen taken away what you promised them, and pisses off the families who participated in the family day. Once again Renzi managed to make everyone angry: goal achieved. Mr President, I would like to tell you to call the senators and vote in this way immediately, politically speaking, we will open the bottle of champagne because, once again, you have managed to mess with your hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u185	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, over the last few years we have seen many examples of the issue of trust, even in cases where it was embarrassing, such as the electoral law. All we needed was confidence in constitutional reform. I spare you once again to tell you what I think I have put trust in a bill that, by recording for its nature, as we have seen during the debate, very different positions, could only be parliamentary. Parliament and individual senators had to assume their responsibilities. In this way, behind the trust everyone then repairs. It is another kind of secret vote, because the question of trust has been raised and we must vote in favour of it. This will do further damage to the country. However, contrary to Senator Centinario, for the opposite reasons, we consider it serious that stepchild adoption has been removed and we will now examine in detail the maxi amendment, especially since so many hopes have been raised. I am very sorry that once again this Parliament - and this will also happen, Mr President, and you are very sensitive in this regard - will not assume the responsibility to decide and we will leave it to the judges, in the specific case of stepchild adoption, to take responsibility for them. I am very keen on the separation of powers, and I am therefore stigmatizing that we are accusing the judiciary of supplementing it, because we have done so all these years, but we do not assume our responsibilities. Among other things, as you can see, there are many pronouncements now, and I think there is a rather pressing request from the judiciary, or at least there was, for the legislator to finally take a position, but this will not happen with the vote of this maxi amendment, and I believe that the same repertoire will be proposed to the House because the bill will also be armored there, perhaps with confidence. There would have been a need for further study. However, my group did not seem to have asked how much time, we had asked for a time, in our opinion absolutely reasonable, i.e. about two hours, and now we are in a very different situation. As far as we are concerned, we regret that, because the Federal Council of the League is expected to meet, we could not also work on Fridays, because I believe that it would have been appropriate to give absolutely everyone the opportunity to express themselves. The regret is that, once again, we could proceed in excess, because we could sacrifice the Sabbath, and instead we will find ourselves contingent, in fact, also on trust. Honestly, I haven't seen this happen yet, but now we've seen this, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u188	Mr Albano (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today marks the 26th anniversary of the death of Sandro Pertini, our beloved President of the Republic, the Partisan President who has gone through almost all the decisive moments in the history of the Italian twentieth century. Of him we all remember his shining example of obstinacy, pride and rigour in carrying forward ideas of freedom and solidarity. He was ready to face the prison repeatedly, as Nenni ironized about it, and a death sentence during the fascist dictatorship; he was ready to run more than a danger for the ideas of the socialist party to continue to live, ready to take huge responsibilities at the dawn of liberation. It was a sharp figure in many ways and, at the same time, deeply bound and immersed in the Italian people. He had the enormous merit of bringing citizens closer to the palaces of the institutions with gestures of great humanity and piety, giving us a new image of the highest office of the State. If we think of him, memory resorts to his gesture: from kissing the national flag to the hands of the coffins in homage to the victims of terrorism like Guido Rossa, to his ability to establish an emotional contact with the Italians. A popular figure because always among the people. And in these years when the temptation of anti-politics is strong, his figure must be a constant example to us with his uprightness, his struggle for freedom, his humanity. May his lesson be a guide for all of us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u189	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-581.ana.u190	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 25 February, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.56 a.m.
