ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:37 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Di Giorgi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 7 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u8	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would simply like to ask that, in the passage of the Minutes in which I have been quoted for the first time, the words 'intervene' be replaced by the words 'asks to intervene' or 'attempt to intervene', because in reality I was unable to speak at the last sitting on the subject referred to in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u9	This will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting. I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u11	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9.41 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u14	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, our Group is in a bit of trouble with the work of this House and the Commission. At noon we asked for and obtained a suspension for a group meeting, but at this moment came the communication of the convocation of the gathered Commissions, 1a and 4a, for the discussion of the bill on the State Forestry Corps, and that of the assembled Commissions, 4a and 3a, for the draft framework law on international missions. We have tabled amendments to these measures, which, if we are absent, will lapse. It doesn't seem like a proper way to work and meet us. Honestly, I do not understand all the disaster caused by the changes in the timetable for yesterday's work and the acceleration of the examination of the draft framework law on international missions: the draft framework law could be easily examined next week and would not change anything at all. So I ask you whether it is possible at least to detort the Commissions and reconvene them at a time when our Group can be present, because otherwise it becomes impossible for us to do our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u15	Senator Marton, we have accepted your request, which also coincided with the request made by another parliamentary group: what you have just asked for is the sensitivity of the presidencies of the individual Commissions, which as you know have complete autonomy. I think the best thing to do is to talk to the presidencies of the two Commissions and point this out. Subsequently the same Commissions are convened to address other topics and therefore the time already established could be used.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u18	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, I have heard the remarks made by Senator Marton and I am only speaking to inform you that I have just given the official of the 1st Commission, who I chair, who would have sent that communication to the official of the 4th Commission and its President, that, should the sitting of the House be interrupted before 12 noon (which will happen) for those few minutes that are necessary for the two Commissions meeting to be convened at the end of the sitting of this House and not at 12 noon, in conjunction with the Assembly of the 5 Star Movement.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u21	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, this applies to the 1st and 4th Commissions when examining the draft law on the State Forestry Corps. However, there is also the convening of the 4th Commission to examine the draft framework law on international missions. The same problem remains: we continue to have two committees convened at the same time and the 4th Commission could not work on the draft framework law on international missions. I therefore call on President Latorre to desecrate the 4th Commission, for the examination of the draft framework law on international missions, and to convene it at another time.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u22	I do not see Senator Latorre present in this Chamber. As soon as he is present, we will refer the matter to him.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u23	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2344. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur supplemented the written report and that the general discussion and replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government took place. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u24	We greet the delegation of the classical and scientific high schools of Turin, who are represented in our forums and are attending today's sitting. [[Applause]] Obviously, in a declared conflict of interest, I also greet my son, who is present in the gallery as a student representative. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u25	We shall now proceed to the examination of the articles in the text proposed by the Commission. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u26	Mr President, I would like to set out amendment 1.3, in particular to highlight the fact that with the draft law under consideration we want to adopt a law of principles to which local authorities can refer. To this end, it would be appropriate for this draft framework law to use the same definitions as those contained in Decree-Law No 113 of 24 June 2016, so-called local government decree, currently under consideration by the Chamber of Deputies. This is the aim of amendment 1.3, which aims to introduce the same concept as that contained in the so-called local government decree. I repeat: if we want to adopt a framework law, we must use the same definition as in the decree-law, particularly in Article 9. Mr President, I would also like to explain amendment 1,37 concerning the Deputy Debt Facility. Again, let us remember that we are examining a draft framework law. We are saying that we want to operate in favour of simplification and transparency, but we know that our system of laws is very cumbersome and complicated, because there is a rule in a law and another code in another law. The same is true of the Fund's claims of doubtful liability. In our country, many institutions put this Fund in the budget, for the purposes of balancing it. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen of the bells, if I return to the case of the Municipality of Naples, where the Fund of dubious debts, which is very large, is counted for the purposes of balance of the budget and, therefore, the Municipality can spend a lot. This is true despite the fact that the Court of Auditors has stated that the budget of the Municipality of Naples should be reconsidered, so much so that it has been postponed back two or three times for approval. I have been told that this system is already in place, so much so that, as has been verified, the rule is contained in the law of stability. However - I repeat - if we really want to do serious, coordinated and easy-to-access work for administrators, this rule must also be included in the draft law in question, aimed at defining principles for the preparation of the budget of local authorities. In this way, you would allow any local administrator to know how to behave, without having to spend much of his time going to search the norm in the myriad of laws present in our order.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u27	Mr President, we have tabled two agendas which are aimed at helping small municipalities, particularly those under 15.000 inhabitants. Firstly, it seems absolutely absurd to us that the virtuous Municipalities, which have a great capacity due to their willingness to work, guaranteeing the services with the few resources that remain to them, cannot exceed what the balance of the budget leads to binding, that is, they cannot draw on the administrative surplus. We believe that this is essential in order to give answers to citizens, to guarantee services and, even more so, to avoid creating new debt and to give a chance of revitalising the local economy. We call for the Government's will to open up in this direction, by overcoming the balance of the budget, to give concrete answers which then touch resources already existing in the small municipalities. On the other hand, the other agenda that we have tabled concerns the difficulty of staff turnover in the municipalities. We know that the law requires a ratio of one to four between new recruitments and staff who cease to work. We call for a time extension from three to ten years, for the municipalities under 15.000 inhabitants, of the accumulation of resources intended for the reintegration of non-directive qualification staff. This is important in order to guarantee a possibility of replacement of the staff in the municipalities, which actually languish at the moment and need to have more operation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u28	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u29	Mr President, in view of these general comments, I would also like to make a few comments, so that we can proceed much faster in our work. A great deal of work has been done in the Commission on the amendments, because they were few and so we were able to examine them well. In that context, we agreed essentially on the rewording of the amendments, which were also accepted by the Government and which are an integral part of the text, as I explained yesterday. In addition, a further amendment was adopted, but it relates to the next article and we will see it later. For this reason, I am opposed to all the amendments tabled in Article 1. I would like to say a word about Senator Comaroli's remarks. In part, I agree with you, in the sense that the need for simplification is very much felt. But the measure we are examining today is in that direction. The key words of this measure are simplification on the one hand and unlocking investment resources on the multi-annual captive fund on the other. So the measure certainly goes in that direction, although perhaps less than they expected. I then give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G1.100, G1.101 and G1.102, provided that the respective commitments are amended by the inclusion of the phrase "to assess the appropriateness of "to." Finally, I am in favour of the G1.103 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u30	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. I should like to add a few words on Amendment 1,37, which was tabled by Senator Comaroli. I'm sorry, but I have to insist. As I said in the Commission, Senator Comaroli, the confusion would come out of the adoption of this amendment and not from its rejection, because the fund of doubtful claims due already today is not the subject of commitment. Therefore, if we were to write in this rule and accept the need for an amendment to clarify this point (which concerns the fact that, not being the subject of commitment, the Credit Fund of doubt due is not in the balance), we would cause in the actual activity of the administrations a confusion of truly remarkable guidelines. So I think that, precisely in order to achieve the results that you want to achieve, this amendment should be withdrawn; if you maintain it, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u31	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2, which is identical to Amendment 1.3. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Having not yet completed the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting until 10.05 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.55 a.m. and resumed at 10.06 a.m.) I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Boccardi, identical to Amendment 1.3, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, identical to amendment 1.5, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Boccardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, identical to amendment 1.7, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Boccardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senator Perrone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Boccardi, identical to amendments 1.10, tabled by Senator Mangili and other Senators, and 1.11, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, identical to amendment 1.13, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Boccardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,201, tabled by Senator Perrone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,202 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.29, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.31, tabled by Senator Mangili and other senators, identical to amendments 1.32, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Boccardi, and 1.33, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.34, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, identical to amendment 1.35, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Boccardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.36, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Boccardi, identical to amendment 1.37, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,38, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.39 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.40, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, identical to amendment 1,41, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Boccardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.49, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.50, tabled by Senator Mangili and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Bellot, do you accept the proposed rewording on agenda G1,100?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u32	Mr President, I accept that, but I insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u33	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Uras, do you accept the proposed rewording on agenda G1.101?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u34	Mr President, I accept the rewording, but, if you will allow me, I would like to make a clarification to describe the situation. The agenda refers to Sardinian Municipalities pending transfers that largely come from the Region and not from the State budget (only a small part comes from transfers from the State budget), of which some small ones have crossed the Stability Pact. I would remind you, among other things, that ours is one of the regions to which the new rules on balance and on the harmonization of the budget are applied before other local authorities and that Deputy Minister Morando is fully aware. The municipalities I am talking about have been in a state of difficulty and, therefore, have been overtaken by delays in the transfer of regional funds. In order to avoid the sanction, in the context of the constitutional competences attributed to the Sardinian Region, a rule was adopted, but it was challenged by the Government. The agenda therefore has a dual objective: if it is a matter of competence, the Government adopts the rule; if it is not a matter of competence, on the subject it does not affect the finance of the State at all, because we are talking about resources that are however in the availability of local authorities and that derive directly from the budget of the Region. Therefore, avoid blocking that provision and sanctioning those small municipalities that would be in a situation of serious difficulty, from which they would come out with further discomfort and damage to public finances. I therefore accept the rewording, but I repeat the message that we give the Government and the Deputy Minister to treat the game not bureaucratically but in substance, as it does not cause any damage to public finances.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u37	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I would like to subscribe to the agenda G11.01 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u38	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.101 (text 2), tabled by Senators Uras and Cotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Bellot, do you accept the proposed reformulation on agenda G1.102?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u39	Mr President, I accept the rewording, but I hope that the words 'to assess' will then be followed up, taken into account and that the agenda will not remain an end in itself. This also applies to the previous one. I therefore insist on your vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u40	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.102 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bellot. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Broglia, do you insist on voting on the agenda G1.103? BROGLIA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.103, tabled by Senators Broglia and Manassero. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u41	Mr President, I do not repeat what has already been said on Article 1. On Article 2, too, the opinions on the amendments tabled are all against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u42	The Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u43	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, identical to Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Mandelli and Mr Boccardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Mangili and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,200, tabled by Senator Perrone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.14 tabled by Senator Mangili and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.18, tabled by Senator Mandelli and Boccardi, essentially identical to amendments 2.19, tabled by Senator Bulgarelli and other Senators, and 2.20, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,201 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 3, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u44	Mr President, with Amendment 3.4 (text 2) we are going to focus on the fact that the Government has decided on the new LEAs that the regions must lend to their citizens. It's really fair to define the new LEAs. The Government, however, then tells the Regions that, with the amount assigned to them, they must guarantee anyway the LEAs, having decided - correctly I repeat - what are the new ones. Let's imagine, however, that some Regions, in agreement with the Government, on the imposition of the new LEA are lucky, because having managed to save in the context of high expenses, manage to guarantee them, while other Regions, having no financial availability, will not be able to do it. This amendment, then, contributes to the standard need for the definition of the costs in question, so that we do not find ourselves in the situation where some regions will not be able to guarantee the new levels, not knowing where to go to recover the resources in order to be able to provide this fundamental service. We are talking - I repeat - about the health of citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u45	The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u46	The same goes for the other two articles: the opinion is against all the amendments tabled. I understand some of the concerns raised by Senator Comaroli and I agree that the regions may have difficulties, but the opinion remains opposed. The opinion was also opposed to the G3.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u47	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u48	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Mangili and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.2 (text 2), tabled by Senators Mandelli and Boccardi, which is essentially identical to Amendment 3.4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Comaroli and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.100, presented by Senator Mangili and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u49	The opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u50	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u51	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Mangili and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.2, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Boccardi, identical to Amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.6, tabled by Senator Mangili and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, pending further examination of the amendments aimed at adding additional articles after Article 4, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10.26 a.m. and resumed at 10.45 a.m.) The Presidency declares the amendments 4.0,200, 4.0,201 and 4.0,202 acceptable, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u52	Mr President, the amendments in question are identical in the first part, and differ in the second part as regards the reference to Article 2 of Legislative Decree No 322 of 6 September 1989 by amendments 4.0.201 and 4.0.202 and not by amendment 4.0.200. The opinion is in favour of amendment 4.0,200, tabled by Senators Guerrieri Paleotti and Bulgarelli, while I do not feel I can give a favourable opinion on the other two amendments, because of the reference to the aforementioned legislative decree. As we have explained in the Commission, where we have dealt with this issue, Article 2 of Legislative Decree No 322 of 1989 refers to the national statistical system and this could lead to confusion by identifying for the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget (UPB) a role that is not its own and which could make it part of a category that is not its own. I would remind you that the opinion in favour of the amendment is linked to the fact that the Parliamentary Budget Office makes macroeconomic forecasts and that the European law establishing that Office provides for access to all the necessary information sources.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u53	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with the view expressed by the rapporteur and, therefore, in favour of amendment 4.0,200. If I may, I would invite the proposers of amendments 4.0.201 and 4.0.202, who want to achieve exactly the same result, beyond the final reference to the rule on the national statistical system (i.e. the official statistical offices forming part of the Eurostat system, in Italy represented by ISTAT), to withdraw their amendments and add the signature to amendment 4.0.200, tabled by Senators Guerrieri Paleotti and Bulgarelli. In my view, it fully incorporates the substance of the intention of all three amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u54	Do you accept the proposal of Deputy Minister Morando, Senator Mandelli?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u55	Yes, Mr. President. We therefore withdraw amendment 4.0.201 and add the signature to amendment 4.0.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u56	Do you accept the proposal of Deputy Minister Morando, Senator Comaroli?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u57	Mr President, we too support Mr Morando's proposal, precisely because the purpose of our amendment was the same as amendment 4.0,200 on which the Government expressed a favourable opinion. So we withdraw Amendment 4.0.202 and add the signature to Amendment 4.0.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u58	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.0.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u61	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to declare the Forza Italia Group's vote in favour of this amendment, which is undoubtedly appropriate. In order to be able to work on the budget, the Parliamentary Budget Office certainly needs access to the data in question. I also raise the problem, which I hope can be dealt with in a forthcoming measure to deal with this area, regarding the fact that the Senate and Chamber Budget Services should be able to have the same possibility. It is clear that if Parliament does not have this possibility, it would be very odd for others to have it, but not for the House and the Senate. Therefore, in declaring the vote in favour, I hope that in the future we will also address the issue of access to those data by the Senate and House Budget Services.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u62	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.200, tabled by Senator Guerrieri Paleotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u65	Mr Azzollini (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, your correct speed has not allowed me to push the button for the vote. My vote was in favour of the amendment that has just been voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u66	We take note of that. Amendments 4.0.201 and 4.0.202 have been withdrawn. Colleagues, I suspend the session to establish a better organization of our work. (The sitting was suspended at 10.51 a.m. and resumed at 11.06 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u67	Colleagues, according to the schedule of work approved yesterday, a single sitting was planned for today, for a dual commitment of parliamentary groups, with the suspension of work at 12 noon and the resumption at 3 p.m., with the explanations of vote on measure 2344 at 4.30 p.m., orientally, a qualified majority being envisaged. After consulting the Groups and considering this to be an intangible subject, I propose to the Assembly - there is a need for unanimity in order to do so - that the agenda be reversed at 3 p.m. and that we proceed to the discussion of the resignation of Senator Vacciano, who, after consulting us, has given us his willingness. If there is no opposition, then I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3 p.m. with the discussion on the resignation of Senator Vacciano and with the continuation of the discussion of the bill n. 2344. (The sitting was suspended at 11.08 a.m. and resumed at 3.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u70	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I would like to thank you for giving me the floor, because before we proceed to this important vote I would like to draw your attention and the whole House's attention to what was decided yesterday by the Conference of Group Leaders, together with you, President, in asking the Government (present at that time undersecretary Pizzetti) to take immediate action in order to have Mr Padoan, in this Chamber or in the relevant Commissions, to address the issue of the negotiation of banks in Europe. More than the negotiation on banks, it is a question of knowing exactly what will happen to Italian savers, for a number of reasons that it is easy to understand. That is to say, if we do not succeed in calling into question that bail-in procedure, as I think we request from several quarters without the Government being able to represent it in Europe, I do not know which savers will be protected as Minister Padoan says in the newspapers. Does the Minister refer to the savers of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena or does he refer to the Italian savers? Why, for example, as we read and as already happened with the participation in the Atlas Fund, the Deposit and Loan Fund should be engaged in a guarantee operation on a gigantic situation of suffering; gigantic according to the points of view, because if we evaluate gigantic the suffering of Italian banks, how should we then assess the effects, even more than gigantic, of the weight of derivatives on banks, not only Italian but above all German, that is, of that toxic finance that we have often denounced? But the point is another, Mr President, and I express it very quickly so that we do not take any time from this House. Our Minister Padoan, engaged in this negotiation that I think is almost completely concluded, but that we would also like to be the subject of the knowledge and information of Parliament and not only of the newspapers, I imagine that yesterday he must have felt very embarrassed during the meeting of the economic ministers, when his Czech counterpart - but who feels us very well - defined the situation of the Italian banks worse than Brexit, from the point of view of the effects of the fall on the European system and therefore also on our country. I did not understand well, because I do not see us and I do not feel as well as Minister Babis, if he were to refer to the fact that Italian banks should also leave Europe as Britain did and therefore be able to continue to exist as banks by virtue of this exit, because within this system of European rules Italian banks are the predestined victim of a great international speculation, which is beating once again on our country. I then return to the memory of ancient images and phrases that I have already heard. I do not think Europe is asking us to do that, because it can no longer ask us to be in a context in which we are always the only ones to be penalized. This is what Minister Padoan must inform us about; that is, he must inform the only seat of the representation of the citizens, which is not that of the Government, because that Government did not vote for it by any Italian citizen. That Government has the confidence of a Parliament - and I hope not for long - also on the basis of a proper relationship between the Government and Parliament on such a sensitive issue. However, Minister Babis allows himself to say such a thing without the Minister Padoan being able to reply, if not with the words of circumstance which he (very well-educated) used, but which do not give the idea of how Italy should be defended, Mr President of the Senate, from a very serious attack on Italian savers. This, in fact, is not the attack on the banks but on the Italian savers; it is like taking away what little remains of us asking us to respect rules that we have never shared, that a distracted Parliament voted on a July day a year ago, without understanding that it was putting its hands in the pockets of the Italian savers, setting in motion a mechanism that would have taken away their savings. If Minister Babis does not answer the Italian Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, I will try to do so and I hope that the whole Parliament will do so, at least the opposition forces. I remind the finance minister of a state accustomed to making crystal glasses that Italy is a great country, founder of this Europe, with an economic system that I do not need to tell either here or to Minister Babis, a gentleman who was a spy for the Russian secret services, who has turned into a magnate of agri-food and who today allows himself to give lessons of liberal democracy - as he says - in this Europe and my country. To him I answer that he is liberal democratic as I am Queen Elizabeth and since I am not Queen Elizabeth, he has nothing to do with liberal democracy. However, I demand that the Government of my country, never elected by the Italians but which has the confidence of this Parliament, defend the dignity and strength of our country and the honor of our savers, of the Italian people who have spared, built this economy and that this Government is likely to screw up. I demand that Minister Padoan come to this House to answer for what he is doing on everyone's behalf, but above all for Italian citizens. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u71	We'll try to have further contact with the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u74	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, stress tests will be announced on 29 July. It is true that on the one hand the Italian banking system is under attack by speculative finance, but it is also true that in the last year this Parliament had undertaken to set up a Commission of Inquiry to identify the responsibilities of the Italian banking system and what are the people who destroyed it. We are asking for Padoan to come here, because then in Europe he has to report what Parliament has decided and not what he wants to do. I remember what has been done over the last year by this Government to the Italian banking system and savers, who must be protected and not cheated, as it has happened. The Minister must therefore go there and bring back the voice of Parliament, which for now is the only sovereign, because Mr Renzi is absolutely not sovereign and is unable to handle this difficulty in the country. We therefore urgently await Minister Padoan. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u77	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I think it is useful for this House to support the request made by Mr Bonfrisco and Mr Bottici. You, the President of this House, certainly have the historic agenda of what we are doing in this House: I believe that Minister Padoan, since the government took office, has perhaps come once or twice for ten minutes. I think that the wisdom of this House would also help him to deal with issues that do not seem to us to be marginal at the moment. It is true, after all, that one cannot afford to accept the accusations of a minister from another country who talks about our banks; but it is also true that as long as Parliament is belittled as a nuisance by the Minister himself of the economy it is difficult to support univocal positions in the interests of the country, its citizens and its savers. [[Applause from Senator Pepe]] Mr President, you have already said that you will see that you agree. I would ask you, however, to make sure that it is Minister Padoan, not the Deputy Minister or the Undersecretary, who will come to this House. The debate on the relationship with banks and Europe for us MEPs cannot be interpreted in the morning by reading the newspapers; perhaps a little respect for this Parliament too would be useful to strengthen Italy's positions in a difficult context. Perhaps it would be better to have more respect for Parliament than for certain bankers who, as we have seen in the newspapers today, have managed to increase their salaries by 9.7% this last year, despite the wide responsibility they have at all levels, adding also the anti-crack clauses. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Mr President, I think that all of us, regardless of our political color, represent something and someone and we represent them with loyalty to our constituents. The government has not been elected, but here it has the confidence of a majority: let us tell the truth about the negotiations, the relations with Europe and the future of our savers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Pepe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u80	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Forza Italia also supports Mr Padoan's request to report back to the House. I would like to stress that I believe that it is in the country's interest for the Minister to come to Parliament and then to bring to Europe the voice of the Italian Parliament and not only that of the Government. I would like to remind you that we have approved the bail following a European directive, an instrument - as has been presented to us - which was designed to prevent any problems of a bank from spilling over to the taxpayer. We must not forget, in fact, that when the State intervenes, it means that Italian taxpayers intervene: money does not come from heaven, but from taxpayers. It was theoretically right that the errors of bank managers who were in difficulty should not be placed against the community. But the same bail in previews that, in extraordinary cases, there may be exceptions. Now, the continuing economic crisis affecting the whole of Europe and Brexit justify the existence of these exceptional conditions. I think then that if the Minister came and had a debate on the subject, concise but serious and meditated, in the end resolutions could be passed that would give the government the strength to present itself in Europe as the true expression of Italian democracy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Pepe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u83	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, you will recall that the matter was raised at the meeting of the group leaders and the urgency of having Mr Padoan in this House to report on the ongoing negotiations in Brussels and, above all, on the situation of the banks. Among other things, the issues of the last hours and the last day, as we have seen, are the subject of a very complex debate in Europe. We therefore consider it very serious that the Minister does not consider it necessary to report back to the House and accept a debate. Once again, citizens and savers are without any kind of information and risk seeing all their sacrifices and savings in serious danger, given the precedents. Alarms aside, the Minister - whom we have rarely had the pleasure of seeing - should feel the duty, not moral but political-institutional, to come and report to the House and be open to a debate that I believe is absolutely necessary. We are not talking about a secondary issue, but about something that concerns the country's economy and the lives of many citizens. We have already had bad experiences and even suicides, Mr President; I would like to recall the dramas of the people who may have been persuaded to carry out certain operations. There are also subordinated bonds for MPS; I would also like to mention this. We therefore hope that you will speak up for the request for a debate in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u86	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, our Group also supports Mr Padoan's request to convene because of two factors which, from our point of view, should not be overlooked. Firstly, in the European context, numerous and authoritative representatives take for granted the recourse to the so-called fund saves States by the Italian Government and this fact has never been denied by the Italian Government. It would therefore be good to have, in a detailed and detailed manner, a clarification of the intentions since the President of the Italian Council has repeatedly reiterated the invitation to our savers to remain serene. The second factor is even more complex. For a few days now there has been an exchange of "exfusions" between the President-in-Office of the Council and a former President of the Council, who is also part of the Democratic Party, which is nothing more than real news of crime. President D'Alema has overshadowed the hypothesis of the insider trading crime committed by the Government. The words are very clear; I am not quoting them, but at the moment I am not interpreting them in my own way. That's right. It would therefore be good for the Minister for Economic Affairs to give us some clarification on the facts that were flagrant on one side and on the other with such violence as to suggest that the struggle currently taking place within a party of the Republic is taking hostage, not only the institutions, but also the fate of many of our savers. [[Applause from Senators Di Maggio and Tosato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u87	He asked the government representative to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u88	Mr President, as was also said yesterday, in response to Senator Bonfrisco's request, Minister Padoan gave his willingness, obviously in terms to be agreed, to await the Minister's important commitments on the issues referred to both in relation to international agreements and in relation to the meetings taking place on patriotic soil. I confirm this availability. Having said that, I would like to say clearly that this controversy about the unelected Government and Premier is quite tantalizing, especially since we are in a parliamentary Republic and the confidence in a government in a parliamentary democracy gives it a Parliament. This Parliament has given confidence to the Premier and the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] To those who are so eagerly opposed to constitutional reform and legitimately defend the current Constitution, I would like to say that, more rightly, the state of the art of a parliamentary Republic should be clear to them. Of course, I respect the national spirit and the defence of national interests, which I have heard evoke in defence of the interests of Italy and Italian savers. I think that the Government is very strongly committed to this and I do not share the words that have been reserved for a representative of a European Government, who of course remain in the responsibility of those who have expressed them, and I also consider that the Government has always moved on this issue on the basis of Parliament's guidelines. Firstly, because on the eve of every European Council the President-in-Office of the Council has come to this House and has taken on the guidelines which this House has sent out and, secondly, because on the whole affair of the banking system more measures have been taken in Parliament and by Parliament, because of the direction of government action. [[Comments of Senator Bottici]] On this the Government is committed, with the maximum objective of protecting Italian savers and national interests. With this I confirm that Minister Padoan, in agreement with the presidency of the Senate, will come to report, as it should be, and to hear Parliament's opinion. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]] BONFRISCO (CoR). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u89	Senator Bonfrisco, replica is not allowed. BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, we entrust you with the promptness of the Minister's presence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We have already taken a step forward with the availability: it will only be a matter of agreeing the date.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u90	The next item is the vote on the resignation of Senator Vacciano. Senator Vacciano, by letter dated 12 May 2015, reiterated his resignation, which was already rejected at the sessions of 17 February and 16 September 2015. He asked Senator Vacciano to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few words, not because there is nothing to say on a significant occasion like this, but because I really believe that during the other two debates everything or at least everything that might have been necessary to make people understand the nature and the full freedom of choice I have made. To Mr Buemi, who pointed out the political nature of my gesture, I can only confirm this interpretation. I repeat that, as far as I am concerned, this should not be an obstacle, but on the contrary the most coherent and respectful choice of the will expressed by those who continue to consider my employers: the citizens. Because, in my very modest experience as spokesperson, this is politics: civil service and respect for citizens. Those citizens who by means of an unconstitutional law have only been able to decide to entrust their vote to anonymous faces behind a symbol. You see, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that I no longer recognize myself in that symbol and the judgment that I have of its current dynamics are absolutely irrelevant. The judgment on the 5 Star Movement's actions and dynamics will be expressed by the voters to the next policies: at the moment there are 9 million people who are entitled to an extra spokesperson in the Senate and who deserve exactly the same respect that must be paid to this institution. It is with them, not with symbols or party leaders, that I have made my commitment. I would like to thank my fellow Members who have had courteous, gracious and probably undeserved words towards me, and in particular Senator Falanga, with whom I had a brief confrontation after the vote last. However, politics, as I have lived it, needs something else besides commitment, preparation and study; it needs love and passion and I that love and passion, simply, I don't have them anymore, because they were linked to my experience in the 5 Star Movement. It remains the sense of duty of those who, with all the limits of the case, try to carry out the best task entrusted to them because, as already said, it has great respect for their "worker." With a lot of humility, I think this country deserves more. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my ideas are very far from those of most of you, but it has been an honor to have the opportunity to compare those ideas and therefore, in concluding by renewing my request to accept my resignation, I sincerely wish you all good work and a great good luck to the Italians.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u92	We shall now proceed to the vote on the resignation presented by Senator Vacciano.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u95	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, in 2012, when my colleagues and I came to Parliament under the auspices of the 5 Star Movement, we were convinced of the desire for change. Like our voters, we saw in the 5 Star Movement the self-defense of the Italian people. We entered the Chamber and Senate classrooms leaving our professional careers in standby, for those who had one, and in some cases even recovering economically and healthy. At first we were completely unaware of the operation of the machine, from legislative drafting to refunds. The refunds, those that the 5 Star Movement continues to say not to take and that we know very well are also used in a light way with regard to the Groups. The refunds come out everywhere and are badly administered, for the benefit of the faithful who continue to draw without meeting the needs of all. So that chorus and that high politics that we wanted to change have failed. Today we are discussing yet another request for the resignation of Senator Vacciano, disappointed by the internal evils of the Movement, of which we were convincedly part, who are demonstrating several times the rightness of the reasons why Giuseppe Vacciano, who is a good person, left him. He went out in protest after the nomination from above, en bloc, of the kids of the so-called directory. Now we have a future leader and Premier - let's say this - who beats his feet because he can't go and get an aperitif in Gaza, which has no experience of life, nor of work and which appears with what the communication makes him recite to slogans and rigorously summarized in titles. Well, this isn't the 5 Star Movement that Vacciano ran for then, and it doesn't even match my 5 Star Movement. Our Movement did not include so much hypocrisy and did not include so much obscurantism, so much lack of transparency, so much unfairness of the rules and so much opportunism. I don't generalize, because there are people in the Group that I deeply value, but the prevailing system and pace that have emerged are beyond that good policy of which we have fallen in love. Politics is a bit like this, it comes a bit out of passion - politics is passion - and we all got involved maybe even a little casually. I am for a policy that must be high, that is, a policy of doing, that is to govern the city and those who live in it (i.e. society) and a policy of saying, or dynamic confrontation on methods, actors and results. The 5 Star Movement has betrayed all of this. A good policy must meet the demands of the citizens, it is consistent with the intentions, it makes itself understandable and it has in itself the tools to correct itself and change for the better: a good policy that must originate from the original sense of administration of the polis, but that must become a higher policy, a sphere of collective and sovereign decisions in a public space in which everyone participates. All too often what should ideally be an aristocratic democracy, understood as the government of the best (but unfortunately we are not able to select the merit), degenerates not under the aegis of the eviction and bullying of some, but in a real oclocracy. In this context, the presence of Mr Vacciano in this Parliament (he, a good person, an expert in finance, who has always done his job and who wonders whether or not to stay) is, in my opinion, important because he makes us all reflect on our role and what we do in here: whether it is useful and whether it makes sense or not. Therefore, Mr Vacciano, I will reject your request for resignation. It is not a matter of civil ethics or respect for your decisions, as the latter are due to a disappointment, because it is not you who detached yourself from the Movement, but it is the dream of the Movement that, with the coming, became something else and betrayed itself. There are so many disappointed voters, like you and me, who are still reflecting and reflecting in you. There is a reason of state that goes beyond the personal needs, the difficulties and also the weight that each of us bears. In recent years we have unfortunately been degenerating more and more, making a policy of slogans, of party seen as a company. And it seems that every time the democratic principle of confrontation of ideas, of open field as a practical laboratory of political ideas that come together, and a policy increasingly asserts itself as an affirmation of interests, economics, partisans and some. Therefore, the presence of Vacciano gives good value to politics in my opinion. I would even propose a new figure: not that of the senator for life, but that of the senator who resigned for life, that is, he who is here and who wonders about the usefulness and role that we all come to assume. I'll add something else. Recently, among the various criticisms that were made to Renzi, Hope told him that he did not lead the party, as if this were a bad note, of demerit. On the other hand, I think that the objective should not be the safeguarding of a party, but the safeguarding of the good of a state and a country and of ideas that did not party and shirt. So Vacciano's voucher and Vacciano's ideas can still be realized and expressed today, even under another jersey, even under another symbol, even under no symbol. I want him to be there. In the worst case scenario, I would propose an almost salomonic solution of exchange: I would put myself in Vacciano's place, but I wouldn't do it for free: I could do it by agreeing to the approval of two or three draft laws that I particularly care about. Then I could leave immediately, because my function would be accomplished. While much more coherent and useful is the presence of Vacciano, who I invite to remain, even with some hesitation, and not only to be there and to continue well what he is doing, but to regain the enthusiasm and feel the right person in the right place. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bencini, Romans Maurizio and Orellana. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u98	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment on the reconstruction of the facts. When Mr Vacciano criticized the constitution of this so-called Directory, the Parliamentary Group questioned and of course discussed it in an assembly, where they decided whether to continue... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u99	Excuse me, lower your voices, because I can't hear Senator Baptist.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u100	Please, Senator Baptist. BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I was saying that the Group of the European People's Party decided whether to continue to keep Mr Vacciano inside. The Senators' Group decided to continue to hold Mr Vacciano within the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group. Then, as often happened in other episodes, including the one that affected the undersigned, when we are talking about expulsions there is the Parent working group that is to be the spokesman of the House Associates. At the time there was Gianroberto Casaleggio himself, who telephoned the Parent Company and decided to expel him from the Group of Senator Vacciano; and so it happened. Honestly, Mr Vacciano's motives (a colleague I appreciate, because I see how his mandate is properly carried out) did not convince me. We have all received a parliamentary mandate and we are representatives. At the moment, it is not the citizens who decide whether or not we should continue to be a Member of Parliament. If these things are changed in the future, if there is a change to the Constitution (if so much is said), this concept can be revised in a future legislature. Also with regard to the reflection we make on the Constitution, or we accept it as it currently is, in its integrity, or we open a reflection but we cannot say: I don't like this article and I behave differently. At present there is Article 67 of the Constitution, which has been written by the constituent Fathers; if we want to open a reflection, let us: we will discuss the law that will regulate the parties; we can also not say change it, but establish a debate on how parties should be regulated. But these things are not currently planned. And it seems to me that so far Mr Vacciano has continued and continues to carry out his mandate by participating both in the work of this House and in the work of the Commission. For these reasons, I call on the House to think carefully about this vote. It is not so much a matter of discussing the request for the resignation of Mr Vacciano, which obviously none of us has the power to oblige, despite the fact that there is a principle in our Rules of Procedure that will be taken up, if the new Constitution is adopted, the duty of Members of Parliament to participate in the work of this House and of the Commissions. At present Senator Vacciano has participated in our work. A concept on which we must reflect is the value of a decision outside a parliamentary group on the presence of a Member within a group. Unfortunately, the 5 Star Movement has not dealt with this aspect at all. There is an outside company that is not part of this Parliament, the Associate House, now managed by the son of Gianroberto Casaleggio, Davide, who makes the decisions and the group leader does not speak for the citizens, as Mr Vacciano wants us to believe in his speech, but he is the spokesman of the Associate House. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, and Senators Fucksia and Orellana. Senator Puglia's comments.]] So Mr. Casaleggio or his son, his nephew, his sister or anyone else from the Associate House, will decide whether or not someone should stay in the Parliamentary Group. After years I can say that the rotation of the Parent Company is done intelligently precisely to achieve this goal, because I remember the words of my colleague Morra when he settled as Parent Company and stated that he wanted to have 52 brothers, and everything else; the next day came the decision and with his friend Crimi signed the expulsion of his colleague Gambaro. That is the reality of that parliamentary group and of democracy from below. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bocchino, Fucksia and Orellana. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] That is why I am voting against accepting Mr Vacciano's request, and I hope that the whole House will use this argument. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Fucksia and Orellana. Ironic comments and applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u101	Please, let's not degenerate the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u103	VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. Here's another one! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u104	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to add my own reflection, if my colleagues allow me, on the matter of the resignation of my colleague and friend Senator Giuseppe Vacciano, a person of great competence and a great worker. You see, Senator Vacciano, your resignation for personal or political reasons, as you have explained, are not in your full availability, because it is expected that in these cases the final decision will be for the plenary assembly, which represents the sovereign people. This protects you, Senator Vacciano, the institution and those 9 million citizens who brought you here. PUGLIA (M5S). A symbol of the Movement! BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Because it is up to this House to fully assess whether its resignation is the result of external pressure. I believe, dear colleague, that you did not disrespect those nine million voters, but that it was the Leader of the 5 Star Movement that expelled you from disrespect. Those nine million voters, in fact, did not vote for a Movement that, in the total contempt of the rules, not only internal, that it has given itself, but also in the contempt of the most banal living in a civil and democratic society, has operated in the sense that Senator Baptist has now reminded us. The Movement expelled it without passing either from a parliamentary assembly or from a vote of the network. So, basically, his personal motivations are not the only ones on which we have to rely, because other factors come into play in deciding his resignation, factors that are beyond his own will, for a matter of protecting his own role. Well, we can only take note of what has happened and note that, in the unfortunate event that your resignation should be accepted - and I say this to you too, Mr President of the Senate - the very serious precedent of a private company which has succeeded, through direct and indirect pressure, in having a Member of the Republic resign. It is only for these reasons that, in my humble opinion, not only should his resignation be rejected by a very large majority, but for the same reason I ask you, fraternally, not to repeat this request. Your presence in this House, in fact, is a guarantee of democracy. For these reasons, Mr President, I call on all my colleagues to take the decision to reject this resignation, which I will certainly do too. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and the Senators Baptist, Orellana and Romans Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u107	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, we, as a group, will vote against the resignation and we will do so knowingly, even if we do not join Mr Vacciano with any idea and no principle, but, indeed, we are opposed to it. But this is the seed and essence of democracy. This is the real democratic debate. You yourself said, colleague Vacciano, that you have completely different ideas from many of us. But it is precisely the confrontation between ideas that drives democracy forward. Our constituent Fathers, from La Malfa, to Pertini, to Calamandrei, to De Gasperi, to Saragat, to Terracini, to Malagodi (to quote all those of the constitutional arch of the First Republic), understood precisely this. Your original sin, if there was one, was to accept that you were listed so that you could join this House. Once this has happened, you represent the idea that brought you here and that you are opposed to ours. And we want to continue this debate, because that is democracy. I do not know the pressure that my colleagues have just spoken about and that has led to your resignation being repeated. Mr President, we, as a group, have heard Members make important statements in this House, which must make us think. Some Members have said that there are lobbyists outside Parliament who govern a group and its interests. That is why I would urge you, if necessary, to set up a committee of inquiry into the lobbying lobby. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] If in fact there is no law on lobbying, bad politics applies to everyone, even when there are interests of external groups that, as I hear, lead the members a parliamentary group as puppets. [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]] These are the comments I have heard from some of my colleagues, comments of which, of course, I know neither the principle nor the end. I therefore believe that a Commission could bring out these interests, if there are any: they may not even be there. For these reasons, dear Mr Vacciano, we will vote against, precisely because we are of completely different ideas and we want it to be possible to constantly and systematically confront ourselves here, because - I repeat - this is the essence of the democracy desired by the constituent Fathers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u110	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I very much respect the view of my colleague who is proposing to this House his resignation, but I believe that we should all do a great deal of self-criticism because we have not yet given our country a series of laws on parties: a serious measure on democratic parties should prevent what is happening in our Parliament. In fact, if the parties were democratic, recognized by law and therefore by precise rules, these events would not happen, because the protection of the parliamentary autonomy would be written in the Constitution. I would just like to remind you that we perform our function without a mandate. So, Mr Vacciano, the problem is not to feel connected with your party or not. [[Comments of Senators Martelli and Puglia]] Often we are not in tune with the official positions of our organizations, but we have a priority and fundamental duty that is to respond first of all to our conscience and to our principles, those written in the Constitution and those we think we shared when we were candidates, regardless of whether they are represented by the 5 Star Movement or the Italian Socialist Party. We have this obligation and cannot fail, either because someone tends to throw us out, or because we no longer think we can stay inside. We are an entity protected by our Constitution in our political positions, which are, in fact, an expression of the exercise of the parliamentary function without a mandate. From the moment we enter here, regardless of whether we are elected by the Piedmontese or Sicilian, the Socialist Party or the 5 Star Movement, we respond first of all to our consciousness and our main role that is to interpret the historical moment, the general interests of the country or the interests of those sectors that we intend to represent here. If we are to carry out this mandate to the full, we cannot give up, my dear colleague, we cannot retreat. I admit only two reasons for abandoning: the serious state of health and serious judicial measures. The rest is an abandonment, a betrayal of the main mandate received. Therefore, I renew to Senator Vacciano the invitation to remain and colleagues the invitation to vote against these resignations, because they are an unlawful act exercised by someone in comparison with Senator Vacciano, but first of all with regard to this House which has the right to listen to his voice when it considers it appropriate. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u113	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, the reasons put forward by my colleague lead us to reflect and respond negatively by rejecting his resignation from the Senate. We would like to recall how our Constitution gives centrality to the person, to the chosen, and not to the parties. The Constitution has always defended the chosen and the freedom of the chosen. The immunity and guarantees are used by the Member in order to fully exercise his mandate. Firstly, guarantees are needed so that we can debate without fear of being charged; secondly, guarantees are also needed to protect against party pressure, so that freedom is outwards but also inwards. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] That is what our Constitution says, and that is what the democratic systems say. The alternative is parliamentary dissolution: the weighted vote. If we were to accept the logic that seats in this House are allocated exclusively to political forces, eight or nine people would be enough in this House to represent the seats won. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] We do not discuss a bad electoral law, because once the electoral law rewarded not the parties but the elected, who carried votes and took preferences, while now, with the Mattarellum, the logic of direct relationship with the college has been somewhat altered. The electoral law is a bit to review, but what matters is the individual and the freedom of the individual; alternatively, nine people, with weighted votes, raise their hands: one counts for 113 votes, another for 40 and so on, and we could all stay at home if we accepted the logic of partyism and weighted voting! [[Applause from Senators Fucksia and Mussini]] For these reasons, but also because our Constitution is diametrically opposed, we will reject the resignation of Senator Vacciano, whom we wish him well. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u116	Mr Warra (PD). Mr President, I am speaking personally in this debate, without referring to the events that concern the former and the still present in the 5 Star Movement, because I want to testify how, from the privileged observatory of the Finance Committee, of which Senator Vacciano is also a member, I have been able to know and appreciate the qualities of our colleague. I would like to mention in particular the competence and seriousness with which it deals with the issues, sometimes also very technical, with which the Commission deals, the tenacity with which it deepens the issues and supports its point of view, but accompanied by a true and I would say unusual willingness to compare and listen. All the elements that make my colleague Vacciano a valuable person and an excellent senator. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] It is precisely this duplicity - excellent senator and person of value - that will force each of us, in deciding how to vote, to face the difficult task of weighing up, on the one hand, the correctness of following the request that is presented to us today by Senator Vacciano, in respect of the seriousness of the person who addresses it (and this is a point that I would stress strongly and that seems to me to have been mistreated in the interventions that preceded me), on the other hand, the opportunity to oppose this request in order not to deprive the Senate and therefore the community of a significant contribution that we have learned to appreciate. In the secret of voting everyone will have to make the choice between these two elements, both important. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u117	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot by electronic procedure on the resignation repeated by Senator Vacciano. Senators for resignation will press the green button at the center of the voting position; opposing senators will press the red button on the right; senators who intend to abstain will press the white button on the left. As this is a secret ballot vote, whatever the choice of vote is made, the light that will turn on will be neutral in colour. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, Mixed, AP (NCD-UDC), AL-A, GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), FI-PdL XVII, and LN-Aut]] Colleagues, according to the agreements, the final explanations of vote on bill 2344 should start at 4.30 p.m., so I would like to know if there is an agreement to move forward. I see Senator Schifani gives me a negative sign, so I would suspend the session until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u120	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, a request has been made under Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u121	It is provided within three days, no later than the third day. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). This is new; I thought it was to follow from the statements of the Undersecretary. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I think you know Rule 105 better than I do. It will set a date for the debate, as you requested. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Always within a date, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. According to the Rules of Procedure, no later than the third day. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No further, so even now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We must first hear the Government, always according to Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). First the government speaks and since we have heard it, now we speak and in case we also present a resolution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In communications, after hearing the government, the debate is fixed. I suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.31 a.m. and resumed at 16.31 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u122	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u125	PERRONE (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text under discussion today amends Law No 243 of 2012 by intervening on the issue of the balance of the budgets of regions and local authorities. I hope, both as a Senator of the Republic and as President of ANCI Puglia, that this amendment will definitely clarify the point in question, despite some unresolved issues that I will present here. As you know, with a view to overcoming the Internal Stability Pact, the budgets of local authorities since 2009 have been the focus of experimentation and regulatory changes. Maybe too much! This does not mean, as I anticipated, that a critical comment to this bill can and should be made. Allow me, therefore, to give some thought and some technical passages. First of all, I would like to mention two observations by the Court of Auditors which pointed out that this rule has some contradictions because it does not fit the criteria on the implementation of the budget balance. In this way, more simply said, it produces yet another lack of coordination with two other previous regulations. Unfortunately, we are at an old Italian flaw: more and more laws and less clarity. But there's more. With this rule, the idea of a self-sufficient state still seems to pass away, but it is denied by the reality of the facts. Ladies and gentlemen, our state must show that it can repay its debt, like everyone else, especially if the investors are mostly foreign. It is precisely the relationship with international markets that has led to different limits on public spending. These limits - we know - are related to achieving sustainability and debt relief in the long term. For these reasons, it is no coincidence that the States of the European Union have signed an international treaty, followed by Law No 243 of 2012, which we are about to amend today. So - as you know - the obligation to balance the budget has been introduced, and so much has been talked about and continues to be talked about. What does all this mean in concrete terms? What does it mean for citizens and for those who administer us? It means that these passages have led to considerable restrictions for local authorities also in terms of their legitimate autonomy. Talking about restrictions for municipalities, provinces and metropolitan cities then always means inconveniences and limitations for citizens. In addition, it has not been possible to incorporate the novelties related to the reform of public accounting. Of course, therefore, it is appropriate to amend Law No 243 of 2012, exceeding the limits of the initial design. It is appropriate to ensure greater flexibility in the management of consolidation and growth contributions. At the same time, however, as I said at the beginning of my speech, yet another change in the regulatory framework affects our administrators and the possibility of planning in time and with certain rules. I then spend, once again, a word in defense of the local administrators, often accused in bad faith of not planning their policies well. I do so by addressing the Government, which is part of this sterile controversy, without any means. Too many times by the government it has been said that the responsibility for increasing public spending lies with local authorities. Excuse me, but they are and were useless slogans to mask the true sources of waste. If this government wanted to, it would actually cancel the Provinces, but it didn't. Let us stop with the policy of slogans and stop targeting local authorities. Who abuses local authorities, mistreats their own citizens! And those who do so - I repeat - can only make propaganda, without any connection to reality. According to a recent national study a few days ago, local government debt decreased by 14%, while central spending rose by 5%. The municipalities, for example, have reduced their debt by 3 billion over the last 24 months. On the contrary, the debt of the state has grown. For these reasons, I would like to remind this House and those who listen to us that I have proposed, starting from the 2017 financial year, measures to relaunch local investments which have been laboriously initiated by the 2016 Stability Act. I then asked to redistribute public finance constraints on a national scale. All this in order to provide for a fair mechanism of national solidarity and full use of available resources. You understand that this vision is appropriate to keep our country united and efficient. This vision is also strategic in order to allow the much desired boost to local investment, without fear of additional burdens for public finance. This vision - and I conclude, ladies and gentlemen - is necessary in order to hope that politics, as well as numbers, will be able to deal with the lives and needs of the people who live in our communities. Let's not forget it! For the reasons that have just been expressed, therefore, the CoR Group will vote strongly against it. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u128	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I have listened carefully to yesterday's debate on the draft law before us, in which many of our colleagues in the majority have explained how important it is, since it is going to amend Law 243 of 2012, which actually imposed many stringent constraints on local authorities. You think that a local authority had to respect even four different budgetary draws and could not include the tied multi-annual fund in the balance. The draft law rightly addresses these issues, also thanks to the requests from the regions, which have had to experiment with this legislation already in the course of this year. Members of the majority have therefore said how good this Government is and what good it has done for municipalities, regions and local authorities. However, they have forgotten, perhaps, that Law 243 of 2012 was passed by the Monti Government. The constraint of the four balances and the exclusion of the bound multi-annual fund were introduced by the Monti Government and the same members of the Senate, who spoke yesterday in this regard, supported this introduction. So they introduce a rule and then brag about how good they are at removing it. Mr President, this is a bit like that of own municipal tax (IMU). The center-right government had actually removed this tax, then came Monti who reinstated it and the Letta Government, by various agreements, was forced to remove it. It seems to me that Renzi was not the President of the Council yet, but he was the Secretary of the Democratic Party who endorsed the decision to re-introduce the IMU. Sorry to hear from Renzi that, once again, he claims to have removed the IMU. Mr President, this is the same thing that is happening with this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I was sorry to hear colleagues yesterday telling how good the government is to meet the needs of local authorities. Take, for example, the Provinces: here too we have often heard government leaders say that they have abolished the Provinces and their costs. Here too, however, things are only done to appear, because if we then go to see the facts, the Provinces - which are also local authorities - have not been eliminated and their powers have not been removed. In fact, there is always a need for someone to take care of the renovation of the roads and the maintenance of the schools. It was asked who could take care of it and it was answered that it could be the Regions, but without giving them additional resources. This is the system adopted by the current Government, which does things to appear, to make itself beautiful - forgive me the term, but I use it to give a way to understand the concept well - to the detriment of someone else. It's kind of like when it comes to investing in school construction. Again, we have heard a lot about schools from Renzi. If the government wants to invest in school construction, it must give funds to the local authorities, but in the end there was a problem: not being able to consider the surplus bound for the purposes of balance of the budget is a serious problem. Sometimes it happens that the local authority receives until the end of the year - for example, October or November - a financing that it cannot immediately use (there is time for calls) and the resources therefore flow into the tied surplus of the local authority. However, the Government requires that the funds of the tied surplus cannot be considered in terms of balance. I understand that these are very technical issues, but in the end the problems must be solved, but that is not the case. We listen to the various concerns expressed by the State-Regions Conference, the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI) and the Union of the Provinces of Italy (UPI). These are concrete problems of people who face every day the real difficulties associated with the administration of an institution. The problems, in fact, are many. There has been talk of investment and how important it is to restart the economy, which is a good way forward. However, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the bound multiannual fund. After several attempts and solicitations, the Government has allowed local authorities to calculate the resources of the multi-annual fund bound for the purposes of balance of the budget, but reserves the right to decide to what extent. Local authorities, therefore, although they have the resources, cannot proceed autonomously as it is the Government that decides. It is this aspect that we do not understand and we do not tolerate, because if, as they say, it is the local authorities that put their faces in front of their citizens, why must everything be centralized and the central government must decide everything? I repeat, why? During yesterday's sitting there was a great deal of talk about codecision and the need to listen to the municipalities and meet them, but this does not happen in reality. Yesterday, Mr President, I spoke about the essential levels of assistance (LEA) and the fact that the government has established new ones. Very well: we are actually meeting the needs of the citizens and it is a very important thing, I dare say fundamental. Health is crucial. However, the government, again in this case, said: you saw how good I am, I set new essential levels of assistance. At the expense of whom, though? Regions. The government gets nice and the regions pay. Colleagues, I would ask you to read the report on page 28 of the Court of Auditors' report on this subject. The jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court has clarified that the state intervention towards the territorial autonomy must not alter the relationship between the total needs and all the financial means necessary to cope with it, nor determine the economic and financial imbalances of the institutions, which instead is being realized with the bill under consideration, failing to guarantee them the additional resources compared to those related to the exercise of the normal functions. This is a bit the desire to trample on the autonomy, the local authorities, the regions, the provinces and the municipalities. Are we in a crisis? Rightly, the government must make an expansive maneuver. But what does the government do? He spends, he continues to spend, because he has to cope with the crisis, but at the same time he tells the municipalities that they must continue to respect the balance of the budget and that they absolutely cannot do anti-cyclical manoeuvres. You see, Mr President, for all these reasons the wish would be to vote against. However, we recognise that there are some valid elements in this measure, which are used to remedy a mistake made by this majority. There is a patch, but the hole created by the majority that supports Renzi is huge. We will therefore abstain on this bill. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u131	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 Stability Act has put an end to a long period of financial restraint in relation to the municipal sector. Over the last five years, the reduction in resources and the tightening of the constraints of the Stability Pact has contributed some EUR 12 billion to the achievement of the objectives of fiscal consolidation. This was possible because no further cuts in resources were foreseen in the 2016 financial year, but rather significant room for manoeuvre on the investment front was granted, as a result of the abandonment of the Internal Stability Pact, replaced by the new balance of final competence. However, what is provided for in the 2016 Stability Act, in order to fully fulfil its expansionary potential, requires further regulatory action to allow its consolidation, first of all the revision of the budgetary constraints governed by the current wording of Law No 243 of 2012. Amending Law No 243, in particular Chapter IV on local finance, is an obligatory channel to overcome the limitations of the initial design. There is a real need for regulation to ensure a stable structure of municipal finance, which has for too long been the subject of many interventions, which have undermined the planning capacity of most of our administrations. Italian local authorities must be able to operate in a context of certain and stable rules over time. These changes, particularly expected by the regions and local authorities, concern the provisions relating to the balance of the budgets of the regions and local authorities, the rules relating to the use of debt by the regions and local authorities, the provisions relating to the State's contribution to the financing of essential levels and fundamental functions, and finally the provisions relating to the participation of the regions and local authorities in the sustainability of public debt. Certainly it is considered appreciable the passage from the four balances to a single balance not negative in terms of competence between the final revenues and the final expenses, both in the phase of forecast and of account, but it cannot be picked up that the most important problem, that worries the territorial authorities, regards the eventual use of the bound multi-annual fund, that the financial law 2016 (to paragraph 711 of the single article) has established only for the year 2016. This concern has led almost all political parties to table many amendments aimed at including this multiannual fund permanently linked between revenue and final expenditure. This was the reason why an amendment providing for a transitional phase for the years 2017-2019 was unanimously approved in the Commission, during which the multi-annual fund was introduced by the Budget Act, while from 2020 it will be definitively introduced between revenue and final expenditure. The revision of Article 10 of the current Law No 243 of 2012 is very relevant to local debt management. In the light of the changes promoted by the text, debt operations will no longer have to be subject to the verification of a non-negative final cash balance referring to the whole of the territorial authorities of the region concerned, including the same Region. This change will certainly favour the use of debt and investment operations financed with the administrative surpluses of previous years, through special arrangements to be concluded in the regional area, which will in any case have to ensure compliance with the final balance of competence at aggregate level. While appreciating the progress made with this measure, which certainly marks some improvement in overall discipline, many other things should be revised and corrected, including the forecast in Article 3, according to which the State, by reason of the evolution of the economic cycle or the occurrence of exceptional events, contributes to the financing of the essential levels of performance and fundamental functions inherent in civil and social rights. I believe that this aspect needs to be strengthened. Furthermore, the structural inclusion of the multi-annual fund linked to the aggregates relevant to the new final balance of competence must be further clarified, improved and corrected, both in order to address the issue of the uncertainty of the composition of the balance, which would not give stable guarantees to the relaunch of local investment, but also for a reason for consistency with the new accounting. This criterion would run the risk of being dissatisfied if the fundamental linking function of the tied multi-annual fund between the various annual budgets were not made stable and structured, to the benefit of the effectiveness of spatial planning. In addition, the issue of overshooting should be dealt with more constructively, i.e. trespassing on a value that has been set as an objective. In recent years, in fact, the results of compliance with the Internal Stability Pact have been marked by financial margins, even large, that the territorial authorities have not been able to use. Therefore, the scope of the financial maneuver assigned to the territorial authorities sector should lead the State to pursue the objective of promoting, through specific measures, a full use of the spending capacity allowed to the system of local self-governments. It should be borne in mind that a proportion of overshooting is physiological, since it is never the case that the institutions commit all the appropriations provided for. Starting from this fact, therefore, it is reasonable to propose, perhaps by means of a special rule to be written within the law of stability, the possibility that institutions may use a share of the administrative surplus to finance capital expenditure. Such a measure could be instrumental in encouraging local investment without imposing additional burdens on public finances. All this, combined with a better redistribution of financial spaces, could really allow a sensitive step forward because those who have been administrator of territorial authorities know how difficult it is, especially in times of crisis and thinning of resources, to escape the risk, terrible and always lurking, of the financial failure. Mr President, the Group I represent in this explanation of vote will vote differently, depending on its sensitivity. As far as I'm concerned, I declare my vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u134	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr President, in order to understand how and why we have come to this bill, we need, as we say in Tuscany, to start with the principle, that is, with the signing of the Euro Plus Pact in March 2011, with the European Commission's gun and the spectre of the troika that was beginning to thrive. The Pact has included in our system a principle whereby all public administrations must ensure the balance between revenue and expenditure of the budget and the sustainability of debt in compliance with European rules: a close wanted strongly by Germany, and which has then become the pillar of those austerity policies declined to the letter in Italy by the Monti Government and which have determined the consequences that we all have under our eyes. No growth, unemployment and impoverishment of the middle class. This government has been very committed in Europe, with alternating fortunes, to greater spending flexibility in the different countries of the euro area, in order to restart the economy, and has obtained a first margin of flexibility in spending for 2016 for about one percent of gross domestic product: a result thanks to which the last law of stability was able to abolish the Internal Stability Pact, not providing for further cuts in resources and granting significant room for manoeuvre on the investment front. The ANCI had repeatedly hoped that 2016 would be the decisive year for the overcoming of the Stability Pact, to stimulate the recovery of local investments, finally unlocking the budget surpluses, acquiring certainty about the investment capacity and avoiding the risk of paralysis in the realization of the works. Some mayors said they were ready to violate the Stability Pact, knowing that the first fly handy for growth is the release of the Stability Pact, at least for investment and infrastructure. To be penalized were the most virtuous Municipalities who, while having money at their disposal, were unable to spend them. Many of those mayors had not one, but a thousand reasons. Now we finally overcome this paradox, this penalising limit, and the affirmation of the principle "so much enters, so much goes out" was a necessary step to overcome the limits of the restrictive interpretation of the budget balance in the Constitution. This bill, in short, allows local authorities to manage resources more efficiently at local level while respecting budgetary balances. It also strengthens regional pacts to encourage more investment in territories. The objective of finally establishing a stable framework for public finance and of restoring adequate planning capacity to local authorities is in the right direction, because local authorities have the urgency to be able to operate in a context of certain and stable rules over time. The Government's proposal has accepted some changes expected for some time from the system of local authorities, first of all that relating to article 9, paragraph 1, of law n. 243, which provides a single balance of non-negative competence between the final revenues and the final expenses. I would like to point out that the section on local authorities was, in all likelihood, a part that was adopted too quickly in December 2012, since, among other things, it provided for the respect by local authorities of as many as eight budgetary constraints. The debate in recent weeks has focused on the presence - only possible in the original text - of the multi-annual fund linked among the aggregates useful to the respect of the balance of competence linked to the public finance objectives established for the reference year by the law of stability; a solution not sufficient to satisfy the necessity - moreover several times recalled in the report of accompaniment to the bill - to ensure the consistency of the financial constraint with the new accounting system of the territorial authorities. The ANCI has emphasized several times the risk to prejudice the resumption of the local investments and to penalize own the agencies that have believed in the definitive overcoming of the irrational limits - the vice minister Morando has defined them "stupid" - placed from the old Stability Pact. However, the MFF has been set up precisely to finally remedy the problem of unused municipal budgets and to include it in the calculation of balances year-to-year with the stability laws would be very difficult precisely on investment, making it impossible to plan expenditure with a horizon of more than one year. Everything changes because nothing changes, moreover, is a consolidated Italian tradition, but the amendments approved in the budget committee unanimously at least partially prevented this risk, responding to the need for greater flexibility with the forecast of a transitional phase for the years 2017-2019, during which the bound multi-annual fund will be introduced between revenue and final expenditure as established by the next three-year budget law. At the end of the 2017-2019 three-year budget, there will be a phase in which the tied multi-annual fund will be permanently introduced between the final revenue and final expenditure of the territorial authorities. A positive novelty is also the incentive mechanism for local administrations that respect public finance constraints: a new vision compared to the recent past, when only sanctions were expected. In conclusion, the rules of public accounting must be stabilized in order to promote the efficiency and transparency of annual budgets, in order to facilitate the planning of local authorities and the unblocking of investments that can contribute decisively to the growth of the entire country. The objective of ensuring a realistic balance of accounts without compromising the spending and investment capacity of the municipalities is to make the "simplified" budget balance introduced by the 2016 maneuver that put the old Stability Pact in the attic. After twenty years characterized by an almost unsustainable contribution of the Municipalities to the consolidation of the state accounts (13 billion only in the last five years) and by a consequent drastic decrease of the investments, with the law of stability 2016 and with this bill have laid the foundations for an effective recovery, in consistency with the greater flexibility demanded from the Government to Europe. That is why I am voting in favour of the AL-A Group. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u137	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, the assessment we make of this measure is partly positive in that it allows the system of local self-government and the regions to have a greater possibility of financial maneuvering and to suffer consequences for some measure reduced than the exclusively sanctioning regime that regulated this matter. We generally maintain the reservations that lie ahead of these measures of harmonization of budgets and of research anxious for a balance between revenue and expenditure, accompanied by an assessment on the sustainability of debt that is always lacking in terms of the positive effects that courageous investment policies could have on economic performance and therefore also on State revenue. These reservations originate from the passive acceptance, in our opinion, of that very broad political framework which decided on the amendment of Article 81 and on the introduction into the Constitution of the balance of the budget, because that is the original sin from which all the legislation consequently adopted to achieve that balance between revenue and expenditure and debt sustainability, of which we have said. So an mitigation of that legislation is always positive. The reason why we are dealing with this plant is that we are against it in principle. Years and years have passed since the first hints of crisis that hit the Western, European and Italian economic systems in particular, and the collapse of the possibility of growth, with so many points of GDP lost, has accompanied the processes of significant impoverishment of the national economic system and also an overall impoverishment of the living condition of our citizens and our families. It has not been changed at all; that is, even if there is this system, this facility referred to in Article 81 of the Constitution and the rules that have been achieved, it has not resulted in a significant reduction in debt (we have a debt in relation to really excessive GDP), nor a reversal of the trend in economic growth. We are coming from a period of acute recession, we are in a period of substantial stagnation, we also have serious concerns about the state of international relations, so we have a serious concern that we can return to a period of acute recession. To this game must therefore give a response and the public system as a whole with the use of public finance, also through the system of regions and local authorities, is strategic and needs to be revised. We cannot live by trying to maintain the status quo. We must absolutely reverse this trend, reconstruct a perspective of economic development, have an idea of the substantial revival of our economy and life, of a new development that concerns our communities, based precisely this path on a new idea of local development, on the rooting of an economic project that, instead of being dropped by the international and national technocratic power stations, is an expression of a deployment of energies that starts from the places, i.e. the need to respond to the achievement of better living conditions. To do this, the system of local and regional autonomy is essential. Sure, it's okay to administer. Nobody says we should waste, no one says we should not pay attention to public finances. Some of the tools introduced are fine, but we need large public investments to reverse that trend, to return to growth, to improve the conditions of public finance, to give a perspective to this country that is not that of maintaining a progressive agony in which the economic system but also the institutional one and the social conditions of this country go towards a situation of permanent crisis. I believe that a reflection should be made on this. We will abstain on this measure because it is always an expression of a philosophy that we do not share, but it does mitigate the effects that are also good, so let us give a signal and abstain. However, we must reverse the reasoning: the private system does not invest, we have said so and we have heard it before. The private capital system is increasingly projected towards speculation on itself (it is so, it is a reality) and impoverishes everyone; so to move we need to give new capacity for intervention in the economy to the public system, starting with local authorities and regions. This draws more attention to the processes of corruption that are underway even in these hours, to the unfortunate phenomena with which we went to the unscrupulous management of the public resource, to the lack of respect for the sacrifice of so many workers who contribute to the establishment of that public finance and to giving resources. However, having done so, we must relaunch the economy, also using all the potential of our system of local self-governments. If we were to make the railways that must be made and spend the resources that we have, if we facilitated this path, Mr President, perhaps we would avoid tragedies and above all we would relaunch the economy and development of our country. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Santini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u140	Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the economic crisis comes to an end for some years, the legislator has placed numerous constraints on public bodies on how to use public money or ensure a balance of revenue and expenditure. The stratification of the regulations has very often caused a progressive increase in the operating environment of the regions and local authorities, depriving them of decision-making autonomy on how to commit public resources, even when they have taken on virtuous behaviors. All this has caused a progressive stalemate, if not a drying up of territorial development policies, in the absence of which even the richest territory could suffer significant economic losses. The aim of the measure before our examination, for which I announce the favorable vote of People's Area, is to simplify overall the regulatory framework by joining the standards approved in recent years; simplify the specific provisions on the destination of the levels of budgetary balances; ensure and simplify the possibility for local authorities to plan and predict territorial public expenditures allowing also an expansionary policy; simplify, on the one hand, the modalities of the State's competition for the financing of the essential levels and the fundamental functions in the adverse phases of the cycle or the occurrence of exceptional events and, on the other hand, the modalities of the competition of the Regions and local authorities for the sustainability of the public debt, taking into account the judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 88 of 2014. Without going into the details of the measure on which the rapporteur has already addressed in detail, whom I thank for her work, I would just like to stress the main aspects of the work in the Commission and the aims of the measure. Through a series of amendments to the provisions of Chapter IV of Law No 243 of 2012, it is intended to allow territorial authorities, through the allocation of public finance instruments consistent with the new accounting system, to manage resources more efficiently at local level, taking into account the specificities of each institution and respecting the budgetary balances. Moreover, through a strengthening of regionalised pacts, the bill aims to achieve the objective of promoting investment in the territory, both through the use of debt and through the use of administrative surpluses, as well as strengthening the role of the Regions as a direction cabin within the territory of reference. I stress this point because it is extremely important: up to now it has not been understood why a virtuous entity could not use its administrative surpluses for development policies. With this measure we guarantee this opportunity. With regard to the balance of the budgets of the regions and local authorities, the original text of the measure also provided for the introduction, with the law of the State and compatible with the objectives of public finance, of the bound multi-annual fund, of revenue and expenditure, between final revenue and final expenditure. Following the submission of a number of amendments on the subject by all the Groups, based on the need to include this fund permanently between revenue and final expenditure, a rapporteur's amendment was unanimously adopted, which provides for a transitional phase, for the years 2017-2019, during which the tied multi-annual fund is introduced by budget law, and the final inclusion of it, from 2020 onwards, between revenue and final expenditure. The use of the bound multi-annual fund determines an expansive policy for the territorial authorities that make use of it, with charges in terms of net debt. In order to ensure greater flexibility for local authorities, the obligation under existing legislation to use any positive balances on the exit of the institution's accrued debt and the financing of investment expenditure is abolished, in compliance with the constraints arising from the European Union's legal system and the balance of budgets. Finally, it is expected that the state law will define the premiums and penalties to be applied to the regions, municipalities, provinces, metropolitan cities and autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano, in implementation of the provisions introduced in the article under consideration. In the current version there are no premiums, but only sanctions in case of failure to achieve the management balance. In the examination of the measure in the Budget Commission, the Commission unanimously approved an amendment by the rapporteur which provides that the debt and investment operations carried out by local authorities through the use of the administrative results of previous years, which have not been met by regional arrangements, are carried out on the basis of appropriate national solidarity pacts. The rule introduces a national level of remodulation of the public finance balances allocated to the territorial authorities, obviously without prejudice to the effects of this national instrument compared to the invariance of the final balance of the whole of the territorial authorities. Finally, the Government accepted in the examination of the measure at the Budget Committee an agenda which commits it to introduce, in the first useful measure, a rule allowing the municipalities to use the administrative surplus to achieve balance of budget, avoiding liabilities and financial failure. I hope that this commitment will be implemented immediately by the Government. After the most intransigent austerity, we finally give more breath and autonomy to the most virtuous territorial authorities. This is the path to be pursued with strength and tenacity. People's area pursues it firmly, manifesting its full assent to the measure. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u143	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, when I started reading the measure, I was first caught by a motorbike of relief, because I thought that the shirts would finally loosen and the investments that Italy has been waiting for a long time would have been made. We're still waiting for the Junker Plan. I am referring to the famous 315 billion Renzi had managed to conquer. We've been waiting for more than two years. Then I went on and wanted to contextualize this provision. If it is true that local authorities will now be able to use their surpluses for investment, we need to see how local authorities are treated. I remembered a DEF table we approved a few months ago. I would like to remind you that Minister Padoan and, above all, Renzi are proclaiming that the debt will finally fall. (17.21) (Followed by Mr Lezzi). Since there will be this increase in GDP, the debt-to-GDP ratio will also finally fall. In the table on page 79, we see that central government debt will rise from 2.048 billion to 2,185 billion. It means that this will increase. While that of the local authorities will increase from 140,000 to 126,000. Here the intention is not to facilitate investment, but it is the usual one, that is to give Renzi and the central government the opportunity to take advantage of European flexibility, when it succeeds to win it, for the electoral marches of the next elections, for the bonus baby, for the bonus of 80 euros, for the bonus Stradivari, for the bonuses various to buy votes - this is what will be done - and they will fiercely punish the local authorities. There will still be cuts, which will affect health and services, for civil and social rights. Before we had a fund, which guaranteed the intervention of the state, but now, as is the practice of the Renzi Government, it delegates itself to other ordinary laws, which is like saying that nothing will be done. That means that. The principle of delegation now governs our country, because when it wants and can, perhaps at night, as it did with Bank Etruria, on Sunday evening and secretly, then the government issues the measures, which otherwise remain locked in a drawer. So, the investments you're going to need, they're not actually gonna be there. Now Prime Minister Renzi proclaims that he will not leave Puglia and the Apulians alone. I am Apulian and I prefer that Premier Renzi does not come to do yet another catwalk in front of 27 dead. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Caleo (PD). What are you talking about? Stop it! Mr Lezzi (M5S). I wish this was the time of remorse for the government, which should come from your conscience. You plundered the South. The fiscal compact, which you voted for and which you are now also ratifying for local authorities, will cause more deaths, more misery and more poverty. You did nothing but this: you plundered the South with Law 407 of 1990, you had the courage to support Renzi when he came to Taranto to say that he would save the children of Taranto. They're still waiting for him in the oncology. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And instead came the tenth ILVA decree, to save that factory, which kills a city and not only. We want real investment! In a few months the floods will arrive, because the autumn will come: where are the investments against the hydrogeological failure; where, in this bill, is the possibility for the local authorities to move forward? Where is he? He's not here! We are once again applying European rules. There is even the two pack, because the municipalities will have to present their complaints to the regions, who will decide whether they can act or not: it's a bit like we do in Europe, when we go there to beg. Since Europe has now become highly political, because it is only concerned with safeguarding its power, it gives us the opportunity to produce new public debt, which we then hold on to - because that is what happens - for the electoral tips I was talking about earlier, in order to stem the so-called populist movements and those who go against Europe, namely, the 5 Star Movement. Then Renzi arrives and gives the 80 euros. Instead, we need real programming: public debt can be done, for us it is not a curse, if it really pays back through an increase in GDP. Where, in the fiscal compact, is the possibility of an increase in GDP? Where is it, in observing the rules of austerity, imposed by Merkel to a dog of Renzi, the possibility of having an increase in GDP, since just yesterday we knew that the country's industrial production is still on its knees? ZANONI, rapporteur. President! Mr Lezzi (M5S). So, after having contextualized this umpteenth commercial of the Renzi Government, the 5 Star Movement decides firmly to vote \no }to the measure under consideration, because we are against the fiscal compact, we are against the European rules, we are against a Europe that is out of the control of the citizens, we are against a government prono, that accepts pedessequamente to do what the European Union imposes on us. On the other hand, we would really like to loosen the shirts and if there is a public debt to be done, that schools be fixed, that invest in technology, in research, in university, in the fight against hydrogeological failure, that invests in transport and that does not weep after, with the faces of circumstance, on television, because it is infamous and indecent! At least have the decency of silence, because you have full responsibility for what happens. Do not rely on human error! There is no human error here. Cursed will indeed be those who say that there is a human error in front of people who are dead! Shame on you for that! [[Comments from the PD Group]] ZANONI, rapporteur. President! MIRABELLI (PD). President, you're saying things... There's bad government here. There's bad management. In the South, transport investments amount to 1.3% of the total, compared with €4.5 billion in the Northern regions. There's a smashed country you wanted. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] You want to keep the country stuck. There is Renzi who has programmed the so-called unlock Italy and it is true, comrades of the North League, that the money was blocked for the bad management of the last twenty years of right and left, including the North League. Everything is still and still so that it remains the same. [[Comments from Senators Arrigoni and Centinario.]] You'd better have a poor South, a box of electoral votes for the right. [[Comments from Senators Arrigoni and Centinario.]] That's the truth. Raise your head, you too, friends of the League, and open your eyes, because it is a dynamic that wants the South to remain poor. That's the truth. The 5 Star Movement, again this time, and for the umpteenth time, declares a vote against questions not only of principle, but also of merit. Remember that when there will be the effects of this bill, because it was you, one at a time, who again voted for the fiscal compact for local authorities. Don't be surprised or not listen to Renzi who says that the previous governments should have saved the banks and should not have adopted the fiscal compact. It is you here who are voting for him again and again. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u146	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will shortly be voting on the draft law amending Law 243 of 24 December 2012 on the balance of the budgets of regions and local authorities. Once again we had to collide with a wall: the wall of those who are insensitive, indifferent and authoritarian; of those who do not want to hear reasons and go on their way, convinced that they have the truth in their pockets and do not need to confront and collect suggestions from anyone. In a spirit of cooperation, we have tabled a number of amendments, proposing the changes that we thought were necessary and which we have identified through a wide-ranging confrontation with local administrators. The attitude of the Government and the majority party was, however, clear and clear: we need nothing, no favourable opinions, no amendments adopted by us. Yet, Minister, dialogue with local authorities is crucial for the institutions. Local authorities are the front office of the institutions and you cannot continue to neglect their needs and demands. Local authorities are putting up with and supporting a great effort to cope with the severe economic crisis that is strangling the country and that you continue to deny. Local authorities have the problem not only of the rules for using resources, but also of the amount of available resources that continue to decrease. In recent years the Government - this very Government which has as Premier a former mayor and which has always referred to the mayors as a model to be inspired by - has dramatically reduced transfers to the Italian municipalities. The municipalities reacted with responsibility and seriousness, decreasing in the only two years between April 2014 and March 2016 their debts of as much as 3 billion euros. Too bad that, in the meantime, the debt of the central state has increased by as much as EUR 96 billion. And in addition to harming the mockery, because you forced the mayors to increase local taxes in order to survive, downloading on them a responsibility that is - instead - only yours and you did it only to be able to say that you lowered taxes, well knowing that this is yet another lie. The consequence is that, of course, revenue falls further because citizens can no longer pay the IMU, the waste disposal tax, canteens, transport and even votive lamps because they have no more money. At the same time, the crisis has led to a sharp increase in the demands of citizens who turn to the municipalities to overcome their difficulties. Those who are in difficulty, and cannot pay the bill of water, light and gas and have no resources to eat or even to cure themselves, turn to the municipality. It is the municipalities - for example - that assist and support the costs for minors who enter Italy through a written and unstoppable immigration and are entrusted to the reception facilities. In 2015, this was 6,614 minor. The government must listen more carefully to the cry of alarm about the condition and the daily problems that local authorities experience. You stay too long in the Palace, travel with the blue car and the escort, and you do not realize the dramatic situation in which the country lives. Do not see how careless the provincial and municipal roads are reduced, in which the grass is no longer shattered on the escarpments and the pruning of the trees is no longer carried out. When it rains, the roads look like torrents, with the water running through and invading the roadway, with branches falling on cars in transit, causing serious dangers for motorists and sometimes even fatal accidents. The asphalts are full of holes, so as to make them dangerous to transit. Is it simply by chance that they have returned to increase road accidents or are there responsibilities for you? This law of government initiative of the Minister of Economics and Finance Padoan contains changes to the financial system of local authorities that do not solve any problems. The need to allow local authorities to manage resources more effectively, always taking into account individual specificities and respecting budgetary balances, as well as to encourage investment in the territory, being able to use debt or through the use of administrative surpluses, is not satisfied at all. On the contrary, the consolidation of the role of the Regions, as a directional cabin on the territory, is an obstacle to the autonomy of the municipalities. But does it seem useful or appropriate and reasonable that, in order to use a surplus of administration, i.e. local authorities' own money, an institution should acquire a regional agreement? Several concerns remain about the current exercise, and possibly also about the future ones, to which the amendment of Law n. 243 of 2012 had to give consistent and lasting answers that it does not give instead. For example, what is the point of postponing the possibility of allowing municipalities to use the administrative surplus in order to achieve a balanced budget, avoiding a financial deficit? What do the agendas matter? Parliament is paved with agendas that have no effect. The President of ANCI Fassino, who, in a letter to Minister Padoan, has also made it clear to you that it is imperative that the multi-year bound fund be included permanently and not decided year by year in every law of stability. Why have you kept this choice of uncertainty and provisionality, which prevents the municipalities from seriously tackling the problem of investment and multiannual expenditure? We will soon have yet another change, and you will certainly accept it next time. But do you think you can play with the laws? I dare not imagine what you would do with a single reading, as you have foreseen in your constitutional reform. I am convinced that this measure solves little and no better the conditions of the local authorities, who need much more. Local authorities need fewer rules, simplifications. We have too many rules now and no one respects them anymore; only fools respect the rules. You have eliminated sanctions for non-compliance with the Stability Pact in Metropolitan Cities and Provinces (with Article 7 of Decree-Law No 113 of 24 June 2016), but you have ridiculed the Municipalities, who have made fatal leaps to comply with the Pact in the past year. Can local authorities continue to pay interest rates on loans with banks or with the Bank deposits and loans of 5-6 percent (usury rates), when current rates are even below zero? But you wonder why the gross investments of the municipalities have decreased by more than 25% in the last four years and continue to decrease? The loans contracted by local authorities and investments do not serve to go on vacation, but are the tools that the municipalities use to create structures and services for the citizen. In conclusion, we are faced with a minimum measure, nothing more than one piece, which is useful to remedy some errors in the previous law, but which does not have the ambition that would instead have been necessary to rewrite the overall rules of regional budgets and local authorities, simplifying and facilitating, for example by differentiating between bodies of different sizes. It is not possible that for the Municipality of Bolognola, which has 150 inhabitants, the same rules must apply as for the Municipality of Rome, which has 3 million inhabitants. There remains the bitterness that could be done more, much more and better, if only the Government and the Democratic Party had agreed to seriously confront the oppositions on the substance of the provision. For the reasons set out above, we make a critical assessment of the measure. Only out of a great sense of responsibility will our vote be abstaining, hoping that the Government will address in a concrete way the problems of local authorities not through new and additional rules, but with the resources necessary to avoid an economic collapse that now becomes irrecoverable. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u149	(17.39) SANTINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, before I begin my speech, let me say that, in the face of very offensive accusations against the President of the Council, I would have understood from the Presidency - I am not addressing you, Mr Grasso, but to those who presided before you - an intervention at least of censure. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] But unfortunately there wasn't, and I'm sorry about that. The measure we are about to adopt is much awaited; it establishes a new framework for the management of the balance of the budgets of the territorial authorities; it definitively exceeds the mechanism of the Internal Stability Pact and frees, albeit progressively, greater financial spaces for the local authorities. The measures in our examination are part of a path already begun with the law of stability 2016, a measure with which it has been put to an end a long phase of financial restriction carried out against the sector of the territorial authorities. Between the reduction of resources and the tightening of the constraints of the Stability Pact, made even more difficult due to the economic crisis, territorial authorities over the last five years have made a decisive contribution to the achievement of the difficult objectives of fiscal consolidation. The 2016 Stability Act, for the first time after many years, did not provide for further reductions in local authorities' resources but, on the contrary, provided significant room for manoeuvre on the investment front. With the 2016 maneuver a new institutional role has been recognized to the territorial authorities, fundamental in order to engage the economic recovery. However - this is the point of today - the installation of the 2016 Stability Act, in order to be able to fully fulfil its potential, requires further regulatory action to allow its consolidation, starting with the revision of the budgetary constraints governed by the current formulation of Law n. 243 of 2012, which are precisely the object of our measure. Law n. 243 of 2012 introduced in our legal system, in a constitutionally strengthened way, balance-of-budgetary obligations deriving from the situation of serious instability of public finance that the country has faced since the end of 2011. The approach of Law No 243, based on the imposition of obligations and constraints to be applied without distinction to each local authority, has laid down a strictly regulated financial framework for territorial authorities. Now, after the acute crisis of public finance, the amendments introduced to Law No 243 overcome several rigidities and difficulties in applying the current text. They aim at a thorough review of the public finance obligations assigned to territorial authorities, with the explicit objective of achieving a framework of coherent constraints with respect to the new rules of public accounting. The most significant change of interest to territorial authorities is, without doubt, that relating to paragraph 1 of Article 9. In line with the provisions of the 2016 Stability Act, the new provision replaces the four jurisdictional and cash constraints currently envisaged with a single non-negative balance between final revenue and final expenditure. In addition, I would remind Senators Ceroni, Lezzi and other colleagues who preceded me that, with an amendment proposed to the Senate and approved by all the Groups in the Commission, the multi-annual fund has been introduced structurally bound since 2020, among the aggregates useful to respect the balance of competence. And this is a very important step forward, and I once again thank all the groups that supported our proposal. From this point of view we are also at an important step in relation to the expectations of the Union of Municipalities and other territorial authorities. This solution meets the need to ensure the consistency of the financial constraint with the new accounting system and the formulation is intended to promote a decisive recovery of local investment, which has as its prerequisites the inclusion of the multi-annual fund bound in the new balance brought by the Stability Act. The stabilisation of this decline in the balance of competence, in which the tied multi-annual fund is also included, is an essential objective in order to give strength and continuity to the planning of investments, precisely overturning the logic of what happened with the Stability Pact. To this end, the Democratic Party considers it very important that the next budget law should make the maximum effort to ensure that the tied multi-annual fund is included to a very large extent, and throughout the three-year period in a complete way, in the balance between revenue and expenditure, in order to give this rule the strength it must develop in order to promote the recovery of the country and investment. Very important for the management of local debt is also the revision made to Article 10, which will favour the use of debt and investment operations financed from the administrative surpluses of previous years, through special arrangements to be concluded in the regional context. Where such operations are not met by regional arrangements, they shall be carried out on the basis of appropriate national solidarity pacts, in fact introducing a national level of remodulation of the public finance balances allocated to territorial authorities. Overall, the changes will make it possible to simplify considerably the procedures for recourse to debt in order to finance the investment costs of the territorial authorities and the implementation of interventions in the territory. Other important changes refer to the actions that the State may take against territorial autonomy due to the evolution of the economic cycle or to the occurrence of exceptional events. In conclusion, the measure we are going to vote on must be regarded as a fundamental part of a wider regulatory arrangement in order to ensure that the financial structure of the local authorities is finally stable. Local authorities, with the approval of the measure, are placed in a position to operate in a context of certain and stable rules over time, restoring to this important sector a situation of management "normality" and, above all, of organization and planning of certain measures and interventions to be taken for their territory. To these, in the coming months and years, will have to be added other robust interventions, especially in the matter of simplifications and of orders decisions. I conclude by stressing the fruitful work carried out during the procedure of the provision to the Senate which saw the contribution of all, majority and opposition, in a climate of collaboration - a bit different from that described in particular in the last speeches heard in the Chamber - which allowed us to deepen the substance of the provision and allowed us to find together, and in a shared way, the improvement solutions that we can bring here with a certain conviction and with great awareness. For these reasons, I address the senators and senators all, to assess the measure for what it is, on the substance, for the progress made together in the Commission, as a text strongly awaited by those who asked us to do so, by the recipients, by the municipalities, by the regions and by the Italian citizens. They can therefore approve it, as the Group of the Party of European Socialists will do. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u150	Since an absolute majority of the members of the Shareholders' Meeting is required for the approval of the bill, pursuant to Article 107 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I have the determination of the number of those present. I invite the secretary senators to pay attention to the cards included in the devices. I would ask colleagues to cooperate in removing the cards that the senator doesn't fit in with. (Follows the determination of the number of persons present.) In view of the outcome of the test, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u151	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). [[Senators present 274 Senators voting 273 Majority 161 Favorable 184 Contrars 45 Absent 44 The Senate approves. (See Annex B).]] [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Gualdani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u152	Please pay attention now. No photos in the courtroom, thank you. [[Brusio. References by the President]] Ladies and gentlemen, I respond to the request made by Senator Calderoli and other senators. The right granted to the prescribed number of senators, pursuant to Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure, is certainly a power of power, and under this provision the Presidency has no specific power, either with respect to the senators, or with respect to the Assembly, or with respect to the Conference of Leaders. Parliament's practice has undoubtedly confirmed this interpretation, but has enriched it with additional specifications, both in a restrictive and extensive sense. These include the case-law for which, even in the absence of the required number of eight senators, the Conference of Leaders can nevertheless arrange for the item to be placed on the agenda. There are two different types of restrictive sign specifications. The first: where the Government intervenes in the context of the subject dealt with in the sitting, even if outside the ordinary and provided that the Rules reserve to the representatives of the Executive, do not integrate the material premises of the case referred to in Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure. The second: when the Government does not intervene primarily, but only in response to requests made by senators, not by extending the content spectrum of the interventions that preceded it, participation in the debate of the representative of the Executive does not qualify as "government communications" in its own sense. In the light of these considerations, the Presidency notes that Senator Pizzetti's intervention was subsequent to that of the senators who raised the main question, which was not in itself originally on the agenda. The Government representative's comments are due to the Commission's response to the senators' requests, accompanied by assessments that appear to be speculative to the critical remarks developed during the previous interventions. With regard to the factual presuppositions of the case governed by Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure, according to the interpretative practice mentioned above, the so-called objective element is lacking and therefore the request made by the prescribed number of senators cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u155	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, since I also went to read the shorthand report, I would never have made the request if Secretary Pizzetti had merely answered the question raised by Senator Bonfrisco and followed by a number of other senators. When, on the other hand, undersecretary Pizzetti talks about the Constitution, constitutional reform and referendum, he introduces a case that was certainly not on the agenda. If you don't want to consider communication, I agree with you. Then I would like to make the request pursuant to Rule 99, second paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, because it is clear that, in any case, the Undersecretary Pizzetti did not intervene at the time of reply or to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u156	The Presidency shall confirm the decision taken. As the Government's information on the railway disaster in Puglia is scheduled for 6.30 p.m., I suspend the session. (The sitting was suspended at 5.54 p.m. and resumed at 6.31 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u157	The next item is the government's information on the railway disaster in Puglia. I call the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Delrio.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u158	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me say that we are close to the people of Apulia. We're close to the victims' families. What happened asked us how a normal event could move and exercise a democratic right should instead turn into a mourning event. There are questions about safer and more efficient mobility for our country's users (students, workers, tourists and passengers of all ages). Yesterday, the President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, on the day of pain and tears, during the visit said that these are the moments of closeness to families, but he also added that it is necessary to clarify as soon as possible. On this we guarantee all our collaboration and our commitment to assist the investigative magistrates and the Apulian Region, which we will not leave alone. We will not leave your mayors alone, to which we will continue, even in the next few weeks, to be with you. The accident took place on the Bari-Barletta railway. It is a 70 km long regional railway line that connects Bari with numerous towns located on two Provinces, which ends in Barletta and a catchment area of about 700,000 inhabitants. The management of the line is managed by the company Ferrotramviaria, which operates there as both infrastructure manager and railway undertaking and also carries out the automotive service in the same basin. The ownership of the infrastructure is of the Puglia Region. It is part of that system of former railways granted to the Regions. The line is electrified, normal gauge. It is a double track between Fesca San Girolamo and Ruvo (about 33 kilometers), while for the remaining 37 kilometers it is a single track. The movement of trains takes place with automatic bidirectional block from Bari to Ruvo through the central electrical equipment to itineraries (ACEI) and the central static equipments (ACS) of Terlizzi and Ruvo, and with telephone block from Ruvo to Barletta. On 12 July, at 11:38 a frontal clash took place between two railway trains of about 80 metres in length. The convoys were newly produced and put into service on the single track line Corato-Andria of this railway line managed by the railway company Ferrotramviaria. The balance sheet at this time of the victims, unlike when I spoke to the House, is consolidated: the identifications of 23 victims have been completed. 27 people were reported theoretically missing, but today, with the conclusion of the removal of debris and the completion of all operations, the balance of the victims was fortunately reduced to 23, compared to the supposed 27. The company Ferrotramviaria obviously stopped circulation in the trade. Following the frontal incident, the Civil Protection Department, having learned at 11.42 am of the news of the incident received to the Italian Situation Room of the operational structure of the fire department, immediately activated to follow and evaluate the extent of the incident, to verify that the entire national civil protection system was informed and to bring immediate support to the local authorities and the regional civil protection. Subsequently, on the basis of the information assumed and in compliance with the indications of the regulations of the field, it assumed the configuration S2 (operational preside) and remained in constant video connection with the operating center of the fire department of the Viminale and, through the Sala Situation Italy, with all the national operating rooms, as well as with the Region Puglia and the two prefectures concerned. In view of the significant proportions of the accident, 52 people were started in hospital care yesterday, of which 11 were in serious condition. As I have already said, the legal doctors have only recently been able to conclude the activities of recognition of the victims: throughout the night they have worked to recompose the bodies and, as you can imagine, the reconstruction of identities has been very complex. At the territorial level, the coordination of rescue operations on the spot, in conjunction with the Region, was ensured by the coordination centre of relief at the prefecture of Barletta and Andria, which was immediately prepared; in the municipalities of Corato and Andria the municipal operating centers were activated. In order to provide support for rescue activities, the Region of Puglia, in agreement with ASL, immediately activated a number for people who require information about passengers. At the central level, considering the seriousness of the situation, at 3.30 p.m. I went there with the head of the Civil Protection Department, a group of his collaborators and the head of the National Firefighter Corps. On site were already present the president Emiliano, the vice president of the Region, the director of the regional civil protection, the mayors of the territories. Subsequently, the President of the Council, yesterday evening, reached Puglia and, after having carried out a survey on the site of the left, presided a first meeting of the crisis unit, at the prefecture of Bari. As you know, the tight relief operations have continued throughout the night, especially the debris removal activity. In order to verify the possibility to accelerate the handling of the carriages, the cranes most suitable for the operations in progress were engaged on the spot and arrived, during the night, a locomotive sent by the State Railways to ensure maximum assistance. The research activities, moreover, have allowed to recover the black box of one of the two trains. I would like to point out at this moment, for having seen him and for having seen the faces of the members of the Fire Department, the Forces of Order and Civil Protection, their extraordinary dedication and the spirit of sacrifice. [[Applause]] Allow me to say that the relief was not only timely, but also generous. We have also seen extraordinary generosity from the citizens of Apulia, when there was a need to donate blood. To them goes all our gratitude and our pride. [[Applause]] I would now like to inform you about the issue of security. The safety of rail traffic in this route is regulated by the telephone consent mechanism: in the telephone block system the stationmaster cannot send a train to the next station unless he has requested and obtained from the station manager the consent to send that particular train. Therefore the section of line is normally blocked and is released for circulation from time to time, through the consent to the forwarding of the train. Therefore, by such procedure, only one train may be present on the line section at a time. The signalling system with telephone consent, although it is safe, is certainly one of the least developed. Of the 20,000 kilometres of the national rail network, 16,000 of which are state-owned and 3,000 of former railways granted, only 600 are regulated by this mechanism. Therefore, the whole network of national competence is regulated by mechanisms other than this. The system is safe, but it relies entirely on man and therefore fails to have a mechanism of "servosterzo" with respect to man's error: this is the real limit. The technologies available today are obviously much more advanced, but it must be said that on the simple-track route under consideration, the telephone consent system has been in use for over sixty years and the current frequency of the convoys is practically unchanged for about ten years, during which there have been no problems in the application of the system. The system - I repeat - is the full responsibility of the management company, Ferrotramviaria SpA. Many of the secondary networks are also characterized by more advanced technological standards: as mentioned, only about 600 kilometers adopt this mechanism. It should be noted that there are still 2,700 kilometres of single-track line in the secondary rail network. However, the single track - and I would like to say this very clearly and it is widely held among all the experts - is not synonymous with insecurity. Of the 16,000 kilometers of national network, 9,000 are one-track and are fully technologically equipped and maintain a level of safety among the highest in the world. Italy's state railways have the highest levels of safety in the world. The doubling of the track is justified by the capacity of the system, rather than by safety: this is what all experts around the world guarantee. In this case, Ferrotramviaria is, since its establishment, one of the best companies in the Italian panorama in terms of efficiency and effectiveness of the service offered and the professional level of the employees and the interventions of modernization and improvement of the exercise. The Region of Puglia, which is responsible for these regional sections, has invested a lot in technological modernization and the one under consideration was not considered among the most endangered or most devastated lines in the very complex and unbuilding panorama of Italian regional public transport. I would like to remind you that a similar accident has also occurred in Germany and that more than 50% of the rail networks in Germany are single-track. On the route there was a system of control of the march of the train that, even if not evolved, is one of the most advanced systems in the system of telephone consent. However, automated systems can also be switched off by the operator, so much so that the very serious accident in Germany was caused by the decommissioning of the system by a station manager who wanted to speed up rail traffic. Therefore, the most technologically advanced systems can be deactivated and human error is also possible in this sense. All this, of course, does not intend to anticipate any of the conclusions that the judiciary will draw with its inquiry. In order to ascertain exactly the dynamics of the facts and the safety issues, we immediately appointed a committee of inquiry, with the aim of ascertaining the causes of the accident and the safety responsibilities of the safety officer. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport carries out safety tasks, pursuant to the decree of the President of the Republic of 11 July 1980, n. 753, both during the planning phase and during the implementation of the exercise. These tasks shall cover all checks on projects aimed at the issue of technical clearance for the safety of installations and functional checks and tests for the opening of the operation. The management of infrastructure and operation on the same network is the responsibility of the exhibiting companies. Railway services and installations must be maintained safely and the operation of the service must be ensured in full regularity. The figure of the manager is represented by the operating director, who represents the company in the supervisory bodies of the State, of the Regions (in this case it is the granting region) and of the local and territorial authorities. The operating director shall be responsible for the efficiency of the service for the purposes of safety and regularity. The Ministry, exercising its vigilance over safety aspects, has maintained an intercourse both with regular checks on infrastructure, through the special office transport to fixed installations (USTIF), and with the safety officer and I must say that we have never had to note any deficiencies. Therefore, the operator, operators and managers have always behaved in an appropriate manner to the standards. Certainly this event poses the problem, which we have raised not today or in the last few days but always, of strengthening and improving the efficiency, effectiveness and safety of the Italian public transport system. Several times we have talked about the so-called iron cure, a cure that we have not uttered in words, but that we have put into practice in a very concrete way. As you know, Parliament recently approved the update of the 2015 programme contract, which provides for investments of almost EUR 9 billion on the rail network, and we have already sent the update of the 2016 programme contract to CIPE, which provides for further investments of around EUR 9 billion, which will soon be submitted to your attention. So we reach almost 18 billion, of which more than 4 billion in the first update, but just as much or less in the second one, are destined, finally decidedly, also to interventions on regional networks (to increase efficiency and to increase capacity). It has been said on social media - and I would like to say here - that there are 4.5 billion in the Stability Act allocated to the North or high-speed networks: the actual allocation that Parliament approved is precisely 9 billion in 2015 and 9 billion in 2016 as a whole. In stability they have been listed simply the excerpts and the constructive lots that it was necessary to try to anticipate on the high-speed lines, but those do not represent in any way the railway investments. I come back to talk about "iron cure" and I remember that the collaboration we had this year with the Regions was very intense, precisely to fill this gap in local public transport, although it is not our direct competence because theoretically the State could stop at the theme of the single fund for local public transport. This intercourse and the sensitivity to catch up in this area have made it possible to allocate as much as 18 billion, of which a substantial part on the regional lines and the further reinforcement of the cargo transport. Why? Because we know that regional public transport has been the Cinderella of these years and we know that we have five million people who, every day, between metropolitans and regional networks, go on these means. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you, together with the Stability Act, have also approved an investment programme for the renewal of the rolling stock fleet, with over EUR 1 billion, which will replace most of the old regional trains. In this case the regional trains were new and it is not true that they were inadequate trains; certainly the technological endowment of the infrastructure, which allows the dialogue between the infrastructure and the train, was not adequate. But the trains were new. As I said, you have approved the revolutionary choice of putting a lot of resources in this area, to be fully close to the regions, which have responsibility for local public transport. Not only that. Precisely because the 3,000 kilometers of railways granted are a problem in terms of investment, we have urged, already months ago, within the industrial plan of Ferrovie dello Stato that has already been elaborated and is under examination of the board of directors, also a plan in order to be able to have a greater collaboration with the Regions in the management of the infrastructure, through framework agreements that are in advanced phase of discussion (already for months) with Lazio, Campania, Umbria and other Regions, in order to be able to realize on the networks of the railways granted those technological investments more advanced that the Regions have struggled to do for lack of resources. So, on the one hand, there are the investments in the programme contract and on the other hand there are these agreements that we have promoted with the policies of Ferrovie dello Stato; on the other hand, we have completed an investigation with the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in order to put an additional 1.8 billion in interventions on particularly inadequate networks, always of regional property, allocation that will be approved with the Development and Cohesion Fund, that is, it will be particularly dedicated to the regions of the Mezzogiorno. For this reason I say that there is a strategy, that has been going on for some time and that obviously tries to fill some of the historical delays that we have. The same can be said with regard to the implementation of the Single European Rail Area Directive, the so-called Recast Directive, to which this very Government has provided, with a particular focus on safety. We sent the implementing decree to the regions, which are examining it. Someone said that the implementing decree was late: it is true, the implementing decree of the Recast was thirty days late. It is an important implementing decree, because it allows again to classify some regional networks as networks that must immediately have an upgrade in terms of security and move from the supervision of the USTIF to the supervision of the National Security Agency. We sent this decree to the Regions at the beginning of February; of course the Regions know that from the moment the decree will be applied there will be a few months to adapt, with the risk of interrupting the regional public transport currently in operation. I would like to stress that there is a dialogue that has not started as a result of this misfortune, but it has emerged from the awareness that from the perspective of a somewhat more mature federalism, the State must not simply say "this is not my competence," but must be ready to cooperate and be at the side of the regions and local authorities in promoting local public transport. In conclusion, on this day of pain and mourning so difficult, we do not intend to dump responsibility on others, nor to point out delays in some administrative act or in the spending of some fund. I don't think this is the time. The best way to honour the victims, their families and their pain is to express today, on behalf of the Government, all the will to work hard, together with the regions and local authorities, to guarantee the right of all our citizens to mobility in full safety. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] and Misto-Idv).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u159	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Government. Senator Perrone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u160	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this will not be an intervention like the others, it cannot be. In these hours, my city, Corato, together with those of Andria, Ruvo di Puglia and Barletta, together with Puglia as a whole, are experiencing a dramatic moment. Cordoglio, solidarity, generosity, industriousness: these are the words that are traveling around the world and that best describe the image of my land. So, here, today, I want to speak first of all as a citizen, and I will speak with pain and anger. Twenty-three broken lives, twenty-three stories, faces, names of men, women, children and young people. I do not hide the difficulty, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in talking about it. I find it particularly difficult because those who, like me, spent the day yesterday at the scene of the accident, can and may never again be able to take away from their minds what they saw. These are images that no message of condolence or compensation can ever erase. For this reason, it is right to ask first of all for respect for the victims and their family members. A reflection is necessary, much more than any rhetoric, to try not to make this immense tragedy in vain. My fellow citizens, all the people of Puglia are wondering if this could be avoided. I read and feel that in these hours there are many reconstructions, more or less founded, more or less lawful; I regret that some of these, as well as not respecting the pain, paint situations very far from reality. Let us leave the analyses to the competent authorities, in which we place maximum confidence, so that we can quickly clarify what has happened: one of the most serious railway disasters in recent years. We want it to be lighted; we owe it to the families of the victims, to the friends, to the acquaintances of those people who yesterday, in the rubble, lost their lives. There would be so much more to say, maybe too much. I'm just saying that disaster is the most dramatic evidence of a system that doesn't work. But those who believe that the South surrenders or can bend before such tragedies, fail once again. We do not give in to horror and pain; the Apulian people have been able to show immense and extraordinary generosity, solidarity, industriousness and ability to cope with a tearing wound. I thank with my heart, in this House, the forces of order, all the institutions, doctors, civil protection and the many volunteers from all parts of Puglia who have intervened to help the tragedy of yesterday. I think the best way to redeem the missing people yesterday is to fight for the truth. I believe that the only useful way we can honour those victims is to propose concrete solutions. Minister Delrio, representing the Government, gives us a proper clarification. It is not up to me, and certainly none of us in this House today, to blame. Whether it was a human error or technical and security deficiencies is an issue on which investigations by the judiciary and competent authorities must take their course. However, what I would like to say in this House and in particular to you, Minister, that today in your speech to the House and then also here you enthusiastically announced the allocation of additional resources for rail transport, of which we note, is that putting liquidity into the local authorities' coffers cannot be considered panacea to all evils. The problem is not the resources available but the way in which they are used or, too often, not used because of bureaucratic constraints and obstacles related to public finances. We have been talking for 50 years about the South and the problems of the South, yet the country continues to run at separate speeds. Let us begin with the most urgent of needs: clear laws, rules that do not give rise to misunderstandings and a tangle of confused measures, which make even more complex the already tiring life of the local administrations. The tragedy of the railway accident in Puglia is the most dramatic evidence of the enormous damage that can produce a harmful and cumbersome state machine, at the price of human lives. In 2011, as Mayor of Corato, my administration approved the project that provided for the strengthening of the rail network of the Bari North, precisely on the Corato-Barletta route, which should have been completed using the structural funds of the European Community programming 2007-2013. Five years have passed and we are still talking about the award of the invitation to tender. Beyond any sterile controversy and whatever the responsibilities that must be determined in a swift manner, this shows an unforgivable delay son of a disastrous bureaucracy. And the tragedy, this time, has been faster than any bureaucracy. The rest, unfortunately, is sad news of the disaster that comes today from my land, known to all. In the face of such a huge tragedy, politics is questioning itself conscientiously, at all institutional levels, if it has done its part. In conclusion, and once again in my region, I ask you, Minister, to find the words and perhaps also the reasons for giving the most difficult answers to the most trivial of questions: why do these things still happen? For the respect of Puglia, of my people, and of all those who unfortunately still die in tragedies like this, tell us clearly what the government intends to do immediately. [[Applause from the CoR, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), PD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u161	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u162	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Delrio for being here this evening to report on this immense tragedy, from which we have all been very touched. On behalf of the Group of the North League, I reiterate my closeness to the relatives of the victims and, in particular, to the wounded, because there are many and many, unfortunately, still in very serious situations. We, Minister, will try to be proactive this evening. It is time to be proactive when a country undergoes these events, which can be called absurd, inconceivable and certainly incomprehensible in particular for our citizens. We have said this many times in the Commission, Minister: you know better than I do how anomalous our country, in the European scenario, is in the area of railways. We have a high-speed system that puts us at the top of the European scene as an efficiency and as a network and this is certainly a flagship of our country, but you know very well that when we go to talk about local transport instead, unfortunately we are at the last places and this is an anomaly that only in our country is found. To try to be proactive, Minister, let me once again make my contribution (and ours) on this issue. You spoke of your "iron cure," which on other occasions (I will not do so this evening) I have had the opportunity to discuss for the time, the ways and the system of financing. I want to give you, very quietly, a council, taking up what my colleague Perrone has just said: we insert in an incisive way in his care of iron the consideration that our country has resources engaged in the territory for works of railway infrastructure, for which the yards must leave, but the yards are stopped. I understand that there may have been some imperfection in Puglia from this point of view. I would remind you of a case on all of them, since it was pointed out, both yesterday and today, that the Mezzogiorno is suffering from this point of view: Minister, on the railway director Palermo-Messina there is a work, which is the doubling of the route Cefalù-Castelbuono, for which more than 335 million euros are available and work does not start on bureaucratic issues. Then in the care of iron - and we are at your side in this case - we do so, where there is the money committed and works that must leave, that the works leave Minister. It's very important. After that, if there are the billions of euros he told us about this evening, we trust it to be so. We will see that, Minister (and here too we will be at your side) if we ever go back to talking about privatization of the railways. We are not reluctant to talk about the privatisation of the railways, but we are a little hesitant when we hear your colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs, report very candidly to the Commission: we privatise the railways because we need to cash in. We don't agree very much with that and we know that maybe you don't think so. In the event that we go to privatise the railways and that this operation "has to be done," perhaps it would be an opportunity - and I know that you, Minister, have this idea in your heart - to relaunch the railway sector with regard to local public transport. I am beginning to conclude, Minister, and I give you another advice: we have eliminated the objective law, so the identification of strategic works is no longer the responsibility of the political debate, but it has become a discretionary decision of the Government. If it really is so discretionary, if we really want to identify strategic works with a certain method, let us ensure that in choosing the method for identifying strategic works, as far as the railways are concerned, safety is one of the parameters to be adopted. Let me use a little poison on this issue: I do not think it was a stroke of genius, as far as the tram of Florence is concerned (there are no numbers, with regard to users, and it is therefore not necessary as probably other railways for our country), to identify it among the 25 strategic works for the country. Perhaps there are other works at the moment - I say this very serenely, Minister - which deserve to be identified as strategic. We say this proactively: there are few resources, but those few resources we want to make available to local public transport. We recommend to you, so that privatisation - I have already said once that we are supporting you from this point of view and not for the Minister of Economy - is an opportunity to relaunch the railway sector for local public transport. For the rest, Minister, we trust that we will not once again have to talk about such immense tragedies, and we really hope to confront ourselves, albeit with a harsh debate, on planning and not be talking about deaths. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u163	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u164	Mr President, Minister, I appreciated the recognition of your speech that we all owe to those who, on the part of the State or with voluntary activity, yesterday gave a proof of dedication and cooperation that is honorable not only to them, but to the whole country. In addition, in the closing of your report, I also appreciated the Government's willingness not to discharge responsibility by administrative means. I sincerely believe that this will also requires that we do something more than wait for the judicial inquiry, trying to ascertain how things have gone and whether there are responsibilities. I believe that this is a task of politics and not just of the judiciary when events such as those which happened yesterday take place. With the same clarity I say to you that, on the other hand, some points of your speech have not convinced me. I am not convinced that, since for sixty years the warning system over the telephone has worked, this is not a critical element to be pointed out as an unacceptable delay. You see, Minister, in my region, a few kilometers from the place where that disaster took place, there is a company, the MERMEC (which I believe the President of the Council knows well and has also visited), which is the most important in the world in the field of railway safety. When you visit it you are amazed and wonder how it is possible that from a small center of the South of Italy you can control the state of the subway of Paris or Tokyo. This is the image of a South that boasts similar excellences and on the other hand has delays that in sixty years have not been able to fill. This cannot make us rest, nor can we simply record the fact that for sixty years it has gone well. These are delays that we should bear in mind, for which the Government should take responsibility. In the same way you are absolutely right in saying that the single track does not in itself imply insecurity, but it does imply lack of development and investment and I have never convinced the thesis that these investments are linked solely to users. This, in fact, is a cat that bites its tail: probably there are less users in the South because there are less infrastructure, because trains work worse, because there is much more unique track than elsewhere, even in some stretches where this is not historically justifiable. In this respect, I believe that we would have a duty to put two issues on the agenda and I take your speech only as the anticipation of much more full-bodied communications. These are two issues that emerge in all their strategic and epochal scope from what you have said. On the one hand there is the theme of the relationship between the State and the Regions, in front of a regional institution that is today within a limbo, in an indefinite situation: it is no longer the irresponsible body, even from the economic point of view, of the origins (of Law 281 of 1970), but has not yet found its own definition of autonomy and therefore of responsibility. And this figure comes out tragically from what you have told us and from the attempt to find agreements that are not at all obvious. On the other hand, there is the question of rail transport in the Mezzogiorno. Whoever takes a train from Rome down realizes that that is the metaphor of a bigger issue, of a gap between the North and the South that has returned to grow, as we were told by SVIMEZ in a "clamorous" way not long ago. That denunciation - I repeat, resounding - had no answer to the problem, which is now more than ever a national problem. At a time of difficulty such as today, in fact, if the gap grows, it means that Italy will not be able to emerge from the crisis. It is not conceivable, in fact, that growth is only on the shoulders of those parts of the country that are more developed. Our Mezzogiorno produces more than 30% of national GDP, not 3% like Corsica compared to France: we cannot treat it the same way. I have to say that I have seen the conclusions of the first tables between the Government and the Regions and the objectives they have set themselves; it is really difficult, even with good will, to trace a strategy. In the past years there have been major debates on the southern question, on the need to leave it to the spontaneism of the territories and the regions or to have a centralistic strategy. Those options may have been somewhat ideological, but they were options and lines of development; there is nothing today. We cannot say that our southern policy is a bad policy, because in reality there is no policy. If what has happened - outside of the controversy - will lead us to put this problem on the agenda as a national problem and as a problem of national cohesion, perhaps that will be the best way to honour the innocent victims who yesterday lost their lives even because of remote backwardness. That ant people, who have been crushed by something greater, will be able to return to being a proud, hardworking and peaceful people because they had the answers they expected to have. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), FI-PdL XVII and CoR]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u165	Senator Amoruso is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, there are not enough words to describe the sadness and pain caused by a tragedy of immeasurable proportions, such as yesterday between Andria and Corato. We could never have thought, in 2016, in an era of extraordinary development in terms of technology and communications, of having to find ourselves debating a clash between trains, of having to deal with an impressive situation, so, in the area of the accident, it was even necessary to set up a real field hospital. Yet it has happened and we here today find ourselves paying a heartfelt homage to the victims and clinging to the panging pain of their loved ones. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that it is not time for controversy or exploitation. Of course, in the coming days and colder minds, we will be able and will have to look into issues that have also been brought to light in the press by yesterday's disaster, starting with the lack of doubling - although planned and financed for many years - of the railway route in question and the lack of any safety system along it. Moreover, we are sure that the institutions responsible will do everything in their power to understand what has happened and why. It is absolutely necessary to clarify as quickly as possible the causes and, therefore, the dynamics of the accident. Given the disastrous proportions of the tragedy, it will certainly be a complex job, but it will necessarily have to lead to clear answers: it is due to the memory of the victims, as well as to their family members, but also, colleagues, to the entire country that has witnessed dismay, with dismay and participation in what happened. But now, I repeat, is the time of pain and prayer, as well as of solidarity, that I wish to direct to the families of the victims, also on behalf of the AL-A Parliamentary Group. Speaking of solidarity, I believe it is absolutely important to share a reflection on this country that - I feel like saying it without rhetoric - followed with apprehension and real participation what happened. Often, sometimes with reason, even as a mirror of the exasperated tensions that are recorded in the parliamentary classrooms, we consider the country divided within it and not sufficiently supportive in today's age marked by globalization and by social and economic tensions of epochal scope, but in times of difficulty and pain that same country shows a human face and solidarity of extraordinary thickness. I would like to make a particular reference to the generosity and warmth shown by the multitude of Apulian citizens living in the territories of Bari and Northern Bari who went to the hospital facilities, giving an extraordinary response to the requests in this regard, but also in many cases anticipating them, in order to donate their blood in the face of the emergency that has occurred. I found the statements of some of the many medical students who, being there to study, lined up at the Policlinico di Bari moving. In the hospital in Andria, even, to manage in an orderly way the endless offers of blood, last night was decided a stop waiting to resume activities this morning. These are the values of solidarity and brotherhood that on many occasions have allowed our country to face moments of extreme pain and absolute difficulty. These values, moreover, I have also found in the undefeited work of the Forces of the Order, of the firemen, of the volunteers, of the Civil Protection and of the health workers, protagonists of an immense engagement between the sheets of the trains. Yesterday's genuine race for solidarity and generosity in health structures is a moving example of this. Minister, I welcome the speed with which both you and the President-in-Office of the Council went to the place of disaster yesterday, as well as to your words, measured and careful, aimed at communicating on the one hand the closeness of the Government and on the other the total respect for the work of the judiciary and of all the bodies responsible for making light. What has happened - in conclusion, I address to the Government, in the context of its tasks, this brief reflection - must make us understand how much still has to be done for the safety of infrastructures in many parts of the country, especially in the Mezzogiorno that unfortunately still has unbearable gaps today. What tragedies like this never happen again! [[Applause from the AL-A and PD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u167	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u168	Mr President, Minister, huge tragedies like these cannot see us resigned and we must not resign ourselves. The actual situation is this: a single track line, an electrified line, new rolling stock, treats without particular geomorphological complexity, but a low-frequency line of movement (at least this is the information I have). However, it is planned to double the line with important appropriations in years that are still long gone. There are also the differences in legislation between the management of national and local lines and the possibility of intervening in distant moments when electrification has taken place. I have summarized this situation, because certainly the responsibility of the current Government does not exist and are indeed appreciated the timely intervention and the sensitivity shown with respect to the territories, families and all those who have been involved in the tragic story that we face. It is also likely that this is the result of a human error, due to the absence of modern and adequate signalling and security systems: that is the point. In the past, expensive doubling has been chosen, instead of securing the line immediately. On this point I would like to draw the attention of all of us Members of Parliament, who often ask for substantial appropriations for our territories, but not rational appropriations. Because for that territory, before doubling, being a low frequency and low geomorphological difficulty line, an appropriate signalling system would have sufficed. Mr Quagliariello recalled the presence in our country and also in those areas of professional and entrepreneurial skills of primary global importance. It is true: Italy is at the forefront of the system of railway control and the production of railway systems. We thought, however, that this territory needed doubling, because it was important to bring 100 or 150 million euros to that territory, in order to carry out a great work. Mr Quagliariello also said that doubling was needed because it means development. That is not the case, my colleague, because development goes through security and not through irrational investments, which, among other things, carry behind the deprivation, even for other pieces of territory, of resources that could instead be invested to avoid the dangers existing. Certainly in Italy it is not only that line that lacks an adequate signalling and security system, but there is the race to the important appropriations, to make doubles and works, to "hang on the chest as decorations" for those who carry out parliamentary activity. I had the honor to have the guide of an important company in the North, which carried out activities in the field of tires and railway, the SATTI of Turin, today a consortium company of the Municipality of Turin. Well, in making important investments in the rail sector we have had two problems: that of rolling stock and that of safety on the line. Of course, electrification is also an important element, but together with electrification, colleagues, the implementation of an adequate control and signalling system and up to the level of the situation can be implemented with very limited resources. Mr Borioli, who has been city council member for the transport of the Piedmont Region, knows what I mean. Therefore, responsibility is certainly in fate and may be sought by the judiciary, which will do so, but I believe that responsibility lies also in our choices, which are often dictated by interests of a territorial nature that escape the principle of primary responsibility, which must lead to the question whether what we ask is useful or not to our territory and to our country. I often remember it in other places, but I want to remember it here too: as senators we are parliamentarians of the Italian Republic and not of one piece of one territory rather than another. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE),PD and CoR]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u169	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u170	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, words such as'sorry','strazio' and 'deep mourning' are recurrent here today, but I confess, outside all rituals, that since yesterday morning I have been holding my feelings like a knot in the throat and investing me, not only as a senator of the Republic and as an Italian citizen, but above all - you will understand - as a Puglia. Since yesterday the images of those sheets become crumbs, of those faces of the pain that from the Apulian countryside have reached the whole of Italy, but also of the men and women close to me, friends or only acquaintances, who travel daily that stretch of road, that piece of 70 kilometers of railroad once again stained with blood and pain, a pain that I believe unfair and unacceptable. In the face of this tragedy the first categorical imperative must be the need not to give life to inappropriate exercises of political jackaling in every direction both from the center towards the periphery - the Regions - and in the opposite direction. In the same way, we are obliged not to dress this terrible incident as a vile opportunity to settle political accounts. It is time to overcome the narration that is usually grafted on the limit of these tragedies; a narration that becomes, especially in our Mezzogiorno, dear colleague Buemi, almost a cursed spell, because, after the emergency, everything returns as damned as before, or at least almost everything, if we think of who will remain with the heartbreaking pain of the loss of one's loved one. They are heartening - it does not seem superfluous for me to reclaim it too - the prompt response of the rescue machine, the great solidarity of the Italian people and the generosity of the Apulians; but it is not enough: this must be a warning to act diligently and wisely. I therefore sincerely thank Minister Delrio for his timely and measured report on yesterday's tragic event, but also for the immediate reaction (and, after him, the President of the Council) to the place of this appalling confrontation. Minister, today, in my opinion, from this House and from the Italian Parliament, but - above all - from the dust of that red earth, burned and burned up by the scorching sun of the countryside of Andria and Corato, must emerge the will to finally and definitively engage the innovation in the infrastructure system for our whole country: everything and not just a piece. Italy is divided into two, dear colleague Buemi. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no sophisms and even less sophists who dare to say and support the opposite. And Italy is not divided into two parts for the sole responsibility of the people of the South or of those who administer it. Let us look at reality with the loyalty that is due to an entire community that questions itself. To be loyal means, for example, not to linger on the figures. I refer only to one simple, but noisy and emblematic one, reported this morning by some media: the 5 billion investments directed with the unlock Italy of 2014 to the infrastructures are distributed as follows: 60 million euros - I repeat, 60 million - to the South of Florence and all the rest to the North. In other words, 1.2 percent versus 98.8 percent. Dear colleague Buemi, dear colleague of the North League, these are the numbers. In a nutshell, what you spend to quadruple the only stretch that connects Lucca to Pistoia is equal to all the expenditure that belongs to the whole Mezzogiorno. I insist only to continue to give shape to this monstrosity: in all the South the commuting trains are less than those of the Lombardy alone. As if that were not enough, tight in the grip of lacked investment in infrastructure, all that remains is further sprinkled and attacked by the policy of cost reduction - the so-called spending review - carried out by both the public and the private often in the worst direction, the one that bites on the living flesh of the people, the weakest. Local public transport bites there. The element that today emerges from those crumbled sheets, then, is that on the Bari Nord route a system of signaling the occupied tracks was not still active, that is a safety system that blocks the train in case of footprint on the tracks. Binari, these, interested in the last decades from numerous accidents (more than 120 accidents in the last fifteen years) and from as many, too many victims, that have accompanied the existence of that piece of railway infrastructure. Numbers that in fact restore the certainty that what happened yesterday on that stretch of Apulian railway cannot be framed exclusively in the case of human error. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the search for human error, we must have the courage not to limit our gaze to the finger, but we must aim for the moon. Attributing the entire blame to the phonogram or to the failure of the phonogram, to a phone call made or missed, to a wrong interpretation of the "free way" by one of the drivers or both means not to understand and continue to ignore, still in 2016, that in some parts of Italy has not done properly to apply obvious and already operating systems that reduce human error, reduce the risk and increase safety. We cannot seek the distraction of the driver if we continue to ignore that of the legislator, and therefore also ours, in addressing the issue of the inadequacy of infrastructures in some regions of our country. It is a real problem of cohesion. Students and workers - all commuters - tell us about a condition of the regional and local railways unbearable. And at this moment my thoughts return to the South-East Railways, which tell us a story of waste and scandals to which I hope this Government finally wants to remedy, which is not only a brake, but a damn ballast for the development of these lands, a shameful discomfort to which in cases like this is added also the risk burden. I shall conclude my speech, Mr President, by asking and calling for an extraordinary intervention from the Government and an immediate commitment from the relevant institutions. Otherwise, there is a real risk that the victims will again be outraged and that this crime will continue to be committed against an entire territory and an entire community that is being questioned. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u171	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u172	Minister, thank you for the sensitivity shown by you and the President of the Council and for the timely reference to the events that have taken place today. We have all experienced the tragedy that took place in Puglia and all of us, as representatives of the Italians, struggle with great grief of solidarity with the families of the victims. We have done so and we have repeated it; but these expressions of solidarity are never too many, in this moment of pain, for the families of Apulia. We join and join the chorus of appreciation and praise for how the machine of Civil Protection, the firemen and solidarity all worked, which the Apulian people proudly managed to set in motion. However, we learn with astonishment and alarm from your report some notes that clearly surprise us. I am referring to the single rail safety system with the telephone block; it is clearly something that alarms us. I do not think so much about the presence of the single track, but about the use of this type of safety system, which I think should be out of date. So I realize that if there is still the telephone block in the line that is the subject of today's tragedy, there are no special sensors on the entire railway line that signal, block by block, if the line is occupied. From other information I have assumed, I have known that the safety of operation on all the railway lines of the Country, that it is not within the competence of the RFI, between which the Ferrotranviaria SpA or the Circumetnea, unfortunately is not entrusted to the National Agency for the safety of the railways (ANSF). Therefore, the traveler is not guaranteed the best and appropriate international standards of railway safety and the appropriate state-of-the-art technologies in the sector. Unfortunately, therefore, the commuter service and the tourist service to which these lines are referred are neglected. Minister, in order to avoid other possible disasters and to ensure the best prevention of risk, it is certainly necessary to guarantee the best safety, reliability and efficiency of all railway lines, especially regional ones at the service of commuters and tourism, which have not so far been subjected, from what I understand, to the strict international standards and to the strict and effective supervision and control of the National Railway Safety Agency. Therefore, if it is true that the single track - you have recalled the accident in Germany - that is found in more than half of the railway network managed from the RFI is not as such the cause of lack of safety, it must be asked why the technology, that it flows decisively and almost mathematics in case of human inefficiencies, is compulsory and operating only on the part managed directly from the RFI and not on that date in concession. Obviously, we also need to review the agreements and concession contracts with private companies. The government, in my opinion, must therefore be activated because the operational control of this part of the railway network, considered secondary or local, passes to the direct competences (non-management skills, clearly) and to the control of the safety of the RFI, in order to make homogeneous the degree of safety throughout the Country and to assure, at the same time, targeted investments in technology and adequate improvements of the levels of quality of the regional transport. Yesterday's disaster, however, Mr President, can provide the basis for broader reasoning, because it has been said by many of my colleagues that there is certainly a two-speed Italy in railway infrastructure. I have to report briefly the case of my Sicily, where there is the greatest imbalance in Italy between single track routes (1,200 km) and double track routes (only 180 km). The Palermo-Messina railway, which has been the subject of my many questions (unfortunately unanswered), which is a main railway manager of Sicily and connects the two important cities mentioned, 60% is single-track. There is also a lack of preliminary design and planning on this issue. I therefore invite you, Minister, as I did at the time of Mr Lupi and as I shall continue to do, to ensure that we can have a preliminary draft to be included in the programming. I refer to Senator Buemi's intervention, because it is true that local authorities and Provinces sometimes do not report enough, because they are asking for things that probably need less than what they actually need. Minister, I would also ask you to look closely at the Southern Plan, because all the project requests and planning that come from this programme will probably not help to bridge the infrastructure weaknesses, which are important. The money from the South Plan is not used to do urban redevelopment or to put a cocktail on a mayor's chest, but it is also used to remedy these chronic problems. In conclusion, I would like to say that the truth is that our institutions, at all levels and with the necessary degree of coordination with private operators, must learn how to plan, plan and spend resources, which in many cases also exist, for regional and local transport. An infrastructural endowment, technologically advanced in the railway field of the entire Country, triggers a virtuous circle towards the economic development and the increase of the occupation and, at the same time, can reduce drastically the possibilities that our society is upset by a tragedy like that that that avant'eri has hit the Apulian community and Italy all. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u173	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u174	Mr President, first of all, we express closeness and solidarity to the people affected, but we also thank the rescuers and blood donors, who have done so quickly to minimise the consequences of the disaster. This, however, is certainly not to be considered an accident. There are negligences that must not be sought in personnel, but above all in the chain of command and in the decision, a priori, to pass railway trains on lines which are not adequately safeguarded from the possibility of the accident resulting from the human factor. The staff are also the victims of this tragedy. Now is not the time to make controversy and therefore I do not want to dwell on the amount of money allocated to the North rather than to the South or for the high speed rather than for the local public transport or for the color of the cars rather than for the air conditioner: now it is time to go more in concrete, to go and see what are the possible solutions to prevent these accidents happen again. I have heard of a telephone block, but I would call it more appropriate telephone consent, because it is not a block to all intents and purposes. Therefore, telephone consent leaves the possibility of error and a fallacious interpretation of communications, therefore, the incident can happen. Luckily it only happened a few times, because it could happen many more. As has rightly been said, it is not the fault of the single track, because on the single track you can safely intervene with security systems that appropriately avoid these possibilities of incidentality. What is missing and to be condemned is the lack of SCMT (train gear control system), of encoded or banalized current blocks or of any technological or signalling infrastructure that allows the convoys to pass without any interference between them. Another problem is the concession lines, because at present (I will go specifically) the concession lines derive not from the national offices of the ANSF, therefore not from the National Agency for the Safety of the Railways, but from the USTIF, that is from the special office transports to fixed installations. This implies, however, a certain freedom, even for the regions, to choose the quality standard of infrastructure, trains, rolling stock and so on. That is why we are for a public infrastructure, because in any case a state can guarantee a better level of safety. FS lines don't have this kind of blockage, telephone consent, which was removed several years ago. So, that's one of the reasons why we're for public infrastructure. Then, the manager may be private, possibly, but with rules of engagement, as has been said at other times, well specified. Security must be a priority over anything. Rather than being politically critical, we would like to make an operational proposal. In fact, we'd like to do at least four. You've already practically defined one, Minister. First of all he spoke of about 600 kilometers of lines with telephone consent; we would like a census of the lines that are actually in this state or in similar states and therefore have a concentration of these critical situations. Second proposal: the Recast Directive and the Fourth Railway Package talk about interoperability, but it is relegated to 2019; we call for interoperability to be introduced from this afternoon, so that these things do not happen again and the safety standards pass entirely to the NSAF. This would mean the introduction of blocks to safeguard the paths. Arrive to the third proposal: given that the time would be too long for the installation of normal blocks (cable, with report cables, garrisons and anything else), a good solution to anticipate the times and avoid further accidents of this kind could be the introduction of ERTMS level 2. I know that in Lombardy a level 2 ERTMS is being tested on the traditional lines: it is the radio block, just to say the least. The radio block would be easy to introduce, much faster and certainly at lower installation costs. It would be immediately operational and that is what we are asking for now. If we really want to do something for the citizens, so that no more accidents of this kind can happen, we need to operate immediately and we need that money that you call the "iron cure" - I don't want to make controversy - to be spent immediately in safety and security, because this must be done. You can't talk about anything but security. I have come from twenty years of work in the field of railway signalling and I can assure you that Italian railway signalling is a flagship and has always been a source of pride for Italian railway operators. Let's not make him our Achilles heel. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Campanella, Padua and Santini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u175	Senator Matteoli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u176	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much for your prompt response to your request from several quarters, including the Commission for public works and communications which I am honored to preside over, to inform you about the railway disaster. Beyond the political affiliation of each of us, I believe that we must acknowledge that you have taken prompt action on the site of the disaster and for this reason, on behalf of the Group of Forza Italia, I thank you. I understand perfectly well that it would not have been possible after twenty-four hours to have all the information on the accident, nor above all to have the confidence of the causes that have led to this tragic frontal confrontation between two convoys. But even his words show that something did not work in the security system. It is therefore necessary for the victims, their families and to ensure that such events can be avoided in the future. I have no doubt that the truth will be acclaimed, but, also because of the experience that I have been able to mature in the field, I would advise you to be alert, to monitor with the utmost attention the evolution of the investigations stimulating the investigators to do quickly and if possible well. Today, however, opening the newspapers, I had a surprise: it would appear that the only culprit of the disaster is the one track. Unfortunately, even in this tragic circumstance, the sensationalism, the immediate search for a culprit is privileged and is found in a completely arbitrary and incredible way to offer it quickly to the public. This time it is the turn of the single track and, of course, of the entire political class of the country, unable to have not been able to spend carefully the public money, not realizing the double track throughout Italy and a modern iron net. That's crazy. We all know that in Italy more than 60% of the railway line is one-track, in line with Europe: that is also the case in Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Buemi and Di Biagio]] If this is then the railway infrastructure reality and if really the culprit were the only track, of tragedies like this Apulian should count to hundreds. Fortunately it is not so because, as the technicians of the branch explain us, unique binary is not synonymous with insecurity. The double track does not offer greater guarantees of safety - you said it very well too - but greater capacity for rail traffic. In fact, 100 percent of the network managed by the RFI are installed the most modern security systems that manage to prevent accidents like that happened in Puglia. There are, on the other hand, short stretches of regional network that have not yet installed modern security systems and that operate with anti-Luvian mechanisms, such as the use of the telephone, with which they communicate headsets and drivers. It seems - and you have confirmed this today - that the route where the disaster occurred falls into the latter case and it is clear that something has not worked in the communication between train drivers and trainmasters. Today every effort must first be directed to find out what and why it did not work, even before referring to any personal responsibilities of some employee. I say a banality, but it is clear that there was a train too much on that track: there is no doubt about this. Taking on the disaster of the Ferrotramviaria of Bari to throw the cross on politics, its inefficiencies, its waste seems improper and demagogic. This - and I want to make it quite clear - does not mean that we must carry out everything and all or that we should discharge responsibility. I simply want to say that, in the face of a disaster that has caused so many victims and wounds, we must act rationally avoiding exploitation of what has happened and I think - and I thank my fellow Members for that - that so far there have been no such thing in the current debate and I believe that this is an important step forward in the recovery of politics in our country. I therefore believe that the attention and financial effort must be stepped up immediately in order to plug the gaps in safety systems, adapting them as quickly as possible to the most modern technologies, and at the same time to seek in every way to modernise the secondary railway network which, especially in some areas of the South, is dilapidated and inadequate. Minister, you wanted to stress today that the Government of which you are a member has reversed the trend of the past. You see, Minister, the number of appropriations on paper, which often move from one chapter to another, or which are recovered because they are not spent before, or that at the last moment they are diverted to other choices perhaps because of emergencies of all kinds, of financing that does not turn into real achievements, you could write many volumes. Nevertheless, if the reversal of the trend to which you referred really should be crowned by tangible facts, that is, by infrastructural achievements, we will gladly acknowledge it because we believe, by the power of government as we have been and want to return to being, that the country and the interest of the citizens come first of all. Having said that and returning to the single track (I apologize if I insist, but the reading of the newspapers this morning has made me nervous), make me think in a simplistic way that it was possible and necessary to realize the double track everywhere, I find it a boutade that only serves to make confusion, throw discredit and alarm citizens. In conclusion, I would like to confirm to the Minister and the Government that the Commission that I chair is ready to make every contribution, as it has always done over the years. Finally, I would like - and I do not apologize for using this term, which is improper for what I am about to say - to convey the sympathy of the Forza Italia Group to the families of the victims so badly affected, a wish for prompt recovery to the wounded and a thank you to the rescuers who once again carry out their work with commitment and great professionalism. Thanks also to all the volunteers and those who, in a race of commendable solidarity, gave blood to save so many lives. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u177	He's enlisted to speak Senator Filippi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u178	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with the story of the pain felt in learning about the tragic railway accident, but it is really difficult to say what it is like to see so many lives broken on a normal day, like so many people, while they were not afraid of anything because they were doing that every day, maybe for so many years. Then I can limit myself to expressing the genuine closeness of myself and my Group to all the relatives of the victims and all the injured, together with the promise to ensure that the truth of the causes is established quickly and thoroughly. The stories and faces of the too many victims of this tragedy will emerge in the next few days; for all of us will be stories and faces that will come back to mind, until tormenting us, whenever we are called to work to improve the rail transport system in our country. And this is not a promise but a guarantee. Our President of the Republic rightly called it an unacceptable disaster, and indeed it is. This was not to happen and for which we cannot, and must not, resign ourselves to the hypothesis of fatality. But staying here in this House trying to define responsibilities from a distance would be a wrong act; what we now have to do is try to understand what we can do more and better to prevent such tragedies from happening again. We know that the rail transport of commuters is a long time in difficulty throughout our territory, because it has been neglected for a long time and because it continues not to be considered profitable. We also know that the company that had the concession is a small company, that it had been able however to realize an efficient and modern structure of connection between the airport of Bari and the center. So we are not faced with a structural inability or a backward South story; we are, more likely, faced with a series of causes that, combined, generated the risk and, unfortunately, the tragedy. Structural causes, such as the lack of double track (which had been financed for a long time and the contract was being awarded) and above all security, still entrusted only to telephone communications, and perhaps human causes, which will certainly be carefully examined. Conflicting feelings have been experienced by the whole country all day yesterday. Moreover, a tragedy of impressive proportions such as that which occurred instinctively arouses apprehension and pain, but also anger and dismay. He also raises intransigence to know the truth, to acclaim responsibility and consequently to demand justice. But also feelings of genuine emotion to cling to to continue to hope in life and want, this time really, never to repeat again. Commotion has been stirred by the many tears seen pouring, but even more by the silences and amazement of the lost eyes of those who cannot be capable. I would like to thank, on behalf of my Group, all those in this House who have worked incessantly to help the victims: the volunteers, the doctors and the paramedics, the members of the various police forces, the prefecture that has collaborated with the civil protection system. A heartbreaking commitment that still goes on now. Great emotion I have also felt for the thousands of ordinary citizens who spontaneously poured into hospitals, to make the most spontaneous and useful gesture: donating blood to meet the needs. More than other times an Italy has appeared which, in the inadmissibility of the tragedy, has given the impression of knowing what must be done in these circumstances. The rescue machine immediately set in motion and was ready for use. The culture of civil protection has grown in recent years thanks to the work of widespread education, starting from schools as a first awareness, and to the periodic exercises that state services and voluntary associations carry out to improve the integration of their performance. In this context, I believe that everyone can agree that you too, Minister, and the President-in-Office of the Council have done your duty. Not only have you been where you should have been, although not always in the past it has happened, but you have also said and done what in these circumstances is due. I would like to say to Mr Perrone that there has been no expression of live enthusiasm for the ongoing investments by the Minister, but the awareness of immediately activating all the resources available to understand well what happened, ensuring to the relatives and survivors all the necessary support, with the full collaboration of the Region and the municipalities of the area. Yet, even in these difficult times we are obliged to look ahead. Looking ahead must mean that investment in safety in automatic protection systems cannot provide for any exception, whether it concerns sections of the State Railways or, even more so, the railways granted. Being a normal country means not making a distinction of priority in terms of security between market services and universal services, between regional routes and high-speed lines. Certainly the pain reminds us of the disaster of Crevalcore and the devastating tragedy of Viareggio, even if we know that it is a different case. But if memory goes spontaneously to these tragedies it is because mass collective transport, mainly used by students and workers, cannot allow for indulgent approximations or attitudes. I would like to point out to Senator Quagliariello that committees of inquiry have already been set up at the various institutional levels. I would like to say that Parliament will insist that it is kept informed on time in the seats of Parliament not only to demand the right to know the dynamics of the event, but above all to take, if necessary, as I believe, the legislative measures that will become more appropriate. Learning from tragedies is the only serious answer we can give to make sure that we no longer have to cry for unacceptable deaths. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u179	I declare closed the discussion on the information of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u180	We thank Minister Delrio.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence did not conclude its examination of the framework law on international missions on the agenda. The examination of the measure will take place in the afternoon sitting of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u184	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, it is all too often the case that in Italy we are dealing with issues relating to the lack of respect for the landscape and the environment, which is taking place in these hours in Ostuni, a splendid Apulian town, a tourist and seaside place, where a sewage collection pool is being built. The problem, in this case, is where you want to achieve it. President, the sewage tank is being built on a free beach in a place called Pilone; yes, right on the beach next to the sea, which is also subject to landscape constraints. It is a protected area with strong tourist value and exactly in front of or, better still, a few meters from an ancient Saracen tower, which is, therefore, a tourist-cultural destination. Moreover, the area is also bordered by an area of Community interest. The population, including the local administration, has risen against this wicked decision and - be careful - not against the realization of the pool, which must be done, but on the choice of the place. The Consorzio Villaggio Torre San Leonardo di Pilone proposes an alternative project that includes the same work, but 300 meters inland, away from the beach and the sea, a place, among other things, foreseen in the original project dating back to 2005 and which had also become an executive project but never realized. Some representatives of the Apulian Aqueduct company, at the hearing at the Commission on territory, environment and environmental goods, gave, months ago, two essential reasons for the non-acceptance of the alternative project: the first linked to technical problems due to the slope of a road and the second that the work started had now been carried out by 70%. Well, the technical documentation provided by the Committee, the citizens and the mayor does not have any slopes to affect the work. In addition, I personally carried out a survey and verified exactly this, but also that it was not true that 70 percent of the work had been carried out and that the works already carried out were still compatible with the alternative project. Given the strong opposition of the population, the president of the Region of Puglia, Emiliano, about four months ago had promised a new conference of services in order to compare the two projects, but it seems that he has turned back, taking back the word given. I therefore find it extremely serious not only to realize this tank in a place not suitable and at environmental risk, but I also find it serious that Emiliano mocks the citizens of Apulia. I hope that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will take a more detailed look at this issue and accept my request for an assigned deal. I also hope that the Apulian Region will be able to realise the grave error and reconsider it, allowing the citizens to participate in such an important decision. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u185	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-659.ana.u186	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 14 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.09 p.m.
