ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 22 December 2015. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins. I suspend the sitting pending the outcome of the Conference of Leaders, which is in progress. (The sitting was suspended at 9.38 a.m. and resumed at 10.56 a.m.) The session is resumed. I take the opportunity to wish everyone a happy New Year. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u4	We greet the students and the students of the Secondary School of First Degree "Massimiliano Massimo" in Rome, who are following our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders approved changes and additions to the current timetable. This week the examination of the draft law delegates on procurement and, in accordance with the times, of the bill on the integration of foreign minors in sports clubs remains confirmed. At the request of a parliamentary group, today's afternoon sitting will begin at 3.30 p.m. and end at 6.30 p.m. In the unique sessions of Tuesday, 19 January (starting at 3 p.m.) and Wednesday, 20 January, the discussion will take place on the second Senate resolution on the draft law for the reform of the Constitution. Explanations of vote will begin on Wednesday at 5 p.m. At the afternoon sitting on Thursday 21, at 9 a.m., Minister Orlando will report on the administration of justice. The time for discussion will be allocated so as to conclude the examination by 12.45 p.m. In relation to the new schedule, the renewal of the standing committees is postponed by 24 hours and will therefore take place on Thursday 21 January, according to the timetable already established. Communications on composition will have to reach the Presidency by Tuesday 19 January. In the afternoon of Thursday 21 the meeting of question time with the Minister for Economic Development remains confirmed. In the afternoon of Tuesday, January 26 will be discussed the motion of distrust to the Government presented by the Forza Italia and Lega groups. In the single session of Wednesday 27 January will be discussed the decree-law on the transfer to third parties of the ILVA company. Therefore, the follow-up of the Civil Unions Bill will take place from Thursday 28 January. The other topics already foreseen in the previous schedule of proceedings will be taken into account in the subsequent calendars together with the draft ratification law No. 1949 and the delegation for the reform of the honorary judiciary, of which the urgency has been represented. Finally, I would like to say that the composition of the Senate has been confirmed in the parliamentary delegation to the Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, has adopted, pursuant to Article 53 of the Regulation, the following programme of work for the months of January, February and March 2016: - Drawing of law n. 1678-B - Delegations to the Government for the implementation of directives 2014/23/EU, 2014/24/EU and EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 26 February 2014, on the award of concession contracts, on public contracts and on the procurement procedures of the agencies operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, and on the reorganization of the current discipline in the field of public contracts relating to works, services and supplies (Approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final Voto with the presence of the legal number) -Design of Law n. 1871 - Provisions to facilitate the social integration of foreign children resident in Italy by admission to sports companies belonging to national federations, to the disciplines or to the promotional bodies (Approved by the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of 14 Members of Parliamentary Chambers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u7	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted by a majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable: [[Wednesday 13 January ant. h. 9,30-13 - Following draft law n. 1678-B - Directive transposing directives and concessions (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Draft law n. 1871 - Integration of minor foreigners in sports clubs (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) " " pom. h. 15,30-18,30 Thursday 14 " ant. h. 9,30-14 Thursday 14 January pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday 19 January pom. h. 15 - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1429-D - Revision of Part II of the Constitution (Second Resolution of the Senate) (final vote by absolute majority of the members of the Senate) Wednesday 20 " ant. h. 9.30 Thursday 21 January ant. h. 9-12,45 - Report by the Minister of Justice on the administration of justice Thursday 21 January pm. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Economic Development]] The Permanent Commissions will be convened for their renewal, pursuant to Article 21 (7) of the Regulation, Thursday 21 January at the following times: Commissions from 1st to 7th at 1 p.m. Commissions from 8th to 13th at 3 p.m. Commission 14th at 4 p.m. [[Tuesday, January 26 pom. h. 16,30 - Discussion of motion No 501, Centinario, Paolo Romani, of distrust to the Government Wednesday 27 January ant. h. 9,30 - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 191, transfer to third company ILVA (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 2 February) Thursday 28 January ant. h. 9,30-14 - Following bill n. 2081 and related - Discipline of de facto couples and civil unions Thursday 28 January pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to the draft law No... (Decree-Law No 191, transfer to third ILVA companies) must be submitted by 5 p.m. on Thursday 21 January. Amendments to draft law No 2081 (Discipline of de facto couples and civil unions) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Friday 22 January. Time distribution for discussion of the Minister of Justice's Report on the Administration of Justice (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: PD 40' FI-PdL XVII 20' M5S 19' AP (NCD-UDC) 18' Mixed 17' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 15' AL-A 14' GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id) 13' LN-Aut 12' COR 12' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 191, transfer to third ILVA) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 29' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 23' GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissententi 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u10	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, the first thing I would like to do is to make a proposal for an amendment on the inclusion of constitutional reforms in the timetable, proposing that this should be scheduled when the Commission's examination is completed. I take this opportunity, Mr President, to give you all my regret, because frankly, I am truly deceived by what has happened before and on this occasion. We have to deal with the constitutional bill at third reading. I would remind you that in the previous passage the draft law was brought to the House without a rapporteur and, thanks to an amendment to which we have not yet had access in the acts, it was even possible to prevent its subeminability. Let us therefore return to the constitutional issues. For the record, the three months since the previous Senate approval expire today: the House of Deputies then approved the text on 11 January - and it has been known for quite some time, that this would only happen on that date - and therefore until 13 April it will not be able to approve anything, because the three months provided for in the Constitution will have to run. Having said that, we would have had plenty of time to deal quietly, discuss and deepen the text. We know that there can be no agendas, references and amendments, but - lively God! - at least we could have spoken, because otherwise this becomes a 'Silence' and not a Parliament, since we are also being deprived of the right to speak [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Milo and Liuzzi]] Something really hit me here. In the Bureau yesterday afternoon, in the first Commission, the President pointed out to the Commission the need to schedule this afternoon the report in the Commission on constitutional reform, having heard of a Conference of the Leaders, which would be held today at 9 a.m., and that, presumably - there were already news agencies even talking about the date on which the final vote would take place - the draft Constitutional Reform Act would be scheduled in the House. Punctually, while we are being informed of this, we receive a message concerning the convening of the Conference of Leaders. At today's meeting of the Capigroup, on the basis of an advanced state of examination by the Commission - as President Zanda told us and we repeated that we did not even begin to examine it, but that the measure was only scheduled - the timetable for the debate on constitutional reform was called for as early as Tuesday and Wednesday. So let us make a timetable in the Commission, on the basis of a group leader to be held the next day. Today, on the basis of what was decided yesterday in the Commission, we decide to include the measure in the timetable for this House, but is it first the egg or the hen? Here comes a duck: other than egg and chicken! Frankly, Mr President, I have been fooled, because it is all linked to requirements that have nothing to do with constitutional reforms, nor with the institution. So did the rocks! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and D'Alì and De Pin Senators]] It's been almost three years since we renewed the Commissions. We are approaching the end of the three years and the renewal of the Commissions had previously decided to do so at the end of the Stability Act, then the deadline of 20 January for the renewal of the Commissions has been set and now it is asked to move forward this term, even of only twenty-four hours, provided, however, that the day before we vote for the reforms. The point of this is quite clear to me: the majority, or rather the government, are afraid of not having 161 votes to get the constitutional reform approved in the House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And he thinks he's gonna win them over by saying, Dear children, colleagues in the majority, if you want the Presidencies and Vice-Presidents of the Commissions, you must vote for the reforms. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and CoR Groups]] Having said that, I do not understand and I am sorry that someone has agreed to vote in this way, because we really need to be self-injurers. Perhaps it has been done because after that there will be Damocles' sword of the renewal of the so-called positions of government, so they keep them suspended in order to be able to bring home some more votes. My fellows, the majority of government with these blackmails is shown that it no longer exists: it is realized only with the renewal of the offices and the armchairs. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group, CoR and Senator Simeoni]] Afterwards, with good peace of mind, after the constitutional reforms with the official and political majority will be approved, we will go quietly to approve the bill on civil unions by making a new majority between PD, M5S and SEL. Is that consistency? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I say this to you, because to expect a day and a half in the Commission and two days in the Chamber next week, to have even accepted the request of the New Right Centre to set a closing time and for the final vote, means, on the one hand, that we are already thinking of going home and, on the other hand, it does not interest anything in the most absolute way and, secondly, that once again, the timetable for constitutional reform is being suspended. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I appreciated, Mr President, when you refused this morning to limit the debate on justice excessively and said that we cannot strangle that debate. If it is not right to strangle the debate on justice, it must not be even more so on constitutional reform. At this point I tell you so much worse, so much better, do whatever you want. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and CoR Groups]] You may have 161 votes in this House with blackmail, but in the country you are 32 percent and 78 percent will reject this bloody referendum! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and CoR Groups]] Vivadio, Mr. Renzi said that if the referendum fails the reform goes home: prepare the boxes then! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, CoR and Senator Simeoni Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I was deluded that in the third reading in the Senate of what I refuse to call reform but which I call rude and unwise to the Constitution, there would have been the possibility of not attending the usual repertoire (which we now know enough by heart) of forced entry, procedural violations and blackmail. However, obviously the Christmas holidays had led me to be better and therefore to have even more positive thoughts, but again I must note with great regret that unfortunately the way in which we want to achieve the objective of breaking our Constitution does not change. I say this, Mr President, because today's and yesterday's forced force in the Commission is frankly even more out of tune than many others. You know perfectly well: we knew for a long time that the House would vote on January 11th, we also knew before Christmas. We knew that for a long time and we knew that we would get to the final vote not before April 13th. We therefore had every opportunity to respect the timetable that we had given ourselves and to make our discussions, since this is the last time the Senate examines the reform and it is the last chance that these senators have to talk about the Constitution from these crackdowns to the citizens, who will then be called upon to confirm or not to confirm - as we obviously hope - this draft Constitutional Review Act. This is the last time that the senators will be able - as senators - to explain their yes, their no, their perplexity, and not just in this House. It is not just a debate for us President, it is an opportunity to better explain the reform and turn to the citizens themselves. The breaks that the Constitution clearly indicates in Article 138 for the constitutional revision are not designed to waste time, as our President-in-Office of the Council may think when he alludes to wasted time, but they have reasons, as you perfectly know, President, because you know the Constitution very well. These are pauses that serve to reflect, because many things happen in the meantime and other topics can be brought forward that can serve to rethink. Obviously the hypothesis of rethinking has been taken into consideration; in fact, in order to prevent anyone from rethinking it, they submit the new resolution and the last vote that the Senate will be able to express - this is the last disrespect to the democratic procedure and is an indelible stain - to a displeasing shadow, President, because the examination of constitutional reform is ahead of the renewal of the Commissions. What do we want to call this? Exchange vote? A magistrate would call him that. In fact, if there were no attempt to acquire 161 votes in exchange for seats and presidencies, we would not have changed the date of renewal of the Commissions at all. I would like to remind you that the House has already renewed the Commissions for a long time. We have discussed the renewal of the Commissions several times in the Leader Group. Within the 5 Star Movement Group in the meantime, two or three Leaders have alternated, but before the break we had set the date - and you, President, indeed, had urged us - in which the Groups should have communicated the names of the members of the Commissions; we had set and scheduled - as everyone can see - the dates. If the two issues (approval of the reform and renewal of the Commissions) were not in connection they would not have changed those dates. The examination in the Commission had been scheduled: the discussion in the Commission would have taken place quietly and then the Commissions would have been renewed. We have a lot of urgent issues, and the country needs to know. We have once again called for the calendarization of citizenship income and income of dignity, after several parts, from sources that cannot be suspected of belonging to the opposition, the priority of intervention on social hardship and against poverty has been indicated, in order to give a chance of redemption to so many men and women who are in great difficulty. Instead, what does the majority do at the meeting of the Leaders? It first introduces the discussion of the reform, and if they behave well, if you acquire 161 votes (in fact, if you take some more than maybe before there was), there will be a nice reward. In this way we avoid any difficulties and problems within the majority: they are compacted on the posts and then we will see the rest, after they have given their vote on a reform. But we know perfectly well that there has never been a free vote here, Mr President. I repeat, there has never been a free vote here! Because, even within the majority, many senators were not at all convinced in their opinions and opinions about this passage. [[Senator Cociancich's comments.]] Yes, for the many arguments we've had. There was no free vote. This time you could quietly do as we said: the Commissions were renewed, and it was in your interest to remove any shadow. In the delicate passage of such a profound constitutional change it was also the interest of the majority to avoid, to do so in the best way, in the clearest and most transparent way. It was also in your interest! This is a further stain. What did you do instead? The quota was also requested. But what amendments were there now? We all know that there is no possibility of tabling amendments or agendas. What was the problem? What did Senator Calderoli do this time? He could not do anything, he could not table hundreds of thousands of amendments, nor could any other group. So there was no need for contingency, for this last possibility of free and frank debate to be strangled in this House. In order to do this, another operation has been carried out. To strangle all time what happened? We've made all these trips, and civil unions...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u14	Start at the end of your speech, Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u15	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). The debate in the newspapers during these Christmas holidays was about the reinforced foster care, the deletion or not, whether we and the 5 Star Movement would vote in favour, if there were variable majorities, and obviously we all thought that for once the word and the vote given was true. But no, the subject will no longer be dealt with on January 26, but will be moved to 28, and be assured that it will be moved again, because maybe there will be something else at stake. Mr President, we are very serene. The President-in-Office of the Council wanted to make a plebiscite about himself; yesterday he also announced that he would withdraw definitively from politics in the event of a negative outcome, transforming the confirmed referendum. The Constitution foresees this and is done in that way because it was the instrument of minorities in the country that disagree; so it was built, but he turned it into a plebiscite. But who of plebiscites hurts, of plebiscites can perish. As far as we are concerned, we will apply ourselves in the name of the Constitution and the democratic system of this country and we will reject to the sender its plebiscite and therefore also this constitutional reform. I made my proposal very clearly. For next week, we believe that the dates for the renewal of the Commissions, as planned, must remain firm and that the draft law on citizenship income, which has been in the Commission for a very long time, has already been discussed since Tuesday. I would also like to call for a timetable for the motion on the privatisation of the railways, which is another subject that is being discussed everywhere, since we are also beginning to discuss the legislative decree and next week, Tuesday, 26 January, the debate on civil unions. There is all the time, made civil unions, to schedule then constitutional reforms. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Castaldi and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u18	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, the spectacle that this Parliament is giving is very poor. The spectacle of a democracy that is being transformed into a cleptocracy, President, is a good one, where everyone tries to make the most of anything, even from a miserable Presidency, Vice-President or Secretarial Office of a Commission. Selling out constitutional reforms, President, for a thousand euros a month more is a vile act, it is a betrayal. Mr President, this is a betrayal! We said this at the Conference of the Leaders: it is not even possible to suspect that the shift in the decision on the composition of the Bureau of the Commissions was derived from some sort of commodity on constitutional reform. It is not acceptable for our Parliament and our State, because this is an indelible stain, it is a disgrace! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is clear to everyone what is behind this barter: there are no issues of timing or amendments. We had a calendar: on the 20th we make the Commissions, then we discuss something else. Changing now, in this way, casts a shadow, President, puts the signature on the constitutional reform of this majority, a reform of the cleptocracy not of democracy. I would add another point, Mr President, to the Rules of Procedure. In Parliament, the rights of opposition, in particular the 5 Star Movement, have been trampled on for three years. We ask, Mr President, that, in view of your function, you require compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which states, as we recall, in Rule 53 (programming of proceedings), that every two months at least four sessions be devoted exclusively to the examination of draft laws and documents submitted by the parliamentary groups of oppositions. That did not happen, Mr President! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This is a violation of an act superior to an act of law: the Rules of our Senate. This is a majority that violates the laws and tramples on the fundamental laws, Mr President. It does it in these classrooms and it does it out but it is very serious here because it is the democracy and the rights of opposition that you must enforce. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u19	Senator Giarrusso, what is the calendar change you require? GIARRUSSO (M5S). We ask, as we did at the Conference of the Leaders, that priority be given to the bill on citizenship income and that the timetable for the formation and composition of the Commissions be respected.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u22	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for your willingness to convene this morning the Capigroup Conference, which has allowed, although on a day on which we do not agree, to schedule the motion of distrust to the Government on the problem of banks. We do not agree with the date of 26 January, which was proposed by a majority by the Conference of Leaders, because we recalled this morning that the possibility of calendarizing this motion to the Senate takes place in conjunction with a calendarization already taking place in the Chamber, already decided and deliberated by the Conference of Leaders of the Chamber on 19 January. It seemed to us therefore that the passage of the motion of distrust to the Senate could be scheduled on the same day already decided in the Chamber, at least in respect of the institutional grace and the relationship between the two Chambers (still for a little), but also in order to allow the Senate to address this issue, having already addressed it in the motion of individual distrust (the theme remains the same). This has not been possible and therefore the proposal for a change that I have made in the beginning of my speech is to postpone the discussion on constitutional reforms, which according to your proposal is scheduled for the 19th and 20th of next week, inserting Tuesday 19th the discussion of the motion of distrust to the Government and moving the discussion on constitutional reforms to the following week, starting on Tuesday 26th January. On the issue of the motion of no confidence, which concerns the problem of banks, I would like to remind the House of what we have already mentioned at the Conference of the Leaders, namely that it would be important for the President of the Finance Commission - I do not know if he is here now, I suppose - to immediately address the debate on the establishment of a Commission of inquiry into this matter. It is indeed important to approve the motion of no confidence to the Government on this issue, but of great importance is the establishment of a committee of inquiry. Since it seems to me that there is a common sensitivity on the part of all the groups, I hope - and I repeat here what we said at the Conference of the Leaders - that as quickly as possible the Finance Committee will begin to address the issue of setting up a Committee of Inquiry into the banking system. There is a proposal of Forza Italia and the League, there is a proposal of the 5 Star Movement and it seems to me that there is also a proposal of the majority, although not yet validated by the Offices (but I think it will be in a few moments). Turning to the third element, I will only reiterate what has been said in other speeches which have preceded me. On this occasion we are at the last reading by the Senate on constitutional reform. It's amazing to imagine that the three-month deadline for the Senate is this afternoon. This afternoon, President Finocchiaro, as anticipated in the Bureau of the 1st Commission, will make his report. Well, considering that the Senate basically repeals itself, at least with respect to the current functions and at least with respect to the trust relationship with the Government (as established by the constitutional reform), here we adopt a mechanism that provides for the reform to be addressed in the Commission in a few hours of discussion. There are no amendments or motions to be tabled, but there is only to be given to the country a representation of what the Senate is. The Senate must then have the time and opportunity for a broad debate to tell the country and the Italian citizens, who will address this issue in the next referendum, what kind of constitutional reform they intend to do. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Among the reforms planned is the substantial repeal of this House. This is the last chance the Senate has to talk about itself and force the Senate to contingent times. This proposal is unacceptable, unacceptable and will not take far. The majority has all the time, as the House is obliged to wait for April, waiting for them to decorate the three months, and then arrive at the referendum in the autumn. We would therefore have had all the time available. It is not clear why the date of 26 is unacceptable in relation to the date of 19. It's something you don't understand, you don't understand and you can't accept. So, dear President, I hope that you too, the guarantor of this institution as President pro tempore of a Senate that we know what it will become and that it will certainly not be the same, will be the guarantor of this House, of those who represent it today, of those who are watching this debate today, in order to allow the Senate to represent - I repeat, without amendments, without motions, without resolutions and without prejudices, but only with a high, single and definitive debate - what the final outcome of this House is. I think that the Senate should do so and that it can afford it, and I believe that it must absolutely and necessarily To afford it. I therefore strongly ask you - and I also ask the majority parties - to ensure that this debate is not forced in a few minutes or in a few hours in the Commission and is not dealt with in a very short time in this House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u23	We greet students, students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education.Sandro Pertini, Alatri, in the province of Frosinone, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u26	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I try to give some answers to Senator Paolo Romani, who made a good speech, as he had already done at the Conference of the Leaders, highlighting some inconsistencies which, said by Paolo Romani, took part in the initial attempt at shared reform of the end of the prefect bicameralism and, therefore, the elimination of this branch of Parliament, are doubly serious and deserving of attention. However, the attention of Senator Paolo Romani does not correspond to the attention I would have expected, after the readings and the many votes that have been expressed in this Chamber, as in that of the Chamber of Deputies, by the majority. In fact, the answer I give to Senator Romani, who wonders why we should make this umpteenth forcing, is simple: the forcing must be done because, if not under blackmail, this vote probably does not take place; or, in this vote, there are some votes that are considered less noble, of which we are ashamed and cannot be considered, from the point of view of representation, even physical, of this Assembly, useful or necessary for the final passage of the reform and instead we prefer to water down that vote, which we use when it is needed, but which formally must not be essential for the approval of such an important text. I am translating into a word, Mr President, and I would like your attention, because I address my request and my plea to you in particular. It is a profound plea, which I have already addressed to you on other occasions, when, each time, Mr President, I have asked you to ensure the impartiality of your role. Excuse me, Mr President, I see that you are talking to Senator Gotor: I realize that he always raises important issues, but perhaps what I am asking of you is the most important of all, because it concerns his role. I do not go into the substance of the political assessments; there will be time to do them and I also believe that those who think that those who were to vote on the reforms have already voted on them and will continue to vote on them; Those who were to vote against the reforms have already done so and will continue to do so. I note with great satisfaction that the Group of Forza Italia has abandoned a wrong position, which had allowed this reform to walk gigantic steps, skipping many procedures and many regulatory issues. But it is to you, Mr President, in the final analysis, that I make this request. In the final vote, allow this House to leave its thinking and reformative action to the proceedings of the most important constitutional debate in recent years, regardless of its positions, because in terms of the political positions represented in this House there is - thank God - a popular referendum, which will confirm or not the whole approach of this reform, which, as we all know, has taken place and developed by means of tearing and forcing. And I have a certainty about that, and not just because of the small numbers of this majority in the real country. This majority, in fact, for a number of reasons not least related to the procedure through which we vote before, for example, the renewal of the Commissions, those numbers in the country does not have them; the Democratic Party does not have them, it does not have them NCD, none of those who today move in the arranged combination of a series of considerations, all important, that change, will change and try to change even the economic and political structure of the country. Minister Delrio knows what I am talking about, because yesterday in this House he had to respond to specific accusations that were made by Senator Malan about the procedures for renewing the country's motorway concessions, which represent one of the most important structures and the most profitable businesses. This is a piece of that total blackmail because of which we are to anticipate the vote on constitutional reforms before the renewal of the Commissions which, not by chance, the House of Deputies, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, provided for last September. We are only taking action today, with great delay, to allow first the final vote on constitutional reforms and then the renewal of the Commissions and perhaps, to follow, the reshuffle of government. However, Mr President, this does not concern my request. I am here to ask you to be the guarantor, Mr President of the Senate, of the regularity of a procedure, because in terms of merit we can all take responsibility for solving problems, speeding up times and keeping up with the demands of Italian society. And then, if we want to keep up with the demands of Italian society, there are some emergencies that come before constitutional reforms. As President Paolo Romani and other group leaders have reminded us, the issue of protecting Italians' savings - I assure you, Mr President - is more important than whether the Senate continues to be a parliamentary assembly or not. That the savings of Italians are safe in our banking system (and not only) is more important than anticipating and choking the vote on such an important reform, making it subordinate to what? The renewal of the presidencies of the parliamentary committees. Think about how much you have downgraded this reform: you have done so to the point that you are forced to vote on it before you appoint President of the Commission dude or guy. So little is worth this constitutional reform, President Grasso? Mr President, my appeal and criticism are addressed to you as the guarantor of last resort. The demands that the opposition has made to you so far have not been to guarantee your right, because that, as you can see, we can guarantee it anyway, but to guarantee the regularity of a procedure and respect for a country that cannot see approved first a constitutional reform because you have to appoint the Presidents of the Commission or because Guy must be appointed Undersecretary and Caio Minister. That's another game. And, if you will allow me, I would like to stress once again that, on the subject, it does not matter what positions are taken in this House on constitutional reforms, because of that we will respond to the country, each for its own part of competence and bringing the value of its own position, in favour of reforms, but for good reforms. Today we have only the obligation to respect the role of this House, if only for the last time in its role. Do not blackmail this House. Let this House do its work quickly and seriously. If you allow the renewal of the Commissions to be blackmailed, I am sorry to say, Mr President, you are guilty of a great deal of guilt and you are taking on a great responsibility, which is that of allowing a majority to use the political exchange within this House, in order to obtain votes which, perhaps, would not have otherwise. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u27	Senator Bonfrisco, I didn't understand the request to change the calendar you made. That's why you had the floor. As you can see from your speech, I think you are referring to setting up a commission of inquiry into banks or something like that. Is that it?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u28	Exactly. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u29	Good. However, I would like to remind you that the House is sovereign, then.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u30	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u33	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I make a request pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of our Rules of Procedure that motions signed by more than 20% of the senators should be scheduled within 30 days of their submission. In particular, I refer to act 1-00405, which is the motion that commits the Government not to equip the F35 aircraft with nuclear weapons, presented at session No. 439 of 29 April 2015. Having already 81 signatures, it should have been discussed within a month. Now, as Rule 157 - follow me, President, because it is important - provides for you to use Rule 55 (6) as President, which provides for you to place on the agenda motions signed by more than 20% of the senators' signatures, even without a decision by the Conference of Leaders and even without a decision by the Assembly, because it is part of the rules to protect minorities. Therefore, the 81 signatures of this motion are sufficient for you to put it on the agenda. I do not ask for the vote in this House, because there is no need for it. I would ask you to put the motion on the F-35 nuclear supply next week when you want to put it on the agenda. If you do not wish to do so, I ask you why you do not respect the Rules of Procedure, and I hope that you will give me a satisfactory explanation, otherwise we could start to think that you are a supporter of the nuclear supply of our aircraft, which, in my opinion, would not do you any credit. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u35	I would like to ask everyone to indicate first of all the requests for changes to the timetable. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u36	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, following your advice, the request for amendment by the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group, which provides for the renewal of the Commissions, to follow the motion of distrust to the Renzi Government, then the constitutional reform, the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into Bank Etruria fraud and civil unions. You see, Mr President, as Senator Calderoli wisely pointed out just now, I believe that the senators' request to speak at the moment is also based on the fact that next week probably there will be little time to talk about constitutional reform. In this sense, Mr President, this time I am not making an accusation or a rebuke to you, because I believe I have intuitioned your thoughts on the progress of the events. I believe, however, that you can give a serious signal representing your high institution with a choice: not to indicate a closing date, that is not to quote the debate. The drawing is now drawn. It should be said that the President-in-Office of the Council sets the terms of the debate probably by reading the papers or consulting the Cabal, because otherwise we would not understand the choice to impose next week when, as has been rightly argued, there is not - even at this time - the mature term to be able to discuss it. I therefore believe, Mr President, that you can give, if possible, a final sign of representation of the Senate Presidency and of the dignity of the Senate: a quota cannot be accepted also on the final vote, even on the final reading of the constitutional reform plan in this Senate. It cannot be done out of respect for the citizens, out of respect for the history of the Senate and not to create yet another precedent that in the years to come would certainly be traced back to its choice, and would certainly affect a democratic debate that must take place until the end. You see, President, it was first argued that there was no free vote in here. No, there was a free vote, certainly from those who voted against that constitutional bill. On the other hand, one can argue about the freedom of vote of those who voted in favour of that constitutional bill. The blackmail underlying the change of the calendar with the Commissions weighs on the conscience of more than one in here, more than one who, perhaps, even transhumance passing from opposition to majority. And yet again I appeal to my colleagues in the New Right Centro: how long are you going to lend yourself to these games? Move the end of the Commissions, slide the vote on civil unions by a few days to secure 161 votes for the President of the Council of Ministers and then end up taking her still in that place? But how long are you going to lend yourself to these really low political games? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Until when? President, paraphrasing Thomas Moro, it is a bad deal to sell your soul for the whole world, to sell it for the Presidency of the Republic would be an equally bad deal, but to sell it to be the President of the Commission, Senator Finocchiaro, what business is it? What is dignity? Let us defend the prerogatives of the Senate and of the senators who want to hold a free debate in the Commission and in this House! Why should we lend ourselves to these games? I tell you, President of the Senate: why? The vote will necessarily end, they spend the three months, they will spend the three months also for the House and they will go to referendum and - alive God - that will be the ordain for the President of the Council of Ministers! Man really likes to gamble and let's go read the cards, let's go see, because that will really be a referendum between those who want democracy and the freedom of the country and those who, instead, want to follow his charades. But in the meantime, at least respect the dignity of this Senate's political debate. President, I would once again appeal to you: do not allow the quota of the time of the individual senators in the final debate of the Senate. This is the last proof you can give to show that you are up to the role for which I myself respect you, although I did not vote for you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u39	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id)). President. - I have just a few words to explain my proposal. Knowing the sensitivity of the Group of the Democratic Party to the issues of transparency and its staff, I make a proposal that is then the simplest: to anticipate to tomorrow the vote of the Commissions. It seems to me the most reasonable thing, the one that clears out and gives way, in the next week, for further time so that interventions in the constitutional debate are not quotad. The proposal that I am putting forward seems simple and concrete: we are voting on the Commissions tomorrow and next week we are catching up on time, perhaps even adding Monday, to hold a debate on the constitutional vote that takes into account the interests, passion and participation not only of us senators, but also of all citizens so that there is a debate appropriate to the vote on the Constitution. This would also remove other shadows, given that the newspapers have been talking for days about an alacre Dr. Aquilanti, seen in the offices of the cassation to plead the cause of a harmonization of the referendum vote with the vote of the administrative authorities. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI) and Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u42	GIROTTO (M5S). I urgently call for the timetable for motion 1-00421, which concerns the stabilisation of ecobonus. The motion was tabled by me, but it was signed as a leopard by the entire parliamentary arc, by senators of both the majority party, the Mixed-SEL Group, the Mixed Group and so on. A similar motion was also tabled by the main party to the Government. I am therefore not going to repeat, for the umpteenth time, that this is a measure that would lead to the creation of hundreds of thousands of jobs because by stabilising this tax deduction, we will give companies a medium-term perspective in which to invest and plan, which they cannot do now and have not been able to do in recent years. You know very well that over the last six years we have lost almost half a million jobs in the construction sector and that this is therefore a top priority. You also know very well that this measure would make us more energy-efficient and would make us more environmentally compatible, where we have been coming from a month when the media have only reported news about the smog emergency and to get out of this situation of environmental stagnation we have to rely on the rain dance, even if we were America's redskins. We know very well that buildings consume 40% of the total energy we use in Italy, so we could have exceptional room for improvement and create hundreds of thousands of jobs: we do not say that of the 5 Star Movement, but the Confindustria, the trade unions, the banks, the associations of entrepreneurs and the study centres, which are all in favour of this measure. There is therefore no reason not to approve it, except for a short-sighted policy, which, at this point, would be attributed to you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u45	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make two requests. The first is that draft law No 1148, which provides for the establishment of citizenship income, is scheduled. I would remind you and this House that the debate on this draft law began a year ago and that you, Mr President, have repeatedly requested, according to our instructions, the Labour and Social Security Committee to conclude the debate in the Commission and to move on to the debate in this House. I understand that for the majority and for the government talking about poverty and helping the 2,759,000 families that are currently in difficulty in Italy is not a priority and that government priorities are merely electoral, so much so that, when you want, even in a month, you approve a measure like the so-called 80 euro bonus. Bonus that nothing or little has affected the poor Italian families, and this is not only said by the 5 Star Movement, but also by the various studies carried out by ISTAT, the Bank of Italy and other institutional entities. I understand that it is easier to approve acts, such as yesterday's in Parliament's Committee on Children and Adolescence, in which it is said to have to approve a plan against child poverty, but with reference to resources allocated to the law of stability, which certainly cannot meet all the needs of poor children and poor Italian families. However, I would ask this House and the President to finally take an act of responsibility and make it a real priority for this Parliament to combat poverty in Italy. I would remind you that this is a measure which is not envisaged in Italy and Greece alone. The second thing I ask is for the Minister of the Interior to come and report to the House on the events involving the Municipality of Catania and, in particular, on two issues. The first issue, is the interceptions for which tomorrow mayor Enzo Bianco will report at the hearing in the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission. These are intercepts that have involved the current mayor Enzo Bianco on the case of the implementation plan (PUA) and on the project Polar Star, a company that, according to the latest procedural acts, would seem founded by subjects contiguous to the mobs of the city of Catania. Furthermore, I would like to say - and I hope the Anti-Mafia Commission is listening - that the environmental planning plan (PUA), as defined and approved by the City Council, had been rejected by the Regional Council for Town Planning of the Region of Sicily in Opinion No 199. Mr President, this proposal was subsequently rejected by the municipal council, which approved the PUA as requested by the said company Stella polare. I would also like this House to hear the Minister of the Interior on another subject, which always concerns the City Council of Catania. I am referring to the report that the Anti-Mafia Commission of the Sicilian Region has just completed and I know that it has sent to the prosecutor - at least from the press that is known - and to the National Anti-Mafia Commission. It would seem that some council members of the City of Catania, who are currently in the council, are involved in mafia matters and therefore there are mafia infiltrations. This is a serious act. I would therefore ask the anti-Mafia Commission to clarify this and ask this House to vote for the hearing of the Minister of the Interior as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Numerous senators are calling for intervention.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u46	Given the number of requests, one minute will be allowed to present requests for changes to the timetable from now on.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u49	[[Senator Malan's comments.]] Senator Endrizzi got the floor, then. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I am intervening on the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution: I believe that by giving a different time to people who have spoken on the same subject at the same sitting does not respect Article 3 of the Constitution; I also believe that this is not compatible with the arguments we have heard, because we must clear out every shadow of doubt about the'silence' of this House, which should actually be a branch of Parliament. Having said that, Mr President, I will allow myself - and I do not want to consider it rude - not to take this into account; I will count on time, but I would ask you not to apply what you have just said.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u50	You know very well that there is a well-established practice in this respect and therefore, because the word is given to propose a change in the timetable, with all the tolerances necessary to illustrate the individual proposals, we naturally consider this practice.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u51	You have just had proof that I have given up ten minutes to speak on the Rules of Procedure, but I will speak on the priority of this House, which is to regain credibility and transparency in the eyes of the nation. We have seen here the infiltration of the executive power into the seat of legislative power: the government has occupied these classrooms, occupied the timetable, dictated the legislative line and did so not only with continuous votes of trust and decree-laws, abusing them, but taking possession of the times, ways and contents on which to reform the Constitution. In addition to this, we have seen shameful political blackmail, subjecting the action of government and the continuation of the legislature to the fulfilment of what I also refuse to consider a reform of the Charter of guarantee of all Italians. It is shameful for a President-in-Office of the Council to come here as a reuccio to say: either so or all at home, unfortunately being able to count on the human weakness of those who have not yet reached retirement time. We saw here intimidation, we saw colleagues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs first intimidated and then removed because on what is the supreme law, the Constitutional Charter, they expressed a free opinion. We have seen barracks, some obscene in the background of the Nazarene, others obvious and bold, where the vote on constitutional reform was traded with the electoral law, thereby affirming the principle that the law, which should in itself be solid, granitic, will instead become otherwise applied in relation to an electoral law that can be changed with the will of the majorities. We then saw dark bartering, reported in here, even ventilating buying and trading votes with advice to family members. The 5 Star Movement on this - the only voice - has demonstrated its diversity by making an immediate and clear gesture, i.e. presenting an exposure to the prosecutor to assess any criminal offences. Several times, you will remember, in recent months we have asked you for the renewal of the Commissions in order to subtract your figure and role from the horrifying doubt that you are succubus, willing or unwilling, of a blackmail in order to increase the political budget of sale and barter of the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please make requests for changes to the timetable. ENDRIZZI (M5S). The request, Mr President, is that you finally accept the heartfelt appeal that we have repeatedly made to you to renew the Commissions before any other act and to remove your figure in this House from the doubt: a gesture of responsibility and transparency that puts the guarantee of the institutions before personal interests, in which we say we are different. Therefore, our request to modify the Calendar is to suspend all activities before the Commissions are renewed. In the alternative, because someone insists that the Rules of Procedure do not say when the renewal of the Commissions should take place after the two-year period, I would ask you to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to tell us how far the renewal can be from the first two-year term of office. With this you would clear another doubt about your person, because, since there is no majority of the Democratic Party in the junta for the Rules of Procedure, it has been months and months that the junta for the Rules of Procedure has not been convened. We need to make it clear, and only you can do it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u54	I actually asked to speak on a point of order. It's an intervention that would come first.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u55	Since Senator Endrizzi did the same call and I answered, I thought it was over. When you have the floor, which you have asked, you will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u56	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I'd rather talk right away. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We have about 20 requests for intervention, so realize what we have to do. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). We cannot violate the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely not, but we must maintain the order of business and ensure that everyone can speak. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). For the time provided for in the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We must speak in relation to the reasons why we are asking for the floor. Please, Senator Donno.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u57	Mr President, first of all, I would like to make a small point because I appeal to your function and, above all, to what you have been: a man of justice. At this point, I ask you to take into account my request for the modification of the calendar with regard to an act that the 5 Star Movement presented, at my first signature: motion 1-00503, published on 22 December in session No 556 (the help also giving her these references). I intend to ask you to take charge, on behalf of the Italian citizens, of the people of Salento, of the olive trees or in any case for the protection of the territory, of the calendarization of a motion that concerns Minister Martina, his serious failures and above all his responsibilities in the management of the alleged xylella emergency, which caused a massacre of the olive trees. By the majority forces, especially the Democratic Party, we have even been called conspiracyists, and instead our demands of two years ago have also been corroborated by the investigations conducted by the Lecce Public Prosecutor, who has proved us right. And the developments that have occurred have given us even more reason, because it has been established that the cause of the drying of the olive trees does not consist in the xylella, but there are several. PRESIDENT. - The debate is That is the merit of the motion and we will be able to deal with it if it is scheduled. WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I really ask you, on behalf of all those citizens who have suffered the death of olive trees on the Salento and Brindisi territories, who have also been supported by the appeals procedures that have strengthened the TAR of Lazio. I would like to make it clear that tomorrow the Lecce Prosecutor will listen to Mr Martina, who is in charge of these shameful situations. We ask you for true justice and to take charge of the calendarization of this motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u60	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, we ask that, in conjunction with the timetable for the motions of no confidence in the Government on the subject of banks, motion 1-00505 be inserted and scheduled, with which we ask the Government to initiate the procedure for the revocation of the Governor of the Bank of Italy. We believe that all this is extremely serious and that we must respond to savers, who are currently in great difficulty, for reasons of transparency and fairness, in particular on the role played by the Bank of Italy. It is necessary for the Government to verify the activity carried out, whether or not it was aware of the Bank of Italy and that it was completely responsible for supervision. Given the subject of the other motions already scheduled, we ask that the motion be included at the same time.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u63	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the outcome of the Conference of Leaders strengthens me in my many times sustained conviction that far-reaching constitutional reform cannot be dealt with by a Parliament, which is also engaged on the ordinary front of the Government, the formation of laws and today, given the period, on the reorganization of the presidencies of the Commissions. There are too many compromises that the ordinary life of Parliament and the country offer to the Government in order to condition the vote on constitutional reforms, which are much higher and nobler than ordinary. So I will not ask you, because I have unfortunately already done so without success, to respect the Rules of Procedure with regard to the draft laws for which the House voted on the urgency procedure more than two years ago and which should be automatically scheduled, Mr President, without a group requesting it because it is a regulatory provision. I will not ask you for this change in the timetable, but another time I will ask you to avoid any conditioning and markets behind the vote on constitutional reforms. The dates decided to discuss civil unions and reforms are reversed. We vote first on civil unions, instead of reforms and reforms instead of civil unions. In this way, by postponing the vote on reforms, we prevent the President-in-Office of the Council from making a compromise for three or four Presidency posts, and he is obliged to make an act of sale for one place only - because that is it - and so applies to the Vice-Presidents. This, in fact, is the panorama of the market in which this Government has accustomed us to live: they promise places to get votes. In my view, instead, there should be places and only one can be given. With regard to civil unions, the positions of some members of the majority would be clarified before the vote on reforms, because in this case too a market, already open within the Democratic Party itself, on the exchange between changes to civil unions and the vote on reforms is opened. All this must lead us, therefore, to the decision to separate as much as possible the vote on the reforms with respect to the contingency both of the internal life of the Senate, with the renewal of the Commissions, and of the decision on important bills such as that relating to civil unions. So I repeat to you my proposal to include civil unions on the date already foreseen for reforms and to postpone the reforms to the date already foreseen for civil unions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u66	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, in view of the fact that the PD, which is the first government force, has always declared itself to be a guarantor of the rights of the weakest, I would ask that the renewal of the Commissions take place immediately, in order to eliminate any doubt, and also that the debate of the Senate Act No 1148 on citizenship income be included on the agenda for next Tuesday, in the second place of the Senate Act No 1950, namely the class action, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies unanimously, and in the third place of the Senate Act No 624 aimed at setting up a Committee of Inquiry into the financial failure of the Monte dei Paschi credit institution in Siena, which could be extended to the banking system. I call for the support of the entire majority to give a firm and clear demonstration that the Democratic Party protects rights and not criminals. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u69	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we too wanted to include a topic in the timetable that has been communicated to us. In fact, we would have preferred to keep the timetable approved before the Christmas holidays always in that last-minute emergency group leader, also because the debate on civil unions is particularly close to our heart and finally Parliament could have taken it seriously. Obviously, however, the negotiations are still under way and the Government obviously needs to postpone the discussion always with a view to making the text worse. However, we will never get used to reading, every time, the calendar of plenary work in the newspapers, and this, in respect of the function of this Senate and its President, we really consider it a hugely serious fact. We had all read that the vote on the reforms had been scheduled on 19 January and for the umpteenth time we see that the President of the Council has now also become President of the Senate as he decides and calendarizes our work in the Assembly and announces it through the newspapers. We would like to add, with regard to the changes we have already foreseen, the inclusion, on Wednesday 20th, of the draft law on the Committee of Inquiry into the events of Banca Etruria, immediately prior to the discussion of the motion of no confidence in the Government, because it would be paradoxical to discuss it without talking about the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u72	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, this Senate has therefore decided to speed up the process of a certain measure for the country. But what is the provision? It is a measure that ensures that there will be a Senate, but that the vote will be taken away from the citizens. On the other hand, we propose that the discussion of draft law No 1477, at my first signature, be inserted immediately into the calendar, aimed at establishing a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the failure of the company Deiulemar - Compagnia di Navigazione S.p.A. I therefore also ask other Members to support this request, because this failure has led to misery of more than 13,000 families. And I ask this House to speed up the establishment of this Commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u75	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, my proposal is to schedule the debate in this House on the measure to set up a Committee of Inquiry into Banks, including the formula 'where it is concluded in the Commission'. We discovered today at the Conference of the Leaders that the Democratic Party's proposal existed on television, but not in the Senate. When yesterday the President of the Finance Committee said that we could not proceed to the debate on the Committee of Inquiry, which everyone on television said was urgent, it turned out that, while the proposal of Forza Italia, filed by President Romani, and perhaps even those of other Groups, that of Senator Marcucci still did not exist, because there was no signature of the draft text, as well as of pragmatism is delivered by the Offices to those who submit a bill. Then I propose that we schedule that proposal, because it is urgent. Instead, I say to President Zanda - trying not to abuse the times - that the timing of constitutional reforms, for this decisive step, on the dates of 19 and 20 January does not make any sense. As President Romani has already said, the House will not be able to vote before 13 April, so voting a week later in the Senate does not change anything. What does it actually change? NCD colleagues, I'm addressing you. The Government and the PD want to vote on the reforms before the discussion of the bill on civil unions, in order to avoid that very delicate discussion can determine the repercussions, as well as affecting the issue of the Commissions and the reshuffle of Government. So the calendar, President Grasso, today is a highly political fact. It's not a matter of time, of discussing a topic before or after. Instead, it is a matter of having a quick discussion of the last step on constitutional reforms - I refer to what my colleague Paolo Romani said, because I do not have time to go any further - making an introduction, dear President Zanda, in order to prevent a majority party, which today has a strong and political dissent on a sensitive issue, if ever, discussing civil unions first, from making this dissent ripe. It is a shame: all this is done only for this need. I hope that my colleagues in the NCD will be aware of all this and I hope that our timetable proposals will be adopted. I am done, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I insist that the business of banks should also be included in the calendar. Dear Senator Marcucci, go sign the bill and drafts. You can't say something on television and then you can't run the proposal in the Senate. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u78	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have asked to speak on a point of order, which, in Rule 89 (2), stipulates that the speaking time is ten minutes. I would like to know what is the need for a timetable for reducing intervention to less than ten minutes, given that the timetable is in the process of being defined.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u79	The word is given for changes to the calendar. There is another Rule in the Rules of Procedure which states that interventions must be consistent with what is required. We must balance and balance and both you and I will certainly work together for this purpose.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u80	That's for sure. However, there are concepts which, strictly in keeping with the Rules of Procedure, require much more than a minute to be expressed, otherwise there would be no regulation and we should always provide for a minute, for everyone, even for the rapporteurs, so no one looks at what we read.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u81	After speaking to the Parent Company and calling for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, everyone makes their own request for a change, it is clear that we must give an order to the proceedings. But you know this very well, it is not the first time that it has happened.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u82	I don't know what it is, though. The order of business is yours to decide. No one has decided that the timetable should be voted on by 12.30 or 13 noon; you decide it, on your very own initiative. I believe that, when it was decided to have a Constitution for a democratic country, this was not to give the arbitrariness to a person, but to give a voice to the Parliament that represents the citizens. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u83	He's got the voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u84	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I come to the proposal. I propose to replace the debate on constitutional reform and Senate Act No. 361 on sports organisations (removing them from the calendar and reinserting them, the first, when it is finished in the Commission and, the second, when it can then be decided by a further Conference of the Leaders) with the discussion of Senator Amidei's motion No. 487, signed by 24 senators and six leaders, that is, all the opposition leaders, who ask the Government to equip itself to respond satisfactorily - at least vaguely satisfactoryly - to the questions that today, to a large extent, remain unanswered, an answer that when it arrives is still very late. This is far from secondary, precisely at a time when the government's powers are being overstated: the government dominates the timetable; at least it responds to questions; at least, as I said yesterday, before taking very heavy measures precisely on the subjects that are being asked. Let me say a word, Mr President, (I am not going to use the ten minutes) about what is now going on, which is a very serious matter, namely that the final vote should be taken on the reform of the Constitution as far as the Senate is concerned, even without the very little work being done in the Commission. The Constitution and the Rules of Procedure offer exceptional guarantees to the speed of voting on this occasion, i.e. in the case of the second reading in conformity by the Senate. It is not really conceivable that these prerogatives should be further restricted: amendments, agendas, preliminary rulings cannot be tabled; in other words, the general debate and explanations of vote are provided for. Thinking that we are going to have time or even time to get to the Chamber without voting in the Commission is a premeditated violation of Rule 72 of the Constitution, which provides that every measure is examined in the Chamber and in the Commission. This has not been the case in the previous reading, because neither a vote has been taken in the Commission, and it has not taken place on another measure, which has been put very strongly on the calendar; let us not make it a system. It would still be unthinkable, but if this article had been deleted in the constitutional reform, there would at least be consistency, not in respect, but in violation of the Rules of Procedure, at least there would be consistency of intentions. On the other hand, the new Constitution should also discuss a measure first in the Constitution and then in the Chamber. Since it is written in the old Constitution and in the - hopefully never - new Constitution, at least in this case let us respect it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u87	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I will not abuse the time I have available, but - please - do not interrupt me. I believe that a change of timetable is required in the light of the statements made by Mr Delrio in this House just yesterday. I read a textual line (we were talking about extending the motorway concessions): There is no gift. We're not extending any concessions. I don't know what you're referring to. I know that this is a lie, I don't know how best to define it. Because, for example, the dealers of the Padova-Brescia motorway, who are mostly private, have already incardinated a negotiation for the sale of the extension of the concession, going to pocket 1,200 million euros, which is public money that for no reason in the world have to go into the pockets of the private ones. Therefore, in the light of all this and given the fact that Mr Delrio is not answering questions, I would ask that a question time be included in the timetable with the participation of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u90	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, I rise to make two points, the first of which concerns the decision to reduce the time limits for the examination of constitutional reform. The second reading examination of the draft Constitutional Law deserves all the time necessary for the seriousness of the subject dealt with. I think we should all agree that this is not just a formal step. Therefore, an extension of the debate and a deepening of the subject, also from the point of view of what would happen if the reform were adopted and entered into force, are necessary. We are talking about a reform which, if adopted, would change the meaning of the work of the Members of Parliament and the citizens' vote for the renewal of Parliament, as well as the relations between Parliament and the Government, which would return to a pre-liberal situation, with a net imbalance of powers. For this reason, I believe it is frankly inappropriate, wrong and harmful to press the time for the debate on reforms, making the examination of the measure at second reading a moment of effective reflection and not a mere formal passage. To this end, I propose to replace the discussion of the reforms on the agenda with another issue that is - yes - urgent (the intervention of Senator Cappelletti has just signalled). The Commission has for months been holding a measure on the regulation of representatives of interests (what journalists call lobbying). This issue is important, as has also been seen in a number of events in banks, public works and drilling. Surely there are relations between private and public administration, between private and government, as well as between private and parliamentarians. These reports must be regulated in order to make them absolutely transparent in order to put citizens in a position to assess the work of Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament in a position to know that their activities and choices will also be evaluated in relation to the relations they have had with representatives of interest. This, Mr President, is the proposal to change the timetable for the work that I have left. [[Applause from the Misto-AEcT Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u93	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, allow me a small premise. You will certainly remember that already twice in recent months I asked your person for certain times for the renewal of the offices of presidency of the Senate Commissions. The first time I asked him in the short term from the vote on constitutional reforms in the House of Deputies, where the Commissions have been renewed for many months now. Having said that, what I come to ask the House and you, Mr President, is that the timetable adopted by a majority at the Conference of Leaders be changed by anticipating next week's sitting of Tuesday, the discussion of the renewal of the Bureaus of Parliamentary Committees, as already requested by several Members, in order to avoid any doubt as to the legitimacy of the operations made before the examination of the constitutional reforms in this House. I also propose that, again at next Tuesday's sitting, we schedule the questioning by abbreviated procedure 2-00331, concerning the situation of STMicroelectronics, a company that deals with the micro-electronic components sector, which is very important for our national economy. All this, Mr President, in order to bring this House back to dealing with issues affecting the country, businesses and citizens, rather than a reform which I very much hope will be rejected, if anything, by the popular referendum that is confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u96	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, without wishing to waste the time of this House, since the Government is asking for this step, I shall begin by asking for the timetable for motion 1-00386 on the second tube of the Fréjus tunnel, and I am sure that all my Piedmontese colleagues will sign this request. Secondly, I would ask that we bring to the Chamber the Senate Act No 1307 concerning the identification of members of the Forces of Order, which has been in the Commission for many months now, pending the adoption of a fortnight's amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u99	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the oath of fidelity to the Constitution, which we have all made, involves respect not only for the rules of the Constitution, but also for the values and principles that those rules have determined. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The magistrates do, they swear, but as parliamentarians you do not swear; it is a small clarification. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Those of us who have made the oath but also those who have not made it, because the parliamentary function is a collective oath of respect for the Constitution. Now, the Constitution is overwhelmed in those values - just read what President Zagrebelsky said today - because those values, which are the foundation of the Constitution, are betrayed by the Constitution as reformed. This betrayal means that each one of us, not just the Senate and the Groups, takes a special responsibility to the citizens, to the voters. For this reason, Mr President, it is not acceptable to reduce the debate on constitutional reforms to one and a half days. My proposal, Mr President, is that three whole days be devoted to the debate, from morning to evening. Then, in relation to what will be the registrations, then it will be possible to assess the timing and remodulating them, but reducing the debate to one and a half days means, President, saying that not every senator will be able to intervene, but those that the Leaders want to make intervene. You must not allow such a thing in the face of the problem of reforming the Constitution. Each of us is responsible, regardless of the Group to which he belongs. For this reason, Mr President, I believe that we must leave the debate that space necessary to ensure that the citizens understand. You have read the answers to the polls: the majority of citizens have not yet understood the reasons for this reform, and when they understand it perhaps it will be too late, if we fail to highlight the serious shortcomings and the serious betrayals of a fundamental principle: the Republic is founded on the people, on the will of the voters, on the citizens. With this reform the citizen is forgotten and only the government will be the real lintel of this new state. For this reason, Mr President, I believe that three days are the minimum necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u100	I address the greeting of the Assembly to students, students and teachers of the State Science-Linguistic Lyceum "Agostino Maria De Carlo" in Giugliano, Campania, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u103	MARTELLI (M5S). I let you make constitutional reforms and also the ILVA decree, all the more so, one less, we are at 10.5% and it can be there. Mr Stefano Esposito, however, threw the bomb on television, with me present, that the proposal to set up the Single Chamber Committee of Inquiry into the banking system had been presented. I understand today that it is a lie, in the sense that it has not been deposited because I would have so much wanted to ask for its calendarization. There is, however, the one on the Mount of the Paschi di Siena, which has been lying since April 2013. He's in the Commission. You've made some bizarre attempts to turn it into a monocamera and a list of auditions. Since your own mayor of the PD of Siena has stated that the bank, after burning 10 billion of capital, can no longer support capital increases - and 10 billion is a financial one - it will be appropriate to bring up the discussion of the measure on the establishment of this Commission of inquiry in the Chamber after constitutional reforms and after the ILVA decree. It is not possible that after throwing away 10 billion, after the Monte dei Paschi Foundation reduced to 1.42% of the control of the bank, when it was the majority shareholder, nothing has yet been done. I urge you to deposit and bring to the House the proposal to set up the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system because the last case of Boschi bank or Etruria bank teaches that these things must no longer be abandoned. There are 130,000 families cheated by you and waiting for an answer. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Make the request, please. MARTELLI (M5S). I did it before: after constitutional reforms and after the "Save ILVA 10.5," we set up the Committee of Inquiry into the Mount of the Paschi of Siena and, where already deposited, the establishment of the Single Chamber Committee of Inquiry into the banking system.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u106	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, one of the reasons why constitutional reform is brought to the House with such urgency is the alleged inefficiency of the Senate in dealing with laws. You are the person who should ensure the efficiency of this Senate. President, the work in the Defence Commission on the Framework Law on International Missions ended on 22 July 2015 when the measure was voted, which is ready. What do we do? Are we waiting to clog the House with a new decree-law that will have to expire or take into account the work already done? I think it's up to you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's already scheduled for next week, and you know that. MARTON (M5S). I know that very well, but let us continue to add measures before and do not offend the intelligence of this House: it is clear that it will skip to later. Without mocking ourselves, we first deal with the works already finished and, therefore, immediately, already today, the framework law. We end that provision in one day. There will not come in the future another decree-law that will cover a quarter already past and we look like those who work seriously. I think it's a matter of decency. I do not know whether we are ashamed of what is being done here and whether we accept subtly what is imposed by the Prime Minister or whether we have the dignity at least to defend our work. I believe that it is for everyone's benefit to demonstrate that they are serious people and to end what is necessary for citizens in this House. We include the mission measure in today's calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u109	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would ask you to put before 19 January the discussion of a unified text of three bills on space and aerospace policies, whose proceedings in the Industry Commission began in June 2014. We have been waiting for four months for the opinion of the Budget Committee to be brought to this House. We know how of national interest space policies are given the recent successes of our aerospace companies and, above all, how important this is for the economy of our country; therefore, it is not justifiable to wait for an opinion from the Budget Commission for more than four months: all this could happen in a very short time, bringing the measure to the Assembly by 19.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u111	You have the right to do so. You have one minute, Senator Scilipoti.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u112	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I understand that we are making proposals to amend the timetable, but all of this starts with a reflection on the fact that some of our colleagues in the majority, who belong to the centre-left and left-wing areas, want to strangle the debate on the final stage of the examination of constitutional reform, that is, the debate which may be a debate within this House, but which would not compromise or change anything. Therefore, in my opinion it would have been more appropriate for the majority to be more open to debate, because it does not only enrich those who... [[The light placed on the microphone of Senator Scilipoti continues to flash]] Mr President, I see my microphone flashing and so I have to conclude, but if you don't give me a chance to make a proposal...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u113	If you propose, but if you just make one premise...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u114	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to point out that I do not agree with the proposal made by my Parent Company and therefore, if I disagree with your proposal, I would have to take a few more minutes. That is what you said a few minutes ago in this House when you spoke immediately after Mr Malan. Since I am in disagreement with my Parent Company, it is my duty from the regulatory point of view to regulate a few more minutes, as you said a moment ago. So allow me to reflect... president. To say this, you've already lost two minutes. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Since I've got eight, I've got six left. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I told you you have a minute, Senator Scilypoti. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Since colleagues in the left-wing area have taken this position, I regret that colleagues who, until a few days ago, shouted loudly that the rules of democracy must be respected, today they are listening as merchants and do not hear. To conclude, I would like to turn to the wisdom of these men and particularly to that of the PD Leader, Senator Zanda, asking him whether it is not convenient to intervene on constitutional reforms, perhaps without the smile that shows, at this moment, the colleague sitting next to the leader Zanda. In fact, I do not believe that my reflection is so quirky; it merely aims to say that perhaps it would be appropriate to give a few more minutes to those who have something to say in this House about constitutional reforms. Nothing will change anyway, but surely it would be a gesture that all of us could appreciate. My proposal is therefore to put before the discussion of the bill on the restoration of monetary sovereignty in Italy. In the event that the proposal is not received by the Assembly, we could put before the discussion of the bill on the division between commercial banks and business banks, to resolve the situation of great drama that the country is going through. Thank you, Mr President, and I would like to thank you, immediately after you, Mr Zanda, if you would like to hear the voice of this very small senator who asks for a few more minutes to discuss constitutional reforms. [[Applause from SenatorsMalan and Rizzotti.Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u117	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for a draft law by the Democratic Party, first signed by Senator Filippi, to be drawn up with a view to setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into public procurement and the phenomena of corruption and collusion related to them. Given that we are talking about this very issue at this time and that we are coming to the conclusion of the rewriting of the procurement code, I would ask that the draft law, which has already been unanimously adopted in the Commission, should finally be brought to the attention of this House. I ask that this be done next week or this week, before we talk about constitutional reforms, on which, as we have said, we have plenty of time to reason and reflect. If, however, the purpose of our commander and leader is not to make us speak - of course, I am not referring to you, Mr President, but to the President-in-Office of the Council - we will not carry out your will and, indeed, we will oppose the will of that great man who believes he is.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u120	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to endorse what Mrs Catalfo has said, because the problems in Catania are really complex and should be discussed in this House. Secondly, I am a spokesman for the Anti-Mafia Commission and for President Bindi, who called on us yesterday in the Bureau to discuss the report prepared by the Committee chaired by Claudio Fava on the issues of information and journalism. This interesting report was adopted unanimously and was concluded as early as September last year, so to schedule it in this House seems to me to be a due act. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u123	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to highlight the sense of inopportunity for the postponement of the renewal of the presidencies of the Commissions, which creates a shadow of possible blackmail, because it will put into crisis the subsequent renewals. Apart from this great political inopportunity, however, I call for the inclusion in the timetable not only of the proposals already made for the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry on the Mount of the Paschi of Siena, but also of the draft law which I presented in July 2013 concerning the investigation of the Banco di Desio. I also ask that an urgent question time be inserted with Minister Giannini, because thanks to the Giannini law at this moment the school is in chaos and needs certainties and answers for a series of procedures that cannot be understood by what criteria nor by how they can be carried out. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u126	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would have liked to have listened to the reasons why it is considered appropriate to put the vote on the reforms before the renewal of the Commissions, because otherwise we endorse the idea that blackmail is the legislative line of this majority. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There have been no interventions to make it clear why you want this anteposition: perhaps there is another one that we do not see. However, my request for a change to the timetable concerns the immediate inclusion (friday next belly) of the bill banning the use of the airgun technique, because unfortunately even in the Adriatic Sea there is this sense of blackmail. All local government led Democratic Party had a problem Ombrina, which was blocked from a communicative but not real point of view; blackmail was sold to 1,936 euros a year the Tremiti islands to Petroceltic society, friend of the most fossilized government in the history of this Republic. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u127	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposed changes to the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u130	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the Rules of Procedure to be applied (nothing in particular): in this case, Rule 55 (3). Therefore, before we proceed to the vote, I would ask that a debate be opened, with one speaker per group for no more than ten minutes, and then that we proceed to the vote correctly, as set out in the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u131	I had already said that there had already been the last speech on requests. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm talking about discussion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So I had already said that the various proposals for changes to the timetable could be summed up and we were already in the process of voting. [[Comments.]] It seems to me that they have been widely discussed. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). It is the Rules of Procedure that provide for this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Then someone asks to intervene, because at the moment there is no one. Let us apply the Rules of Procedure if anyone asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u134	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, just to clarify, the point of my speech is the explanation of vote: having listened to all the proposals... I understand. You do not have to explain the Rules of Procedure to me, but you have to speak in an explanation of vote. CRIMI (M5S). I'm also explaining it to the president. There is no need to explain the Rules of Procedure. Make an explanation of vote. CRIMI (M5S). President, I am also trying to explain the meaning of my speech. Look at all the proposed changes in the timetable, a fairly clear picture emerges: according to all the political opposition forces - and also the colleagues of the majority - there is some bad mood (which, for obvious reasons, they cannot show) because the mechanism of speeding up the vote on constitutional reforms is simply subordinate to the need to anticipate it compared to the renewal of the Commissions. You, Mr President, ensured - and you are respecting this commitment - that the Commissions would be renewed in January. Too bad they had to be renewed already in June. All right, it's been six months. You ensured that, upon returning from the Christmas season, they would be renewed. Clearly, it cannot go back on this and, therefore, in order to ensure that the vote on the reforms precedes the renewal of the Commissions, we must speed up that vote. It's all a mess: here it's so clear the blackmail that's behind it, and I use this word because it's blackmail. We saw something similar when we were to vote on the reforms a few months ago and it was scheduled to examine the measure on Senator Calderoli that someone tried to postpone to keep the same senator and his parliamentary group in check. And now it is to keep the minority of the Democratic Party in check that would perhaps vote for something else or the Group of the New Right Centre that I do not hear speaking here. We would also like to hear their opinion, since this month very important measures see them in a very critical position and have already lost some pieces. There is the provision on civil unions that is not known whether it will be scheduled or not, since the Government (in fact, the Democratic Party) prefers to schedule a distrust of the Government first rather than facing the node of civil unions. It's something you've never seen before. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Rather than addressing the issue of civil unions, on which you have a problem - you have to admit - you prefer to have the government vote in the Senate for mistrust, which you have always postponed. The calendar is done by the Conference of Leaders, the President of the Senate does not do so, as has been reported so far. The majority of the group leader is the Democratic Party and, therefore, it is you who chose it. Don't niche or pretend it was someone else who chose it. It is good to say that once it is the President, once it is the majority and that this House is sovereign. Having said that, even from New Right Center I don't see any reaction, but we know that there are bad moods inside it. On behalf of the Group, having heard all the proposed changes to the timetable, I believe that there is a solution to resolve any doubts. This is about removing any doubt, as you have asked loudly on other occasions and even in the last few days you are always ready to say that you must remove any doubt about blackmail. It is enough, Mr President, for us to renew the Commissions before 20 January. And you can choose the date, because the renewal of the Commissions is your decision. Commissions have to meet in half an hour, but 20 minutes is enough. In the past, they have voted in five minutes for the renewal of the Commissions. This afternoon some groups meet, there is time to make meetings and agreements. It is clear that the problem of Commission presidencies is to rebalance the agreements, to remove some uncomfortable presidency and to reward someone who has distinguished himself over the years for having always guaranteed support for the government, despite the fact that he thought differently. This is the situation we are in. There must be no doubt, Mr President, and I believe it is up to you at least to address this invitation to the House that you said you were sovereign and I repeat that too. I believe, however, that your call to settle any doubt may be the solution to all the problems, because it might prompt someone to vote in favour of the reversal of the order of business. Then, since it is up to you to convene the Commissions for the renewal of the Presidencies - it is a ball that bounces towards you and not towards the House - do so before the vote on the reforms. Is the vote on reforms scheduled for 20 January as requested by the PD? Well, then on 17, 18 or 19 January we can come to the Senate, even on Sunday, or whenever you want, and it takes five minutes, as we have already seen. The vote on the Presidency of the Commission takes five minutes: twenty ballot papers to write, vote and peer review. So it's something that can be done at any time. Mr President, I therefore call for the Commission to be renewed in order to avoid any doubt, so that the word 'ricacotto' can no longer be used. At last we will all be calmer and we will no longer use that word to associate it with the Democratic Party, since in the last two years blackmail in the Assembly has been a constant by the Government towards the Democratic Party and the whole Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u135	Senator Crimes, thank you for the clarification, but you know very well that to convene the Commissions, we need nominations from the Groups. There is no substitute power for the President in order to appoint the members of the Commission on his own initiative. Therefore, they can only be convened as a result of the nominations of the Groups. Do I summon who, if they are not designated? CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, that is not the case! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is the current Rules of Procedure. When it's changed... AIROLA (M5S). But why does it change the things Senator Crime says?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u138	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have heard a number of proposals for changing the timetable. You will realize that there is a clear anomaly in this part-session compared with what we usually do about voting on the timetable. And it is an anomaly that reveals a strong discomfort not only in the opposition but, although of course not highlighted with the interventions, also in many members of the majority. The anomaly has been emphasized several times, and that is why we shall vote for all the proposed amendments to the timetable presented. In particular, we will vote on all those proposals which tend to broaden the scope for debate on constitutional reforms, such as that put forward by Senator Caliendo, or those - and there are many - which want to avoid the interference of what Senator Crimi, with a somewhat heavy but very significant term, called political blackmail on the decision of the individual Member to vote or not a draft constitutional reform that leaves wide margin of perplexity in each of us. I believe that in the determination of each of us - and I therefore appeal to colleagues who have to vote individually on the proposed timetable changes - the question must be asked why the sudden acceleration of the vote on the reforms should be raised. There are two answers: the composition of the calendar and the avoidance of problems created by other events of both an internal parliamentary nature, such as the nominations of the Commissions, as well as legislative ones, such as the law on civil unions. And that is precisely why we have, perhaps surprisingly, proposed anticipating the consideration of the measure on civil unions compared to that of constitutional reforms. Firstly, the outcome of both the appointment of the members of the Commission and the debate on civil unions could create some disagreement within the majority that might reverberate on the vote on the reforms. Secondly, perhaps more thought should be given to the friends who formed an unofficial but substantial intergroup: that of the children of 2018, i.e. of all those who joined the Groups in support of the majority because they were told that the legislature would come to its natural end. They have clear one of the obvious reasons for speeding up the vote on reforms. And we also learn from the press of the desire to anticipate as much as possible - even, in some cases, some institutional proposals provide for June this year - the referendum in order to be able to vote immediately. So, dear colleagues who have formed the ideal group of children of 2018, they are shortening your life and you do not want to realize it. The only system is to clear the field from these suspicions and make the decision on the vote on reforms transparent, autonomous and truly free. Therefore, we must vote today on the subject of the debate, making it wider, and also on the final vote on the reforms after the exhaustion of all these important events in Parliament's internal life - see the Commissions - and on the definition of relevant legislation such as that on civil unions, so as to clear the field - as I have already said - from any possible accusation of political conditioning. If the majority were truly serene about the good composition of the text of the reforms in the absence of these constraints, it should itself ask to vote on the reforms at a later time. On the contrary, the fact that the majority insists on voting on them first clearly indicates that it wants to use the prospect of a post in the Commission or an amendment on the draft law on civil unions in order to obtain a favourable vote on the reforms. This is absolutely disdainable and confirms - as I said in my amendment proposal - my absolute conviction that constitutional reform is not done in Parliament, but through a specially elected constituent assembly and free from any conditioning of contingent government activities or legislation on other measures. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). President, it's 1:00.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u139	Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the debate on the proposals to amend the timetable for the proceedings to another sitting. Moreover, there have been no requests for amendments to the afternoon sitting today.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-558.ana.u140	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 3.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 10.01 p.m.
