ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-03064 on the modernization of the railway station in Rovigo. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane reports, between the end of 2012 and the beginning of 2013 Rovigo railway station was the subject of redevelopment work carried out by Centostazioni, a company of the Ferrovie dello Stato Group. These interventions concerned the traveler building, with particular reference to the station atrium, and which consisted in the reordering of the interior spaces, the renovation of the floorings and the coverings and in the setting up of the plants; the sanitary facilities of the station have also been completely renovated. In view of the improvement of the conditions of accessibility to the station and in the context of a first phase of interventions, tactile paths were also realized in continuity with the external ones of the square. All these works were carried out in agreement with RFI, which, as its owner, approved the projects and provided part of the necessary funding. Now, with the funding of RFI already allocated, in 2017 it will be possible to start the second phase of the interventions aimed at improving the conditions of accessibility, in particular the work of raising the station sidewalks to the standard height of 55 cm of height from the plane of the rails and, as part of the commitment to eliminate the architectural barriers, also the construction of lifts on each sidewalk of station. On the new pavements of the pavements will obviously be laid tactile paths for visually impaired, in continuity with what carried out by Centostationi in the previous works in the atrium. RFI estimates predict that the works will be completed by February 2018: in fact, they are complex works that will have to be carried out compatiblely with the railway circulation and with execution times conditioned by the need to guarantee the contemporary railway operation. Of course, with the construction of lifts, it will no longer be necessary to cross the tracks on satin lanes to accompany people with reduced mobility to the different platforms; however, it should be pointed out that this operation - to be carried out as long as the lifts are not available - is now carried out in total safety through the use of specially enabled personnel and in compliance with precise safety procedures. The MIT, for its part, will carry out every necessary deepening in order for RFI to ensure the adaptation of the railway structure of Rovigo in a complete way.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u7	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Vice-Minister, I must welcome this reply, so I am also obliged to take seriously the time that has just been stated to me, so I repeat them in order to comfort all those people who have suffered this discomfort over the years. The architectural barriers are in fact a huge, insurmountable problem for those who, due to physical difficulties, cannot overcome them. We are talking about 52 steps - which I have called "indifference to the problem of others " - that many people with suitcases, but also children, moms with wheelchairs, elderly people, very normal people, have caused a huge discomfort. Finally, your reply gives me satisfaction and I believe that my urgent question has certainly contributed to this commitment by the Government, which I hope will be maintained, because I will clearly make public the promise made by the Government. I have nothing but to thank, not only on behalf of all the citizens of Rovigo - it is, in fact, a station that is also used by neighbouring Provincie for reasons of work, tourism and other - but on behalf of all for this commitment, for having accepted my question aimed at resolving the problem. When there is good news, I also like to give a funny tone, given all the problems we face every day in this House. So, to paraphrase the song of a famous singer-songwriter, I want to imagine that when these architectural barriers are demolished and replaced with tools, means and advanced technologies, probably, thinking of some mom with her baby, in front of these innovations you will feel that children do oh it with wonder. Perhaps, with a little irony, we would also like to believe that all problems can be forgotten if, and only if, they are solved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-02854 on the use of alternative buildings to schools for electoral consultations. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Orellana draws attention to the complaints - which have also been taken up by some press bodies - expressed by the National Association of Presidents, the teaching staff and parents about the inconveniences caused by the interruption of school lessons in conjunction with electoral and referendum consultations. He therefore asked that the proposal of the Association of Principals be accepted to create a register of public buildings, in order to identify alternative locations for school buildings, suitable for the setting up of electoral seats, so as not to undermine the right to education of students. The problem highlighted is known to the Ministry of the Interior that had already dealt with it, together with the Ministry of Education, University and Research, in order at least to reduce its scope. More specifically, the two Dicasteries started a survey, through the municipalities and prefectures, to identify public buildings that could fully replace the school complexes as headquarters of the section electoral offices throughout the national territory. However, the initiative has not been followed up very frankly, as it has revealed that there are absolutely insufficient extracurricular facilities suitable for this purpose. To date, out of a total of 61,553 sections on a national basis, there are 6,979 (i.e. 11,34 percent) sections located in extra-school buildings. It is not a high percentage in absolute terms, but nevertheless revealing the attempt by the municipal authorities not to involve school buildings in the organisation of popular consultations, obviously in cases where this is materially possible for the presence of alternative public buildings. As for the choice of the type of school (of childhood, primary or secondary) or in any case of the building seat, I recall that (under the combined provisions of Article 35 of the decree of the President of the Republic No 223 of 1967 and Article 26, paragraph 13, of Law No 340 of 2000) the place of meeting of the electoral sections is established locally by the electoral officer of each municipality, obviously taking into account the needs of the respective territory and the condition of the places.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u12	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for the response that was partly awaited, precisely because I realize that I have raised a well-known problem linked to our republican history. The data he has provided unfortunately confirm the situation of particular difficulty in finding out-of-school seats for electoral consultations. I believe, however, that the problem is becoming more and more urgent and that it affects both families and teachers more and more and that in some way it must be dealt with in a structural way. I also say this because if the outcome of the referendum is positive, the reform will also lead to the introduction of a referendum of a proactive type and direction and, therefore, to increase the opportunities for direct involvement of the population; opportunities that I welcome. This will also lead to a double shift: I am thinking, for example, of the roll-out in the case of Italicum, as it was approved in Parliament; in fact, as far as we can imagine amending that law, at present we have a situation in which we can certainly have not only a first round, but also a second round in the parliamentary elections, as well as regional and European consultations. The need to involve the electoral body is therefore very present, but no less we need to give school continuity and the possibility for students to continue regularly their course of study without repeated interruptions. Last but not least, I have pointed out - and the Undersecretary has taken this aspect - the peculiar situation of primary schools, which I believe deserve special attention, since some families are in great difficulty in the face of an interruption of the lessons that begins on Saturday and lasts until Monday or Tuesday for the screening of votes. I believe that this issue has not received a completely satisfactory response. I take the interest, so I am satisfied with the answer, but not with the solution, because I do not see it and I do not see it, whereas we should all make an effort, involving not only the municipalities and regional electoral offices, but also other ministries, to find an appropriate solution and increase this reduced number of structures, currently equal to 11%. I therefore believe that we must increase this percentage as far as possible in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u13	The following are questions 3-02025 and 3-03280 on the protection of food safety in the dairy sector. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the analogy of the issues represented by the interrogating senators, I felt it appropriate to provide a joint response. First of all, I would like to point out that, in order to protect the image of our products, our dairy tradition and, above all, for proper information to consumers, we have always supported, in all national, European and international fora, the obligation to indicate on the label the origin of the products and raw materials used for their manufacture. The European green light has now been adopted for the draft decree introducing compulsory indication of origin for dairy products in Italy. The European Commission has not raised any comments or objections within the deadline. This system, which will enter into force from 1 January 2017, will clearly indicate to the consumer the origin of the raw materials of many products such as milk, butter, yogurt, mozzarella, cheese and dairy products. This is a long-awaited step, which will allow us to exploit the work of our farmers and the entire dairy sector. Italy is at the forefront of experimentation on the maximum transparency of consumer information. Our objective is that this rule should be extended to the whole of the European Union, thus giving more instruments of competitiveness and income protection to producers. The decree provides in particular that the milk or its derivatives must have indicated the origin of the raw material on the label, in particular always indicating the country of milking the milk. Only PDO and PGI products, which already have specifications relating to origin, and fresh milk already traced, are excluded. As regards the call to the World Trade Organization (WTO) to protect the territorial identity of food, I would point out that this agreement does not regulate the issues of product labelling. In this context, in fact, assessments of the labelling rules shall take place if a Member State considers the rules imposed by another Member to be restrictive of trade.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u17	Bisinella (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for his presence and response. I have to say that on the one hand I am encouraged by the progress made on the subject of compulsory labelling of our products and, on the other hand, by the fact that I have acted, even with insistence, in all the places, I cannot fail to stress the initiation of this procedure in the European Commission. I am happy to learn the news that we have already arrived at the preparation of a draft decree, which is also a step we have always supported for the defence of the sector. However, in my question, I raised another issue and I specifically called for the warning that the European Commission sent Italy on national legislation (our law No 138 of 1974) prohibiting the use of milk powder to produce cheese, yoghurt, and food milk to all dairy farmers located in our national territory. With regard to this procedure of warning, Mr Deputy Minister, I have not heard a report of how things are going and I have not had a precise answer on this matter. I would remind you that the European Commission has considered that our national law protecting the quality of production represents a restriction on the free movement of goods, since milk powder and concentrated milk are used throughout Europe. In our view, this is very dangerous and I would like to stress a strong position of all the trade associations, particularly the dairy sector, precisely to indicate the strong concern that remains in me and I believe remains in the sector as a whole, until there is a positive response to a dialogue that must take place with a strong position in Europe, for a fair defence of our products. I am aware that this legislation does not affect the economy of PDO cheeses because, as you mentioned, there are already clear production disciplinary rules that refer to the origin and quality of milk. However, it remains a strong concern for all other productions, which represent 50% - I would like to remind you - of the Italian dairy product. This legislation, that is, the imposition by Europe on Italy to remove this ban and therefore to enter into an extended production mechanism, so that these powder and derived products are put on the market, could make what I call a decisive blow that can endanger the work of our farmers. Among other things, I would remind you that milk producers - as you will well know - are already in great economic suffering also because of the price of milk at the stable, which is paid, unlike other countries, especially in Northern Europe, in a very discriminatory way: in Veneto from 32 to 38 cents per litre, which is not even enough to cover production costs. We record a continuous closing of stables, with all the problems connected, because then comes a serious damage for all the induced. The European Commission's call for our legislation to be adapted to a much more permissive European regulation reduces the hopes of recovery for this sector even more. I shall therefore end by wishing - if anything - to present a subsequent act to ask for details of the procedure of warning Italy initiated by the European Commission - urgent and precise actions that will go against this Constitution in time and that can truly defend the production and quality of our products. I remember the excellence of our Made in Italy and our agri-food products and also the need to defend the food safety of consumers who have the right to know (on this note that labelling is absolutely a significant step forward). The problem remains of safeguarding the quality of products, which is essential in order to ensure the protection not only of our products, but also of food safety and consumer health.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u20	AMORUSO (AL-A). Mr President, Mr Olivero, I must link myself to what Mr Bisinella has already said, although I am very pleased to hear today that the Government is prepared to protect the image of the Italian product, with the obligation to indicate the origin of milk and raw material, which is a very important fact, which is strongly requested by all the trade associations. My question, however, like that of Senator Bisinella, concerned the European Commission's warning that Italy would put an end to the ban on the production of dairy products through the use of milk powder, concentrated or reconstituted. We would therefore like the government to clarify this, because it is like saying that we want to authorise the production of cheese or dairy products without milk. Just considering the aim of defending our products and made in Italy, our history, our food tradition and our culture and considering what this market represents from the economic point of view, it is an extremely serious fact. We cannot therefore respond to these requests from the European Commission. Law No 138 of 1974, which has been recalled, is a fundamental law, intended to defend and guarantee the Italian product. Italian production plays a role in world markets, precisely because we offer quality products, made in a certain way. In Italy we have 35,000 breeders and 487 types of special cheeses and the producers of dairy products are thousands. I come from a region, Puglia, which produces in considerable quantities exceptional products of this type. These producers, therefore, can only try to have support from the Government in defending their specificity and quality, because only in this way can we be accepted in the world market, otherwise we will be approved to multinational companies, which the European Commission is often more attentive to, than the needs of local producers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u21	Following is the question 3-03227 on initiatives to support bluefin tuna fishing. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, national legislation on this subject is aligned with the supranational regulatory framework, in particular with the provisions of Articles 8 and 9 of Regulation No 1627 of 2016. The national measures on the allocation of the catch quota for bluefin tuna from the 2015-2017 period are based on the principle of transparency, the principle of relative stability and the absolutely defined economic sustainability within the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT), together with the traditional historical catch levels. Regulation No 1627 of 2016 has transposed the provisions of ICCAT Recommendation 14-04, which is binding on the European Union. This supranational rule, while providing for the progressive increase of the Total Allowable Catch (TAC), nevertheless intended to maintain a precautionary approach in the management of the relationship between fishing opportunities and capacity. This in order to avoid that the benefits (in terms of stock conservation and recovery) resulting from the most stringent multiannual plans applied in the previous five-year period 2010-2014 could be affected by too many authorised operators. Although this numerical limit (for example, even more stringent for the specific sector of the "circuit"), which is exceptional and/or residual, may be waived if the Contracting Party and/or the Member State proves that it is impossible to fully exploit the allocated catch quota, I note that this has never been the case for the annual national fleets authorised to target bluefin tuna. The legitimate expectations of marine vessels not expressly authorised to target bluefin tuna (including artisanal tuna) are met through by-catches. In this regard, for the next fishing year, the further increase, compared to 2016, of the relative plafond as well as the possible confirmation (where the assumptions apply) of an increase of the annual limit, as already operated in the course of 2016 with the ministerial decree 5 April 2016, with which it has gone from seven hundred fifty to nine hundred kilograms per year per boat.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u25	Mr Albano (PD). Mr. Deputy Minister, thank you for your prompt answer to our question. I am sorry, however, to have to confirm that I am not fully satisfied with the decision, taken again this year, to confirm only the forty-two vessels already authorised for bluefin tuna fishing, assigning them the increase of the quotas decided between Icatt and the European Commission, which go, as he said, from seven hundred and fifty to nine hundred kilograms per vessel. Confirming, in fact, this choice, it protects and respects the dynamics of the fish stock. Therefore, the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 1627 2016 are fully complied with, but support for small-scale small-scale fisheries, as provided for in Article 8 of that Regulation, is still neglected. I would add, moreover, that in the decree of the MIPAAF of 17 May 2015, in paragraph 3 of Article 2, it is expressly expected that if the legal-technical framework had changed as a result of changes in legislation (which came precisely with the EU Regulation 1627) the distribution tables between the individual systems would be modified. And, unfortunately, I note that this has not happened; especially if we consider that in implementing the recovery plan, the Union and the Member States should work to promote coastal fishing activities and the use of selective fishing gear and techniques, which have a reduced environmental impact, including gear and techniques used in artisanal and traditional fishing, and in particular by directing Member States to limit the increase in quotas for tuna, which is referred to as the most destructive system of tuna fishing. Given that the tuna is catching them during the breeding period, it is not clear why increases to small-scale fishing vessels should not be allocated in order to "contribute to a fair standard of living for local economies." As we have repeatedly argued in the course of our mandate, both the undersigned and the other signatories of the question, the quotas of the by-catches made by the Ligurian and Sardinian companies in particular, are considered insufficient for the continuation of the economic activity by the operators, operators that the EU regulation would like to protect. In conclusion, it is again called upon to reconsider the authorisation schemes adopted in order to be able to distribute any future increases in quotas also among small-scale craft vessels, so - in our view - that the economy of several territories can also be protected, in the spirit of the new regulation of the European Union.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u26	Following is the question 3-02343 on an alleged case of abuse of the medical profession in Veneto and Trentino. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this question, I think it is appropriate to point out in advance that the question raised by the questioners is primarily a matter for the local authorities. In fact, following the amendment of Title V of the Constitution, pursuant to Constitutional Law No. 3 of 18 October 2001, the current distribution of health competences, already initiated by Law No. 883 of 23 December 1978, and subsequent reforms implemented by Legislative Decree No. 502 of 1992, No. 517 of 1993 and No. 229 of 1999. Currently the regulatory framework therefore entrusts to the Regions the powers of supervision and control on the organizational and operating modalities of the health companies and to the companies themselves, in the figure of the general manager, the management and organizational responsibility. Therefore, the management of the competition procedures and their recruitment is part of the specific activity, competence and responsibility of the reference health company which, as such, has the duty to carry out the appropriate checks with respect to the truthfulness of the declarations made by the candidates, in order to verify that the documentation provided by them corresponds, from the substantive point of view, to the actual possession of the required requirements. Having made this necessary clarification and passing in particular to the case that interests here, I provide, below, the elements received, through the competent prefecture, from the council to health and social policies of the Autonomous Province of Trento. Firstly, it should be noted that the provincial health service company in Trento reported that Mr A's degree and professional qualification had not been obtained. S. to the competent judicial bodies, providing them with the documents required for the carrying out of the activities in progress. In addition, the company has communicated to the prosecutor of the Court of Auditors the elements useful for the assessment of the damage suffered by the provincial company, should the facts charged to the person in question be established. With regard to the last point of the question, it is communicated that, in accordance with the rule of Article 71 of the decree of the President of the Republic of 28 December 2000, No 445, as last regulated by the resolution of the provincial holding, revising Resolution No 1423 of 2004 on checks on the replacement declarations of certification and of the act of notoriety, on the occasion of new recruitments, the administration shall establish a systematic verification, with so-called sweeping checks, of the replacement declarations made. In these circumstances, it is provided for verification of the registration in respect of the professions for which membership in a professional order is required and verification of the possession of the qualification in cases where the latter is different from that necessary for registration in the register (as is the case, for example, for specializations), or in cases where the recruitment concerns qualifications for which no membership in a professional register is required. It is recalled that before the aforementioned decree of the President of the Republic n. 445, in the reference years of the case concerned the law 4 January 1968, n. 15 was applied, where in Article 2 (the replacement declarations of certifications) it was expected that facts, states and personal qualities, including registrations in albums, were confirmed by declarations signed by the person concerned and produced in place of normal certifications. Hence, the role of the reference professional order as guarantor, on the one hand, of the proper exercise of the profession by the persons in possession of the requirements required by law and, on the other hand, of the necessary control over their members. With regard to the activity provided in Veneto, it is specified that the same Region, through the prefecture of Venice, has communicated to the Ministry of Health that, with note of October 7, 2010, were given to the companies and bodies of the regional health system indications for the carrying out of the checks, against the employees, the identification documents and the qualifying titles to carry out the functions proper to the profile of classification. In addition, with reference to the present case, the general manager of the company ULSS of Mirano represented that the activity carried out by Mr A. S. was not rendered in the context of an employed employment relationship, but was part of a small service contract entrusted to a company for the carrying out of certain medical watches in the pediatric departments, if, exceptionally, due to the sudden shortage of staff, it was difficult to guarantee on-call services. It is further specified by the same director that the special specifications provide for two levels of controls in the field of staff enabling qualifications: a control entrusted to the direct responsibility of the contractor and a control carried out by the company ULSS. The latter was carried out, in compliance with the provisions of the regional directives, by direct consultation of the Order of Doctors of Ferrara. In any event, according to the Director-General, Mr A. S. had a long-term service activity with public bodies and health care companies, he was widely known by the company's medical staff as an experienced professional and with a primary qualification........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Finally, the Director-General of the health care company in Bassano del Grappa informed that specialization was not required for recruitment until 1 February 1998, when it became compulsory pursuant to Article 24 of the decree of the President of the Republic No 483 of 10 February 1997, with the exception of staff in the post on that date. Therefore, the titles of which Mr A. S. had to be in possession for the purposes of the recruitment, they were limited to the degree, the qualification to the exercise of the profession and the registration to the Order of doctors surgeons and dental practitioners, which in turn underlies the possession of the previous two qualifications as indispensable requirements. Finally, but not least, I think it is important to point out that the same director of the ASL has indicated that Mr A. S. has never held roles of apical responsibility at the company and in any case to be in possession not only of conform copies of the certificates of degree and of certification to the exercise of the profession, authenticated by a notary, but also and above all of the certificate in original issued by the Provincial Order of surgeons and dental practitioners of Ferrara.From this results the date of obtaining the degree, the qualification to the exercise of the profession and the registration to the professional register. The case is open.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u30	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I too take up the words of the Undersecretary: the case is open, in the sense that it is a complex case. I would like to thank Mr De Filippo for his reply. It is no coincidence that I had asked both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice, because I realize that the issue is actually a bit delicate and complex and it affects some people very closely. I note and reserve the right to recover the text of the reply, of which I am of course satisfied. On the merits, I want to reread the answer to understand well, because some passages still leave the mystery around this situation occurred in Trentino and Veneto. However, there is an open procedure and I understand that in the next few days there will be a specific debate, so let us leave it to justice to clarify the whole matter. I take note of everything, knowing that some of the people who have suffered the damage - I know those of Riva del Garda - have at least been compensated at a civil level; the health company and insurance have done their part. When we talk about health we ask for something more from everyone, so it is clear that there is a personal responsibility and responsibility of the institutions, both at local level and at national level, on which perhaps we should still reflect. Clearly, when certain episodes concerning health occur, although we know that in carrying out the activities they can happen (taking note of a situation linked to contracted services) when there is a mystery about qualifications and ratings we should all make a further reflection. When these cases - which are fortunately few - take place, it is appropriate that they lead to a reflection on who is responsible, that is, who has the responsibility to guarantee this part of the Constitution, which we have not changed, with respect to the right to health of the citizens, which must be guaranteed in the best possible way. With regard to this, we hope that clarity will be made in the appropriate fora. I reserve the right to read the full text. Meanwhile, I welcome and am satisfied with all the additional elements, which I personally did not have, which will enable us to manage this issue as effectively as possible, including in our relations with the citizens, so that politics, as far as possible, will at least be the spokesperson for these complex, often difficult situations, whose consequences for those who suffer from it could last for the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u31	Following is the question 3-03092 on the reorganization of the hospital network in Emilia-Romagna. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u32	Mr President, the parliamentary question under consideration is answered on the basis of the information from the Forlì-Cesena prefecture. As considered by the Director-General of the local health company of Romagna, on the specific case referred to by the question, all operators - according to the Director-General - have acted correctly in accordance with the shared and consolidated lines. The same has specified that already from the year 2006 in application of the regional plan PRIMA RER (Project acute myocardial infarction Region Emilia-Romagna) in the territory Romagna have been identified from the sanitary programming, according to the model of the integrated net hub & spoke, three centers in order to carry out the interventions of primary angioplasty in course of IMA Stemi, that are Forlì, Rimini and Ravenna. Therefore, sending patients with IMA Stemi from the Cesena region to the hemodynamics room follows the criteria of proximity, according to an active network model since 2006, which assigns cases to the nearest hospital between the hubs of Rimini or Forlì. Over the next ten years, the network has developed further and improved the centralization paths in the above mentioned locations and the competence of professionals operating in Romagna in the field of interventional hemodynamics, obtaining very valid results both in terms of reduction of mortality (which shows no differences between the citizens of Forlì and those of Cesena), and in cases treated, as well as of intervention times when activated 118 in the territorial emergency report. The hemodynamic activity of the Forlì headquarters sees the participation, already for some time, of the cardiologists of the team of Cesena in the organization of the activities and the availability, allowing a distribution of the competences in the territory and the maintenance at the hospital center of Cesena of the offer of scheduled performances of coronary and angioplasty within adequate waiting times, as well as the development of the activity of electrophysiology. This close integration, which is an example of synergy between homogeneous teams, can be further increased and constitutes an organisational model that is also valid for other specialist branches, with a view to a correct balance between effectiveness and efficiency on the one hand and sustainability on the other. The indicators that have been recalled by the regional cardiological and cardiosurgery commission in the document of September 2014, from the regional resolution 2040 of December 2015, containing the guidelines for the reorganization of the hospital network according to the standards provided by law n. 135 of 2012, the pact for health 2014-2016 and ministerial decree n. 70 of 2015, confirm the validity of the current model of Romagna, which has been the subject of presentation and debate several times in occasion of public comparisons, including the fourth committee recommended by the City of Cesena, on 20 May 2015 and the press conference of 8 August 2016. Specifically, within the framework of Cesena-Forlì, within the model of the cardiological welfare network, the development lines put in place for 2016 by the cardiovascular department of ASL Romagna concern the strengthening of the planned activity at Cesena and further synergies that can be achieved with the integration of professional skills and the offer with the team of the hub headquarters, within a comprehensive project that aims to make equal access to care to all citizens, regardless of the geographical area of residence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u35	SIMONI (Mist). I thank the Ministry of Health, represented here by the Undersecretary De Filippo, for the attention he wanted to devote to the case relating to the death of a patient during the transport between the hospital Bufalini of Cesena and the Hospital Morgagni-Pierantoni of Forlì. Having said that, I can only be partially satisfied with the answer received because the problem of the reckless reduction of public health appropriations, which has not found the appropriate space in the Secretary's reply, has created, created and will create many tragic situations, such as the one just mentioned: we must all be well aware of this. The poor interpretation of the spending review in the health sector is creating situations everywhere, in our country, of serious and serious disservices, of which citizens are the victims predestined. To think that spending review means to reduce or at least reduce the provision of health, rather than to tackle concretely and systematically the fight against the numerous waste that we assist daily in every hospital and in every ASL, is the only real action that the Ministry should activate. Closen a coronary intensive care unit, in this or that hospital, never means saving; however - and this must be said very clearly - savings can never be made by playing with people's lives and deaths. What actual savings have been made? Has anyone ever calculated this, both in strictly economic terms and from the point of view of citizens' right to health? How much is a lost life worth? Who has decided to give priority to the permanence or elimination of one service in one hospital and leave it in another has placed only the economic problem or has studied the different alternatives, so as to always be able to safeguard the maximum good that is the life of the patient? If I were to give an answer, based on the case we are debating today, I would have to say that, of course, this has not happened. I would like to remind everyone in this House that the loss of every human life should always be thoroughly analysed in order to avoid the repetition, in the future, of tragic and fatal events such as that of Cesena.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u36	Following is the question 3-03072 on the alleged financing of the Ministry of the Environment at the foundation in support of Hillary Clinton. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the issues raised by the Senator, on the basis of the elements acquired by the competent Directorate-General of the Ministry of the Environment, by note of 7 November 2016, the following is to be found. The Ministry of the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea has joined in the past to the foundation Clinton Global Initiative (cited from the questioner like Bill Hillary & Chelsea Clinton Foundation) in the years 2009-2010-2011-2013, corresponding, for each of these years, the membership quota previewed of 20,000 dollars (i.e. 14,065 euros in 2009, 14,570,88 euros in 2010, 14,490 euros in 2011 and 14,765,59 euros in 2013). This organisation, founded by President Clinton as a moment of meeting and exchange between governments, the private sector and non-governmental organisations, involves four thematic areas such as economic empowerment, education, environment and energy and global health, giving rise to actions to approach environmental sustainability models and the presentation of projects in the context of sustainable development and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in developing countries, to which Italy's contribution was destined. The relative measures of expenditure, issued by directorial decree in the past years, have been carried out from the budget chapters: 2,214 for the years 2009 and 2010, 2,038 for 2011 and 2,215 for 2013. From the above, it is clear, therefore, that the contribution by the Ministry has been interrupted since 2014, the year of installation of the present Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u40	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for the punctuality of his reply. I am pleased to learn that this funding has not been provided in recent years. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that, of course, it would have been better, for anyone who has prepared it (as the years tell us), to turn to another body to avoid entering, even indirectly, a political area of another country. It is clear that Hillary Clinton's candidacy was not born suddenly, the day before yesterday, but it was born many years ago, so much so that in 2008 she was nominated for the presidency. I hope that there will no longer be such questionable decisions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u41	Question 3-03124 follows on the consequences of waste treatment in Gricignano di Aversa, in the province of Caserta. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u42	Mr President, with reference to the issues related to Eco Transider Srl in Gricignano di Aversa (Caserta), on the basis of the elements acquired by the appropriate Directorate-General of the Ministry of the Environment and the competent territorial authorities, the following is represented to Senator Romano and the Assembly. It must be pointed out, in advance, that the competence in the matter of the authorization of waste management plants is in charge of the regional administrations as regards, as in the case at hand, the performance of the functions provided for in article 196, paragraph 1, letters d) and e) of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006. It is also useful to point out that, under environmental legislation, the territorial competence for the control of waste management activities, including the verification of the infringements referred to in Part Four of the single environmental text, lies with the Provinces or Regions to which these powers may have been transferred following their abolition. Those competent authorities shall carry out appropriate periodic checks on establishments which dispose of waste and may, for the purpose of carrying out these tasks, also avail themselves of public bodies, including regional environmental protection agencies with specific experience and expertise in this field. As regards the present case, it should be noted that the company is authorised under the ordinary regional procedure, pursuant to Article 208 of the single environmental text, to operate a disposal and recovery plant for hazardous and non-hazardous waste, as well as emissions into the atmosphere and that, on 5 September 2014, it submitted an application to obtain the integrated environmental authorisation referred to in Article 29-b of Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006, for which the authorisation procedures are still in progress. It is also represented that, according to reports from Caserta's prefecture, the company Eco Transider Srl is currently subject to controlled administration, following a seizure order adopted, on July 10, 2012, by the court of Naples, and the preventive seizure ordered by the court of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, on September 23, 2013. As regards the technical aspects, the plant in question has been subjected, in recent years, to numerous inspection activities by ARPA Campania. Specifically, as reported by the aforementioned agency, during the inspection carried out on 29 August 2016 by the technicians of the ARPAC of Caserta, together with the local police command of Gricignano di Aversa, several management criticalities have been found related to the carrying out of unauthorized operations, including the non-compliance with the requirements related to hazardous and non-waste, the absence of integrated environmental authorisation and, at the same time, were given by the ARPAC personnel precise requirements for the resolution of the found criticalities. It was required, in particular, to restore the storage areas outside and within the plant; to adopt the arrangements for the storage of hazardous and non-dangerous waste in accordance with the capacities of the individual storage areas; to contain the height of the heaps as authorised; to adhere to the quantitative limit of the storageable waste. In addition, in order to allow a more effective control of the operation of emission treatment systems, the agency requested the company to implement the scrubber plant with a continuous flowmeter in the input, with an indicator of the number of hours of operation. It is also represented that, in order to improve the quality of emissions, especially those with high osmogenic power, the department of the ARPAC of Caserta, in the conferences of services held for the release of authorization acts, has imposed to the company the realization of systems of abatement that, if managed properly, lead to a marked improvement of the problem of olfactory harassment. Also the Campania Region has intervened in the matter under consideration, both with executive decree of November 2015 of the junta department of health and natural resources, general direction for the environment and the ecosystem, with which it has given to the company a series of prescriptions, and with acts of warning issued after the judicial seizure of the plant, as well as as as a consequence of the numerous inspections of the judicial and control authority. Following the communication of the ARPAC of Caserta of the results of the last inspection carried out at the plant in August 2016, the competent management unit of Caserta of the Campania Region issued a new act of caution that, in the more of the definition of the criminal procedure, proposes the prescriptions already issued, while requiring the ARPAC to carry out a new inspection for the verification of compliance with the same. For the sake of complete information, it should also be noted that the consortium for the industrial development area (ASI) of Caserta, on 15 September 2016, announced that it had withdrawn the land allocation in Gricignano di Aversa for a total of 31,195 square metres in favour of the consortium Steel Woman srl and its consortia, including the company Eco Transider Srl. Moreover, in order to acquire the details necessary to carry out the appropriate assessments in relation to the possible environmental damage profiles, the competent Directorate-General of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, with note of 18 October last, has urged the local authorities territorially competent to send urgently updated information on the current state of the places and the initiatives undertaken to protect the environment and public health. The information and documentation collected in response will be sent to ISPRA, which will prepare the environmental damage assessment report on behalf of the Ministry. With the same note it has been asked to the ARPAC and the local authorities to continue to keep updated the general direction of the Ministry regarding the effectiveness of the activities of safety and restoration, identified in the report of inspection of the ARPAC, to which the company must provide as a result of the fire last 5 October. Finally, with the aforementioned note it was asked the prosecutor of the Republic of Santa Maria Capua Vetere to inform the Ministry if criminal proceedings are in progress about the matter in question. In the light of the information presented, as far as its competence is concerned, the Ministry will continue to keep itself informed and will continue to carry out an activity of solicitation towards the territorially competent subjects, also in order to evaluate possible involvements of other institutional entities.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u45	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for the detailed and timely reply he has given to us on a matter that has greatly disturbed the territory not only of the municipality in question, Gricignano di Aversa, but the whole area. It refers to a very debated, controversial issue, I would also say controversy, which also concerns the conflict of competences that comes to be determined on various territories, specifically the Campania one, with regard to the consequent responsibilities in areas that are in themselves competitors. It is clear that citizens' health and the health of the environment are constitutionally protected fundamental rights of primary importance. And it is also clear that on this air pollution, generically defined as "miasmi", no clarity has yet been made, in the light of the analyses made and even more so following the last fire last October (a few days ago therefore), regarding the possible presence in the air of those pollutants that, as we know, have a significant impact, and are seriously damaging, towards health; pollutants of which we know neither the size nor the quality. Just remember the nitrogen oxide and sulfur oxide, the atmospheric particulates, the aromatic hydrocarbons: in short, this air pollution is not simply attributable to a bad smell that came from certain companies, but must ask us about the repercussions that can be had on a healthy level. Mr Deputy Minister, I would also like to thank you for the diligence of your reply, because the question is relatively recent (from 14 September of the current year) on a matter which also shows an absolute necessity, that of continuously monitoring a territory that has already been characterized by a history, not even so far away, of heavy pollution extremely damaging not only for the liveability, but also for the survival of the citizens. Suffice it to say, without this meaning a direct correlation between the pollution we have talked about and the results, that according to the latest report of the cancer register of the ASL of Caserta, whose data refer to the years 2008-2010 (but are being updated for the following years), for the 104 municipalities of the province of Caserta - I quote pointly the report itself - the standardised incidence rates of tumors are significantly higher than in the South; so with regard to mortality rates, although for women the rates are lower than in the North. I believe that this indicates the absolute necessity that responsibility, not in the purely judicial sense but in the broad sense of the word, therefore understood as taking care of the environment and the health of the citizens, is not only at the head of the institutions or agencies at the territorial level, but sees, as you have just explained to us, an attention aimed at taking care of our territories also at the level of the Ministry of the Environment. I believe that this is a significant commitment that I am satisfied with, Mr Vice-Minister, for a very simple reason: because otherwise our territories will continue to be vexed by serious incidents detrimental to the environment and to the health of the citizens themselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u46	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-721.ana.u47	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 15 November, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.09 a.m.
