ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 14 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.32).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as is sadly known, on Thursday 14 July in Nice, a few months away from the Bataclan massacre, the French friend was once again struck by a vicious and vile attack. The victims' accounts give us the figures of an authentic slaughter: eighty-four deaths, more than two hundred injured, of which at least fifty in very serious conditions; about ten of our fellow countrymen involved, among whom we are unfortunately mourning six victims. Many of the people savagely overwhelmed by that truck thrown into the crowd or pierced by bullets are children and teenagers. The images of those little bodies tormented on the road, with toys or strollers forcedly abandoned next to them, increase in all of us the pain and disturbance for this absurd massacre. To these innocents, to their childhood unjustly violated and prematurely interrupted, must go our first thought, our strongest embrace and our most moved participation. Terrorist ferocity struck precisely on the night of the celebration of an emblematic event not only for French history, but also for all the advanced democracies that are inspired by the values of freedom, equality and brotherhood among the people. Among the victims are people of different nationalities, ethnicity and religion who were at that time sharing moments of joy and serene conviviality. This makes the attack take on an even more dramatic symbolic value because those families, at that time, represented the union of different peoples and traditions, in the name of mutual respect and shared values. The massacre in Nice, after those that have plagued the whole world, increases our condemnation of terrorist violence unable to stop even in the face of the innocence of helpless children. Faced with a molecular terrorism, which is difficult to predict, in which an individual can affect dozens of people at any time and anywhere, political institutions and forces must identify and implement every useful instrument for the prevention and repression of terrorism, to defend and preserve those values of freedom, equality and brotherhood that were dramatically affected on 14 July. This must also constitute a precise moral duty for all of us, as individuals and as citizens. The Senate of the Republic therefore joins, with deep participation, the pain of the French people and its institutions, represented here by the ambassador of France, Catherine Colonna, whom we greet and thank for her presence in the gallery. [[Applause.]] In the emotional memory of those who have lost their lives, in their affectionate closeness to the wounded and to the families of the victims, I call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u7	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, it is not easy to intervene at these moments, after events like this, which is certainly not the first and unfortunately will not be the last, because so many others are already anticipated. It is not easy because we are talking about immanist tragedies, the death of children and so many people who, in full serenity, celebrate the French national feast. Fireworks, and then an Islamist madman who decides to overwhelm those people and massacre children: he would pass with the wheels of his truck even on the bodies of the children, shooting like nothing else, animated by an endless hatred. What is worse is that we continue to commemorate these tragedies, as if nothing had happened. [[Brusio]] Moreover, as you can see, this commemoration is of little or no interest.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u8	I call on Members of this House to follow the commemoration of the massacre in Nice in silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u9	Tarquinio (CoR). Even when it comes to tragedies, we underestimate what is happening with us and in the world. It's a dramatic and very difficult time. We're getting used to it now. Eighty-four dead today, one hundred yesterday, two hundred in Baghdad. Everything seems normal. ISIS is getting the effect it wanted: fear. There's all the fear. There is a fear of going everywhere, in Italy and in Europe. There's terror. They're getting what they wanted, and we're favoring this, with a fatalism that has incredible. There is no kind of reaction, first of all in cultural terms. The moment we abandoned the defence of our values and identity, what do we expect? We respect the values, identity and religion of others, but it is inconceivable that they cannot respect ours. It is inconceivable that we should come here, as elsewhere, to try to impose our own will. The defence of our Christian values and culture is a duty of a Europe that is not even in this. [[Applause from the CoR Group]] It's not in this! There's no set, there's no single police. There's absolutely nothing. He's exposed to everything. But what are we paying today? France is the country of integration par excellence and is paying the highest price. But also there - I say this with serenity, because you have also seen it in the reaction of the people in Nice - people are fed up and are ready to give up some freedom to have a minimum of security, not to get used to living in terror. What are we gonna do, lock ourselves in the house? Do we all want to look in the mirror? I am amazed when I hear people I value and respect, like Minister Alfano, say with serenity that everything is under control. I'd like to ask him, Minister, do you go on the streets? Do you go to any station, any city in Italy? Do you realize what's going on? Do you realize that this cannot go on, with this indiscriminate entry of everything and everyone that has been happening for years now? Thousands a day come and we can't do anything. Did you see what happened to Elba Island? It will happen everywhere - I have said it several times - and when this problem breaks out in your hands people's reaction will be uncontrolled. A Government and a Parliament have a duty to lead this process before there are serious problems. You can't be like that. We cannot always bow our heads to the needs of others: this is not being against Muslims, it is not being Islamophobic, but first of all being Christian. It is not possible that even high Catholic hierarchies do not spend a word on the massacre of Christians in the world and they waste rivers of words on one Muslim: it is incredible. I want to spend words of humanity and Christendom on any religion and any people. However, it is not possible to give up everything. For what? Welcoming is certainly an act of mercy, but there must also be mercy for our home, for our poor and disinherited. We are ready to welcome everyone, but not to be overwhelmed by fearful and incredible problems because then there will be no political force that can withstand the anger of the people, who have no political color compared to everyday problems. Should we reduce ourselves as in Israel, where mothers send their children on different buses to school because at least one of them dies? Do we have to do this? Do we have to stop living? Don't we have to go to a restaurant anymore? Our children or ourselves: do we want this? Or should we continue to commemorate - as we do today - the 84 victims (for now) of Nice, who are the last of a series? And we hope that the last ones remain, but I have some doubts, because there are no real reactions. A divided Europe, the unsure United States, is a general confusion; we lacked only Turkey with all the limitations of what happened. What is happening in terms of repression has nothing to do with a community that hopes to join the European Economic Community and is even in NATO. Beyond everything, these are true reflections and we must have the courage to express them, beyond our own economic interests, in order to denounce the contradictions of an Arab world that often finances terrorism, as the Western countries have often done. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups.]] Unfortunately, France itself, the United States itself and England itself. But we, as Italy, what are we doing to protect our people without hurting others? Full freedom for everything? And for Christians what is there? What do we say? Away with the crucifix? We eliminate our Christian culture: no more a Christmas tree, because otherwise... Are you kidding me? These are values and customs. There are countries whose democracy is based on custom. We're miles away from this. We must react as quickly as possible, affirming our Christendom and our values and explaining to all that we come to our home by respecting our laws first and foremost, but they must be applied. It is not that Italy can become the country of Bengodi where you come because so much here they do not condemn anyone: so the Romanians say, so the Georgians say. It's unbelievable. We need a real awareness and I tell those who govern us and ourselves. Look at what happens on the streets, look at what happens in the country, not with the eyes of the political side, but with the eyes of the real citizen who can no longer, because he no longer sees a normal civil life. From this point of view, I would like to make a genuine appeal for us to start reacting or for everyone to do their part. You don't force everyone to even become extremists to get something. On the other hand, just look at the bill that introduces the crime of torture: it is an inappropriate measure compared to the issues discussed and what we have to ask our law enforcement and police forces. There can be no doubt: people have to work peacefully at a dramatic time like this and we think about this. The country has economic problems, it has terrorism problems, in Europe and in the world, and we think about this. Let's think about cannabis, let's think about something else. Other are the real centralities, the real problems, including this: the lives of our culture and the lives of future generations abandoned and always there to bow their heads. It's no longer possible. As far as I am concerned, as far as the Conservatives and Reformists are concerned, for what little we can do, we will carry out a battle to preserve democracy in this country and the Christian and cultural values of Italy and Europe. [[Applause from the CoR, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC) and Mixed Groups and Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u12	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that once again man's ability to get used to even the worst situations is being materialized. You see, Mr President, the thing that really puzzles me, even in this speech, is to take note, to note, to consider how, starting with some commentators in the press - to arrive, alas, also at the distracted carelessness of this House at this time - we are getting used to this system of life, or if you prefer, of death. It's the most absurd thing that can happen, it's the political death of a country. It is the very death of institutions, at a time when one gets used to commemorating, as if it were a periodic, periodic rituality, these events; indeed, every time trying to add some topic because everything has already been said. Everything has already been said when it happened in Paris; everything has already been said about what happened in Brussels; Everything has already been said for what happened to Dhaka, for what happened in all circumstances. And we are still here today to commemorate and, after this commemoration, we will resume, as if nothing had happened, the work of Parliament, without even having the consideration of attributing the necessary centrality to this dramatic situation, which has lived not only from France but which belongs to us inwardly and intimately. Mr President, I would like to ask you as a representative of this institution: is it ever possible that in this Senate, in this Parliament, no attention has yet been paid to this issue with a session devoted exclusively to it? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Not a commemoration, but a session that devotes exclusivity and attention to the problem of terrorism, of Islamic fanaticism, to our foreign policy. We cannot forget that in these same hours in Turkey there is a cleansing that has as its matrix Islamic fundamentalism. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Pepe]] We cannot forget that what happened in Nice a few days ago is not the result of the action of an unbalanced person, but it carries with it all the weight of Islamic hatred and fanaticism. How can we still be superficial and not consider this situation in all its drama? You see, Mr President, I would have expected at least to see a very strong activity in these weeks of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Well, the Senate Foreign Affairs Commission will only meet on Thursday afternoon for a hearing of our representative in the European Union on Brexit. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] But what do we want to talk about? What commemoration are we having if we are not aware of the situation that is coming upon us? It has happened once again, and once again it will happen, because we are not conscious, you are not aware of what is being accessed, at the very moment when there is distraction from these issues, which - I repeat - cannot, by connivance or coexistence, be drunken to circumstances, because you cannot get used to this state of death. These people want to stop us from living. I do not share, Mr President, the opinion of Enrico Letta, reported in the newspaper a few days ago, that we must learn to turn fear into a resource, we must get used to living with this situation. Yes, Mr President, because the years of peace behind us have been an accident in the history and path of humanity. No, Mr President, we want those years of peace to continue even today, but peace, as was said in ancient times, must be defended, when necessary, even with the sword. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Malan and Zin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u15	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, my first point concerns once again the country which has been hit, namely France, at the centre of repeated attacks which have been unreasonable for a long time. I mean that these attacks, carried out with ferocious determination, have repeatedly exposed the side to a misunderstanding, that is to say to the idea that the terrorist plan is also a child of social tensions peculiar to that country. This consideration prevents us from seeing with proper lucidity the other aspect, the other side of the coin, that is that terrorism of Islamist matrix is an ideology with a carature that has all the characteristics of those ideologies that have gone as a cold wind of death our twentieth century: there is no difference between Nazism, fascism, communism and terrorism of Islamist matrix. [[Applause from Senator Bonfrisco]] This is the only consideration that can safeguard the possibility of a fruitful relationship between peoples, countries and religions, which otherwise should become a whole with a judgment that no longer finds adequate response in reality. On this invitation, too, the European Left, which has always been fundamental in the fight against terrors of various origins, to take a step forward, because only the consideration of the ideological significance of what happens can make us understand how a non-religious person, radicalized in a few days, has become an instrument of death in a blink of an eye. Actually we must make this reflection, because the ideologies of the twentieth century, those of Western origin, have taken hostage the name of the people and in the name of the people have consumed all kinds of massacres and massacres for many decades. This time you take the name of God hostage and with the same logic you make it become functional to your plan of power. If there is no adequate awareness on the part of our institutions and our countries, it will be impossible to be adequate in dealing with this disaster. However, the second point concerns Italy, because there are 20 Italians killed by ISIS since the beginning of the year and it is not possible that our Parliament will not find the way and the time to enter into the merit of a corresponding judgment [[Applause from the LN-Aut and CoR Groups]] What does it mean, in fact, that in our country we are safe if in Tunis, as in Nice, as in Paris, as in Dhaka many Italians are continuously killed and if the name of Italy constantly echoes behind the network of complicity that has made sure there were massacres in Belgium as in France? I believe that a Parliament worthy of this name must enter into the matter and that it should be able to propose appropriate solutions and resolutions to its Government so that such a difficult situation can be faced. The last point, Mr President, is that our chatter is less dignified than a silence and less strong than a prompt reaction. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] This chatter is undeserved by our country, it does not fully translate the concern that as legislators we should have for the lives off, especially those of the little ones, overwhelmed by a truck, but perhaps even once more by the stupidity of a certain policy. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL), FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u18	GAMBARO (AL-A). Mr President, 84 dead and more than 70 injured, all overwhelmed by the murderous ideology of a Franco-Tunisian jihadist driving a truck that is still struggling to understand how it got to the seafront in Nice. President Hollande, discouraged and afflicted by pain, almost unable to react, announces repeatedly that France is at war. The massacre in Nice last Thursday probably marked a point of no return in the recent history of the war that Islamic terrorism has declared to Western civilization, now from the attack on the Twin Towers onward. In Nice we found that it is not only the so-called objectives that are sensitive to being under check, i.e. stations, airports, power centers and representative monuments, but every place where it is easy to reach as many people as possible; where to leave an indelible mark, a blood stain that will be difficult to forget for as many decades. And no bombs, no special firearms equipment, were needed, but a heavy vehicle, a truck, was enough to complete a carnage, which perhaps we would never have expected, precisely because of the manner in which it was carried out. In the face of these acts, strong measures must be put in place to safeguard their citizens, their institutions and supranationals. There is no need to be security experts to understand that France and Belgium have not been particularly distinguished in this respect in recent times. On a day like July 14th for the French, the eyes of security had to be much more vigilant and alert. I ask myself, and I ask you, who cares for our lives is able to do so? Do you have all the elements, skills and means to save our lives and those of our children? That is the question to which someone, of duty and duty, must give a satisfactory answer as soon as possible. The observation by the parliamentary bodies of individuals or groups which are deemed to have been observed, as well as the monitoring of migratory flows or the strengthening of security measures in places considered potentially at risk, has proved to be insufficient, as far as necessary. In addition to all the more conventional measures, such as the further strengthening of international cooperation in the field of intelligence, we need a valuable and cultural revolution that surrounds all forms of fanaticism. We must promote, from the schools of obligation, an idea of integration and sharing common values that is more convincing. Children of all religions and races must learn to respect and share common secular principles in which to believe and see each other again. I believe that the first step towards the normalization of coexistence between Western and Arabs is to strengthen this secular and valuable vision of social problems. The promotion of shared initiatives on historical issues that see us united would be an important way to try to approach two worlds that at this moment seem to have very few points of closeness. The dramatic events in Nice call for all Western democracies and states of law to strengthen their international cohesion in order to stem the terrorist escalation. There is at stake the free world, threatened daily by terrorist fanaticism, to which, a fact is certain, we cannot bend in any way. What we have laboriously built in so many years of civil and legal battles, in a short time seems to crumble under the blows, the increasingly perfidious slits of the death-bearers who exhibit the black banner. In Europe, which has been at the heart of terrorist attacks in recent months, what better response than to demonstrate its cohesion and strongly reaffirm its values, so as to be the leader of all countries that oppose ISIS? After Brexit, the effects of which I fear will only be apparent in several months' time, I believe that the political unity of the whole of the Union is the strongest and most effective response that can be given to such a sneaky enemy. Only a concrete unity, an unprecedented international collaboration, a real communion of intent and a firm and decisive reaction from all European countries will be able to try to stem the action of those who, by forcing us into terror, want in fact to subvert our institutions, which are the very substance of democracy and civilization, and not only those of Europe. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u21	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the massacre in Nice reproposes and aggravates the fundamental questions that are now part of the political and cultural confrontation in Europe and in all the states affected by the attack on global terrorism. Firstly, we must avoid creating unrealistic expectations, such as the promise that the strategy of terror will soon be able to be defeated and further attacks avoided. It is important, in fact, to think about long- or medium-term policies that must be put in place as a joint response from the European Union and other global players, primarily the USA and Russia. This is the position that the Italian Government supported and which was reiterated yesterday at the parliamentary level at the meeting of the Government with the parliamentary groups of majority and opposition and at the European summit requested by France after the attack in Nice. We know how the attack of global terrorism has its own cultural identity. Bernard-Henri Lévy defined the phenomenon as: "non-contact influence through contagion and lightning suggestion." Radical extremism is its fundamental dimension and global communications networks have been used for the evolution of widespread and mass terrorism. Individual cells and subjects can be autonomous and not affiliated: they have radicalized via the web or are internal to the caliphate. We know how terrorists can use increasingly flexible techniques and resources and that they can also assume a lower level of organisation and, therefore, more difficult to prevent and identify. We are aware that these subjects have a common strategic data: our Western civilization; our culture and our way of life. We know that terrorists have decided to strike European civil communities in their everyday lives, places and habits, multiplying the possible objectives: our fellow citizens in Dhaka, the attacks in Paris and Nice in France. The strategy of terrorists is clear: with further attacks they want to lead the countries of the Union, in particular France, on the brink of a civil war, radicalising the population and the Islamic communities and pushing the population towards extreme right-wing positions. In order to achieve this goal, they must first destabilize moderate governments, create insecurity and thus promote the election of nationalist and far-right governments that promise to make order. The jihadist challenge is not just a consequence of multiculturalism or failed attempts at integration. Islamist terrorism calls into question the values of freedom and tolerance, fairness and equality of our rule of law, which for us is an indispensable achievement of civilization. I think, however, that tolerance also has a limit. We must strongly ask the Islamic communities of Europe for a role that is not so passive towards jihadism, if they want to live with us, because they too must defend common values with us. Finally, we know and reaffirm, together with the Government, that in the long term communication and culture are strategic factors in clarifying without reservations and without fears that tolerance towards Islamic intolerance and fanaticism is not acceptable. At the same time, we need to be capable of common supranational responses, primarily between European countries, but also involving Russia and the United States. Only in this way can we overcome the challenge of terrorist attacks and growing populism that puts to the test all our civil and economic achievements of the last centuries. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u24	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, unfortunately, within a few days two tragic and shocking political events took place on France first and Turkey then and, more generally, on the whole of Europe and also on our country. Italy, as has been mentioned, has also been directly affected by six identified victims. We would like to express the closeness and solidarity of our Group to the families of these victims. Italy has also been hit as a country exposed, like everyone else, to the risk that tragedies like this may occur also from us. The attack in Nice, due to its size and manner, largely still obscure, is a novelty, although predictable and unfortunately foreseen in the bloodthirsty framework of terrorism in Europe. For this reason, this attack has aroused widespread fear, even greater than the one generated by the previous attacks. It is quite understandable that this terrorism, which we might call DIY and which does not need particularly complex organisations, is considered even more fearsome than the other forms of terror. It really means that the danger can suddenly come from anyone and even the tenant next door can prove to be a deadly threat. It is of course clear to everyone that preventing such events is even more difficult than stopping the most structured terrorist groups through intelligence operations. Mr President, it really is pointless to hide that this widespread fear can lend itself to easy political exploitation and inflate the sails of xenophobia and the worst security instincts, spreading the illusion that, by this way, it is possible to guarantee greater security. We believe that this is the real scope of the challenge facing Europe today: to defeat terrorism and restore security to citizens, without sacrificing their culture and civilisation. It is one of those great historical challenges with which each generation has to deal sooner or later. On these epochal occasions there is always the temptation to take the streets seemingly easier, the quickest and most reassuring ones, but it is only an optical illusion. Taking that road would not only be ethically wrong, but would also mean going down exactly to the ground that terrorism wants to impose on us. On the other hand, we must put all security and prevention measures in place, as can of course only be done with a maximum level of integration and cooperation between intelligence services in all countries. We must have forces capable of intervening even more quickly than, unfortunately, has been done too many times in recent months. At the same time, however, we must know that we will not be able to lose for a moment the democratic values, freedoms and rights that we have known and built for all these years. We must combat and suppress the channels that lead to radicalisation and equip ourselves to counter jihadist propaganda where it exerts its deadly effects (so, also on the media), but - at the same time - we must understand why radicalisation has been determined and how to identify and disable it. In Turkey, a few hours after the massacre in Nice, we witnessed a failed coup d'état and, as has been effectively defined, a successful counter-golf. The effects of the latter are no different from those of a fully-fledged coup. How else can we define the thousands and thousands of arrests that are taking place throughout the country, the imprisonment of constitutional judges who had dared to oppose Erdogan, the attempt to use the alibi of terrorism to restore the death penalty, the prohibition of expatriation for civil servants and even - is it news of these hours - the arrest of professors and directors? This is a situation that is completely getting out of hand. From now on we will be struggling with an even less democratic Turkey than it was (and it was already a democracy rather than a dungeon). Here too, Mr President, there really is an easy temptation for Europe and Italy to escape, namely that of cynicism doomed to Realpolitik. We must use all possible peaceful means to defend the rights of Turkish citizens and, in this situation, we cannot really consider the entry into the European Union of a country that no longer guarantees the minimum level of real democracy. Moreover, the billions cannot even be given to what is now, in effect, a regime, by delegation to deal with the refugees and to manage their fate. It is also for these reasons that we believe that it is indeed a political and moral duty for the European Union to immediately suspend the cooperation agreement on immigration with Turkey. We believe that the Italian Government should do so very quickly. We take this opportunity, Mr President, not only to express our condolences for the innocent victims of the events taking place in this increasingly dramatic world, but also to recall once again that we have a duty, as a national Parliament, to make policy. And to make politics we think, for example, that Ministers should come to this House quickly, to discuss with us what are the most effective actions that our country can put in place. These are very hard times, these are times that obviously need an extraordinary commitment and, of course, as broad a unity as possible of the democratic and progressive forces of this country and of the entire continent. We want to do our part to the full, and for this reason we believe that this debate can be conducive to an important reflection not only of this Parliament, but of the whole of our country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and Mixed Groups and Senator Manconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u27	MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I will not be a diplomat. This kind of commemoration is only for parliamentary acts. The mourning of the fallen, the wounded and the great French people, already felt by other mourners, has already been expressed through the words of the President of the Republic and the President of the Council, to whom the Group of the People's Area joins firmly. This afternoon's fast-paced catwalk is re-proposing the positions of the political forces of all time. I hope that there can be a step forward, a leap forward, which should take place in a civil and democratic nation, between the intransigent criticism of oppositions, especially right-wing ones, on security and immigration and the defence of political correctness and the intensification of the surveillance action called for by those who support the government instead. I hope that the outrage at the massacre in Nice will not last as long as that in Dhaka. And then you have to find the right words, to understand what is happening from September 11, 2001 to today and which has a further origin in the Munich Olympics of September 5, 1972. Forty-four years in which the response of the Arab and Islamic peoples to alleged wrongs has not passed through confrontation, dialogue and diplomacy, but often through weapons, massacres, terror and in any case the heartbreaking death of innocent people. We must find the right words and the right ones, I believe that they coincide with the definition of the phenomenon that the Undersecretary gave to the Presidency of the Council Sandro Gozi: Islamic Nazism. Forty-four years during which ethnic groups and peoples have established themselves who, by virtue of their Islamism or the interpretation of Islamism, have committed unspeakable crimes and disobedience, from Nigeria to Somalia, Indonesia to the Philippines. Forty-four years in which many have thought that this type of terror was a passing phenomenon, that the principles of the French revolution, of the Enlightenment, of emancipation, of the fight against Nazism and fascism took over the barbaric terrorist and extremist. The West and Europe in particular hoped that the night would pass. On the other hand, the culture of hatred generated by jihadist thought, that is, by a radical interpretation of the verses of the Koran, not at all opposed by the Koranic schools, has been strengthened. The madrases in Italy are about a hundred and this interpretation is not given by me but by the vice president of the French Muslim communities. So the night doesn't pass and innocent blood adds to innocent blood. To say that Islam has nothing to do with it is a very serious mistake of political underestimating. To say that Islam must not be demonized is only a dialectic preposition because no one in the West, in Europe and in Italy has posed problems to this religious practice. Hoping that the so-called moderate areas of the Muslim world will take over is part of a suicidal policy. We have defeated the terrorism of the Red Brigades and the NARs because our society has isolated not ideas, which are always respectable, but the use of violence to impose them. That is not the case here. A substantial part of the Islamic world may perhaps not share the terrorist methods, but not the objective of combating the unfaithful who are such not only because they are crusaders but because they are bearers of values of democracy, secularism, equality, freedom and equality between genders. You can't just ask the law enforcement and secret services to deal with terrorism. Unitary, courageous, strict choices are needed and the President-in-Office of the Council was right to bring together the House and Senate Leaders yesterday. It is necessary to start from the isolation and contrast of those Islamic countries that forage terrorism, other than to cover the statues of the Capitol in order not to disturb the sensitivity of a Muslim politician who does not get upset, instead, when in his country stone the supposed adulterers, cut off the head with the schimitar to homosexuals and incarcerate and whip to blood those who defend civil rights. All this because in that country, in those countries, the precepts of the Koran are respected to the letter. The realism, I would say the cynicism of financial and economic affairs and the sale of arms can no longer be acceptable to democratic countries and therefore between Europe and the Sultanates, between the West and totalitarian, ruthless and bloody regimes. President. - I shall now conclude. Our task is to defend the security of Italians, the future of our children, but also our conquests of civilization. Among these, I believe that the most important is that of women's emancipation, which has broken the chains of tradition, ignorance and male submission. We have talked about everything in this House: from the protection of animals to GMOs, we have promoted committees of inquiry into the most varied issues and problems, but we have ignored the fact that in Italy there are tens, hundreds of thousands of women secreted, kept in ignorance and submissive. That's the problem. It is not a minor problem, it is the problem for Islam to become a religion of peace. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), LN-Aut and GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u30	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I regret that I have to make this commemoration this afternoon and that I have listened to the words of my previous colleagues because unfortunately they have managed to turn this into a moment of controversy and sterile debate today. Unfortunately you are turning victims into sacrificial victims, you are using people as if they had fallen for your homeland, that is, you are using them for your electoral purposes, for your election campaigns. That is unacceptable from my point of view. I say this because we of the 5 Star Movement, who are the last to come, should not be the ones to remind you how to do and what a commemoration is. I am sorry to have to read the names of the six Italians that none of you have spoken. You spoke of Islam, of attacks on our civilization. But what civilization? Our civilization as you profess? Why didn't any of you mention the names of our Italians? You have absolutely not talked about the families and the pain that is now accompanying these people: the families of Carla Gaveglio, Maria Grazia Ascoli, Gianna Muset, Angelo D'Agostino, Mario Casati, Nicolas Leslie. Our six compatriots have fallen in Nice because they are victims of liquid terrorism, which has as its main and sensitive objectives our cities. They have fallen for a fundamental reason: not for your regurgitations tending to racism; they have been victims and have fallen because they have entrusted their lives to us politicians, and this is a common sign that those fallen with so many others fallen in the events that daily happen not only in those places, but in Italy and all over the world. I believe that the right commemoration today should not be done for a mere waste of campaigning, as you are doing shamefully this afternoon; to defend and honor the memory of those people we should have a responsibility for our role. And this can be done simply in one way: considering the fact that those people should be honored, considering this moment as a point of no return. We must show that we have understood that from now on the Italian Government and Parliament, precisely to honor them and their families, will act in a completely different way, for example in our foreign policy, so not in a hypocritical way, selling arms with one hand and then tending to help those peoples with the other. None of you wondered: but the weapons used in the massacres you mentioned, from which countries do they come? Do they come from countries with which we do business? None of you ask. So let's stop this campaign. We should ask ourselves how much those victims and we have in common and we share a failed foreign policy. We must ask ourselves how much of what has happened is also attributable to our actions. This means being a serious, mature and responsible government and parliament. That is why we have asked the President of the Senate and the President of the House to convene immediately or to stimulate a communication from the Government in the Assembly, to reopen the parliamentary debate on these issues, because we believe it to be a fundamental step. For these reasons we do not in any way raise the barren controversy about the political vision of these facts, but we remain on the subject of the day. So the 5 Star Movement expresses a closeness to the families of the victims. With great condolences and with great firmness we say that the 5 Star Movement within Parliament is ready to start a new phase of debate and debate precisely to honour the victims and families of Nice. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u33	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats naturally expresses its condolences to the families affected by this umpteenth episode of terrorism. I am referring to the families of the French but also of the Italians present in Nice, who after several days have been laboriously identified, in the further anguish of their families who have waited for days, feeding the labile hope that their loved ones were not on the Promenade des Anglais. The tragedy therefore affects the French people, but also our nation, not only for our victims, but also because Nice, the city where Garibaldi was born, is a cross of stories, passions, civilizations and cultures that bind Italy and France intimately. To the French people and Ambassador Colonna, who is following our work, we renew our solidarity, thinking of that evening of July 14 that also in Rome, as usual, was celebrated at Palazzo Farnese with so much participation, not only of the Italian authorities but also of the Italian society and representatives of the French Government who had joined the ambassador. Listening to those words worried about what happened in Dacca and hearing the ambassador remember the Italian victims in a farthest part of the world and the difficult year that the international community lived and France suffered, with all that happened in Paris in the past months, none of us imagined, coming home, to learn late evening from television, as is now tragically the case, what had happened. And the next night a different story happens, far away, but then not too much, from this that we are commemorating today. The story of Turkey, which has left us even more disoriented and has made us realize, ladies and gentlemen, that we are experiencing a dramatic moment. It was the Holy Father, and not a partisan political authority, who said a few months ago that we are experiencing a third world war that is being fought apart. Unfortunately, the affirmation of the Holy Father, a man of peace and solidarity, perhaps even more than his predecessors, has called to realism all of us. It is a war that is fought with the instability of Turkey, with what happens in North Africa, with what happened in Nice or Paris months ago and that we too have suffered, as an Italian community, in Dacca; not to mention other scenarios even more shaken by events that we can only call of war nature. We are therefore faced with a tragedy that can be renewed at any time, also given the circumstances of the Nice affair, with the truck carrying ice cream (obviously non-existent) to be delivered and, perhaps, also with the issue of the security of France, just out of the European football team, an appointment that we watched not only for sport but also for the concern that terrorism could seize that occasion also of popular celebration and people gathered, not only in the cities of France but throughout Europe in front of a screen. Well, perhaps this intervention that evening wanted to recall us, with a realism that, unfortunately, we must now knowingly feed all of us, to the fact that terrorism can strike anywhere and anyhow. And even Italy must not be considered immune. I do not want here to cause any controversy about the fact that yesterday the Government announced that an operation was underway in Italy on people connected to the terrorist who struck in Nice and that then there was even a controversy between the national anti-mafia prosecutor, who complained that she had not been informed, and the Ministry of the Interior, who today said that he had given this information at an authoritative institutional meeting held yesterday morning and that perhaps it was Bari's prosecutor who had to inform. In Italy it is also possible to argue about these procedural aspects. Mr President, in conclusion, we believe that, in addition to commemorating and remembering the French and Italian victims, we must not underestimate what is happening. Last night in Germany another lone wolf, a 17-year-old Afghan, hit on a train. The person who struck in Nice was perhaps another lone wolf, but both are not alien to the radicalization of Islamic fundamentalism. The ISIS proclaims them its own soldiers, and it is therefore useless to go and do the analysis of the major or minor connection. Because there is a connection: that of an ideological fanaticism, of a great caliphate who wants to expand. Then the Italian Government must not only increase security measures. Yesterday Minister Alfano proposed that the members of the Forces of the Order turn with the gun in their pockets even out of service. Then maybe we approve a torture law, and if they react, we send them to jail. I think it's a little confusing. Just as in the control action, I remember Salah, the terrorist who was now incarcerated in France and who had struck at the Bataclan, had come to Bari or Brindisi, I don't remember in detail, to embark and then go to Greece and Syria. We're not immune to everything that's happening. We need exceptional laws to be agreed globally. Appropriate control measures are needed. Perhaps we must also change our habits of life, as we changed them in the dramatic seasons of internal terrorism in Italy, taking care of them and controls that did not once exist. But to underestimate the ideological, perversely cultural scope of this offensive is a great mistake. Immigration is not directly linked to terrorism. But, gentlemen of the government, do you think that by bringing in millions of people every day with Operation EUNAVFOR Med, European security is being increased? Do you think that one can underestimate what happened in Libya, which then expanded throughout Africa, from Boko Haram to many other outbreaks, and sometimes one should not face it even with the determination of the international community, of a great international coalition that we wanted and that knows how to decide when to use the lever of force and when the weapon of dialogue? But the attack on our civilization, our culture and our coexistence is there. And also the fact that we have integrated people who have found work and welcome in our states, as happens in Italy and happened also in France, well, sometimes it has not prevented them from springing from the perverse minds of some of them this fanaticism and this preaching. We do not fear accusations of racism, and we believe that the constitutional values of Italy and France should be safeguarded, but lowering our guard and not realizing that we are in a war - as I repeat, even the most peaceful man in the world who is the Pope - would be a dramatic mistake. We want this war to win the values of freedom, equality of peoples and our cultural traditions, those of France and Italy, today united by this new dramatic event. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u36	Martini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent times we have had many opportunities in this House to express our sympathy and solidarity. This time we feel that the blow was stronger, deeper. Because of the heinous dynamics of the attack or because many children are among the innocent victims. The images really break the heart, On behalf of the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party we then repeat with more force, with the determination that comes from a deeper and furious pain of all time, our condemnation and our closeness to the relatives of the victims, to the city of Nice, to the French people. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi]] The massacre is of such barbarity that it leads, at least me, to place in the background the time of political and strategic analyses and evaluations. It will certainly be necessary to do them, and well, in proper locations and moments. I hope that everyone will participate actively, even those who have so far escaped the common commitment. But in the meantime, we must put ourselves fully on the side of the victims. The words that most frequently define the massacre of Nice are horror, cruelty and absurdity. We find them in the letter sent by all the Heads of the Senate to the ambassador of France in Rome, which I greet with great respect: just and commendable initiative. These terrible words cannot resonate only for a few days and then be replaced by contrasts on how to deal with terrorism. They must shake our moral conscience and inspire our actions. So I will not dwell on the comments or disputes that are already under way. I shall confine myself to a few brief notes, which are preliminary to the debate we are going to have. The first is that the cultural and existential abyss in which terrorism wants to lead us is the exact opposite of the image of life and sociality that expressed the many present in Nice on 14 July. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A humanism of values, participation and coexistence (even with all its contradictions) has opposed the barbarity of hatred and annihilation of those who have different ideas and beliefs. It is right to call the alarm for this shocking drift. Violence and terror can be overcome, and I think we will win them, with firmness and intelligence. But the social and cultural price will be heavy and lasting, in terms of the backwardness of the possibilities and quality of dialogue, cultural exchange and human cooperation. The trap of embarrassment is before us, wide open and tempting. I believe that in the name of those who died in Nice we must avoid falling. The second consideration: a special thought goes to the French people, its institutions, its culture and history. Jihadist terrorism has struck that country several times, trying to scare off the universal message that we all recognize in the motto egalité, liberté, fraternité. To feel close to France means, however, to understand its terrible drama: the risk, that is, of a real civil war, that fires cities and suburbs. If it were to be so - we know that - it will not stop at France. We could all be involved. That is why we must help the French to win the monster of intolerance and violence. Finally, from Nice comes the call to a high vision, mature and aware of politics. Compared to the gravity of the moment it affects the modesty and inadequacy of many of the battles or skirmishes of our home. In the attack on Europe there is also a challenge to its weakened political culture, to the growing difficulties of dealing with new and disruptive phenomena. We must seriously work, on all political sides, without exception, for a real leap in our political culture. The same repetitive discussion about the faults of goodness or muscularism appears already worn out and sprung up. There is much more at stake now, far beyond the banality of small party calculations. I shall conclude, Mr President. To the victims of Nice and all the massacres we owe a cultural and moral commitment, not to let ourselves be dragged into the gorgo of impotence and irrelevance, out of omission or inability to understand, think and act in a new way. That means getting on the side of the victims for me. From there we start to win the challenge. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u37	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u38	Mr President, we agree with your words, which we share in a sincere spirit, and of course we are close to the families of the Italian victims. We, however, do not distinguish between Italian deaths, French deaths, American deaths, Armenian deaths, Russian deaths, Ukrainian deaths. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Senators Stefano and Uras]] They are all innocent victims, and we would like to quote all their names. Madam Ambassador, I renew the sentiments of deep closeness and friendship already transmitted to the French people by the President of the Republic. France was hit, but all of us were hit. It is not, Madam Ambassador, a tweet, but the awareness that to be scarred is anyone who refers to the civil and inclusive values of the French Revolution. It is not by chance that in your country you are struck more; you are struck more where the deepest values have shaped the modern world, and integration is not a dishonor, it is really a product of those values. The fear that risks entering us, that is already in us, has the objective, precisely, to strike those values and is the real objective of terrorists, to trigger the clash between civilizations; but the theme is not the clash between civilizations, with a use, by terrorism, fanatic, instrumental of religions. We can't do that. Our freedom cannot be contained in barbed wire. Therefore, integration and legality must walk together without schizophrenia: we ask the Turkish Government and we must practice it. Solidarity and the construction of Europe must be the first answers; not the clash between religions, but interreligious dialogue is the greatest contribution to combat the fundamentalism of terror: exemplary in this sense is the contribution to peace that comes from the words constantly addressed in this way by the Holy Father. Not the infrastate walls, but the European border is the way to fight terrorism. More Europe therefore and no less Europe: the Europe of values and the Europe of intelligence, the Europe of trade and the Europe of controls. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] To this we are firmly anchored beyond all instrumentality and I think that the instrumental polemics must leave the field to the awareness of the moment in which we are and the answers that we are called to give together. To this end I imagine that the session of the Foreign Committees of the House and Senate will also be dedicated, already scheduled for next week on Tuesday, and I hope that on that occasion Parliament and Government together will be able to offer the best of democratic cultures. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and AL-A groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u39	The memorial of the massacre in Nice is over. We greet the ambassador of France.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u42	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I also take the floor on the order of business following today's speeches by the various parliamentary groups. I have heard important words: there has been talk of freedom, our society and our civilization. Precisely because these words are important, the debate took place according to the various nuances of each parliamentary group, according to what each of us represents, taking into account the idea that every Italian citizen has of what has happened and what is happening. That is precisely why I would like to point out that these important words (freedom and civilisation) are guaranteed daily by men and women who allow us to live our daily lives: I am referring, Mr President, to men and women of the Forces of Order. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Mr President, we are at an important, dramatic moment in history when French and Italian citizens have been killed, when incidents not only occur in Nice: I am also thinking of what is happening in Turkey and Germany a few days ago, where a man attacked people by hand on a train (I remember that the same thing happened in Italy), what happened in Avignon, what is happening and what happened a few hours ago in France, where a Moroccan attacked a mother with three girls, seriously hurting one of them. I could go on: in Trento the Forces of Order have been attacked; there is the denunciation - arrived these days - according to which in 2015 more than 1,000 policemen were attacked in the exercise of their duties and just today the representatives of the Forces of Order, the military and the carabinieri tell us that they do not have the means to defend themselves and to be able to protect the security of the citizens. Mr President, we know that, theoretically, we should come over to examine the draft law on torture, as we did last week. You know very well what the position of the North League is; you know very well that in my opinion this crime is an outrage against the law enforcement and police forces that daily guarantee our security at the expense of their lives. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The credibility of law enforcement agents is questioned, because the aforementioned bill does not punish the crime of torture, but limits the work of law enforcement. We have also heard this in this House: at last the police will no longer be able to do what they want. Our law enforcement and police forces (Mr President, you know this better than I do) are recognized as among the best in the world, so in our opinion they are limited and humiliated in this way and at this moment limits and humiliates our civilization and our society. Mr President, today, as theoretically we should vote (I hope not), public officials would risk less with a crime of omission of legal acts than with the crime of torture. It would, therefore, actually risk someone looking somewhere else. The police unions call for the withdrawal of this measure; the police chief criticized it; Minister Alfano, for once, with an act of dignity - one, finally: an act of dignity in his period as Minister of the Interior - said that perhaps this measure is not as good as it is. But you will go to the House to change it, Mr President. But if there is the prefect bicameralism - I ask you wise men of the Constitution - why not modify it already here, showing that the Senate is able to work? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] [[Comments of Senator Cardinals]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u43	I remind you that you are intervening on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u44	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, with regard to the order of business, the League Group calls for the suspension of the examination of the measure and, if necessary, for its return to the Commission. We call for a decision to be taken in this House to suspend the examination of the measure or, if necessary, for the Conference of Leaders to be convened to be able to speak about it quietly, and to return to the Chamber, having jointly decided to suspend its examination definitively. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u47	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to refer to what President Centinario has said, remembering how much has been tormented the path of this measure, how much critical it has highlighted also within the groups that have discussed this issue. The new fact with regard to the debate that took place this week is first and foremost the adoption of a problem by the Minister of the Interior in an institutional forum: we were at Palazzo Chigi, where the problem was highlighted and where security was discussed. It has been specifically convened that committee, which does not have its own precise regulations, but which is, in fact, the symbolic representation of the country's unity with respect to an emergency, in this case, of terrorism and security for the country itself. In view of what we at Forza Italia have said about this measure, the Minister for the Interior has noted the problematic nature of some parts of the text; he has done so in that forum and, subsequently, in public. I have the impression that probably, in order to arrive at the best possible conclusion, also from the point of view of the crime of torture (on which we would like to discuss, safeguarding the functionality and efficiency of the forces of public order), I think it is appropriate - and I add to the request - to convene the Conference of Leaders to check whether the debate on this subject is worth continuing. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u50	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I think that Mr Centinario's request is very timely. In fact, beyond the merit of the bill, which offers important reflections, as much as those on the protection of our police forces, it is clear to everyone that an event has taken place that, even more so, puts to the attention of all of us the problem of whether, within that bill, given the theme of torture (which has a whole other declension), we have performed the duty of legislators - with particular regard to a change that has intervened during the debate of the Assembly - in the spirit that the time today demands of us. That is why my request, in addition to that of my colleague Mr Centinario, Mr President, is that that text should return to that Commission where, on the other hand, good work had been done and a point of mediation had been reached between the different needs, which must be found; and the Senate did this good work. What then intervened in this House to amend that text? There was a fact that we all considered wrong. As demonstrated by the serious and vibrant protests of the police and security forces, that text betrayed itself; it betrayed the objective that the Commission and Parliament had set themselves against the text received from the House. It has become, instead, a text that seems all oriented to the humiliation of the police and security forces. I believe, on behalf of my group and many other colleagues, that this was certainly not the direction of this House and that a mistake was made that day. If that mistake was made that day, I ask you, Mr President, to ensure that this House has to remedy it; you can do it as correctly as possible by returning to the Commission to review and re-evaluate all the texts of this draft law. I therefore welcome Mr Centinario's proposal, but I would ask you to do more. There is no hiding behind the fact that today's Conference of Leaders - which I am sure you will be calling on us right now - will send back to who knows when and where the examination of the measure, because this is a convenient alibi for those who have committed and done serious damage to the police forces and hopes to make it forget to all of us. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] Instead, we must not forget it, but remedy it through the role of responsible legislators. At a juncture like this we are required to be first and foremost protagonists of our mission, that is to represent the citizens and to legislate in their interest, and in the interests of the Italian citizens respect for the police and security forces can never be called into question. When events occur for which each individual's personal responsibilities are called into question, the response of the law and of all of us must be clear and firm, against all abuse. This does not mean, with the shortcut used by the Democratic Party and by those who proposed that amendment, that we are calling into question so much the role, honesty, honour and pride of our police and security forces that we are all here to defend. Mr President, you have been a man of law and you know that there is no rampant torture in our country; there is, however, widespread distrust of Italian citizens also with regard to the judicial order, which should confirm and support the effort that police forces make every day; instead, sometimes those same forces have the impression of working on a canvas of Penelope: they do it and someone else dissolves it. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u51	Since I have received several requests for intervention from the Heads of Groups, I suggest that this debate be transferred to the Conference of Leaders, which I immediately convene. I therefore suspend the work, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 5.54 p.m. and resumed at 7.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u52	The Conference of Leaders decided to postpone the examination of the draft law on the introduction of the torture crime in order to further deepen the text. This evening, after the decisions on the schedule of proceedings, the Assembly will proceed to the resolution on the constitution in court of the Senate in a conflict of attribution. During tomorrow's afternoon sitting, the documents drawn up by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities will be discussed and the examination of the draft law of the European delegation will begin. In the afternoon sitting, beginning at 4 p.m., the Senate's accounts and internal accounts will be examined. The debate will be closed by tomorrow evening. Agendas will have to be submitted by 11 a.m. tomorrow. At the afternoon sitting on Thursday 21 July, the debate on the European delegation law will continue, hopefully until its conclusion. In the afternoon session of Tuesday, July 26 will be placed on the agenda the decree-law on the sale of the ILVA of Taranto. In the course of the next week the Conference of the Leaders will be convened again, to define the order, without prejudice to the priority of the decree-laws coming from the House, of the other topics previewed from the calendar, also in relation to the intense activities of the Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u55	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the proposal that you, on behalf of the vast majority of the Conference of Leaders, have put forward must be defined as it is. The proposal is not to postpone the examination of the draft law on torture. In fact, it is a kind of proposal to expel, on a date to be allocated, the draft law on torture. Mr President, we consider the decision taken and the proposal put forward for the following explanatory statement to be absolutely serious. I regret - and I repeat this here - that, after the speeches at which the meeting of the Conference of Leaders was requested, you did not allow me, like others, to speak here, before everyone, on this matter. I find it incredibly shameful that, after the commemoration of the victims of Nice, those deaths were used instrumentally to carry out the operation, which has long been sought, of blocking the bill on torture. And this happens with reasons which we had - in my view - already on the substance of last week, punctually and in an uncontested way. There is a representation of that bill, and also of the decision taken by this House - and therefore by a vote - to expunge the word "reiterate" as an attack on the Forces of Order. And you know perfectly well, as everyone knows, that this is not a specific crime of law enforcement. We have explained infinite times that in the text of the House the term "reiterate" was obviously not there. I find it really incredible, from a political point of view, the choice that is made - we have to tell the truth - to wait and suspend. And I ask: to suspend for another twenty-four years? In this country we have been waiting for twenty-four years for the crime of torture to finally be included in our legal system. Then we fill our mouths with the saying that terrorists must not have won it on our democratic principles and on Parliament's activities, when we finally use that instrument to prevent our country from taking a step forward from the point of view of civilization and respect for citizens and - let me say this - the Forces of Order, which are composed for most decent people, who know perfectly well that regulating this matter gives more strength to democracy and to themselves. I also say to Senator Zanda that I am very sorry that he has given in to the idea of suspension, because this too, Mr Zanda, is a failure in relation to the instrumentality and tone that we have heard in this House. The Government has not found a word, it has said absolutely nothing and has left everything to the comments and indications of the Minister of the Interior, that yesterday was allowed to intervene on this measure, indicating already the way, in fact, of the sinking. I think all this is absolutely very serious, because it is interfering with parliamentary activity and this - I repeat - is a surrender to a shameful exploitation, all the more so since it took place after the commemoration of the dead and the victims of Nice. I think it's really amazing. That is why, Mr President, my proposal is very clear and is to continue with the examination of the measure. You know perfectly well that this bill is suspended in limbo, because there is no return to the Commission and for our Rules of Procedure - you know perfectly well - you will not be able to intervene to change what has already been voted on by this House, that is to say the amendment that deletes the word'reiterate'. Therefore, suspension - it has to be made clear - means once again, in a shameful way, that this House is perhaps oblivioning this bill for the umpteenth time. I find this all the more incredible the more we should strengthen all the instruments of democracy, democratic rights and freedoms in this country, in order to be stronger in the fight against terrorism and not to use it to abdicate to our duty. What do we have to say? What did they win? Because that means making sure they can win and that we won't allow it. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u58	MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, as I did at the meeting of the group leaders, I repeat my support for the timetable you have presented by my group. However, I would like to focus on the torture measure, and I would briefly like to remain on the subject of that measure to make it clear that there is absolutely no link in our Group's intentions between this announced suspension and the events in Nice that we discussed and addressed at the beginning of this afternoon's sitting. Several interesting and important issues have been raised on this measure. VOLPI (LN-Aut). You wanted the quota until two days ago! MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). This measure - as has already been said - has been dragging on for over twenty years. The issues raised were all aimed at distinguishing torture from other types of crime that have already been challenged, even in the absence of the torture offence. In particular, the use of plurality in terms of violence and threats has meant for our Group to get the necessary distinction, because the plural means more violence, more threats and for us therefore incorporates the "reiterate". In this regard, an objection has been made that the elimination of the "reiterate" may give rise to the confusion that was intended to be eliminated. We think that the use of the plural is sufficient in itself, but precisely this conviction has led us to ask for further reflection in the headquarters of the Leaders on a measure that has been in question for a long time. A suspension, not a dead track; a suspension that is dynamic, that can bear fruit and that aims to achieve a broad convergence of the parliamentary forces in this House. We, therefore, agree on the extreme importance and delicacy of this bill, that the Forces of Order should be protected and defended when they defend our rule of law, when they sacrifice themselves in order to enforce the laws. As I said, it was we who argued that the possibility of further reflection was given, therefore a short - but not final - suspension of the draft law. With this we would like to eliminate any exploitation, any shadow, any suspicion, because we believe that this measure deserves the consent of the whole House. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u61	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I rise to confirm the approval of the timetable and to add, in response to Senator De Petris' speech, that we will really do everything possible to ensure that the torture measure returns to the Senate to be approved before the summer holidays begin. I repeat what I said. Italy has a very high debt to its citizens, to the Forces of order and to the international community for a delay that now exceeds the three legislatures. This is something we do not want to abandon. We have accepted - I must say not willingly - the suspension, because we believe that two essential elements must be safeguarded in every way: firstly, we must have the certainty of a majority approving the measure; then, we want this majority to be very broad. A short time ago, at the Conference of the Leaders, I appealed to all the Leaders to find this majority. I believe that space exists and that there is the possibility of a majority on the measure, which takes account of the whole debate. I think, however, it is also time - let me say this - to stop the argument that the torture measure is directed at the police. It's not like that, as you know. It is a measure that concerns anyone; it is a rule applied to any citizen who should commit the crime that has been hypothesized and defined by Article 1 of the text. We must guarantee to our country that the bill will be passed within the space of time included before the summer holidays. Mr President, this is a commitment that I want to make and that I intend to respect by working in every way to ensure that this agreement between the political forces and between the parliamentary groups is achieved in time. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u64	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, first of all I would like to make the request to continue tomorrow morning with the examination of the draft law on the introduction of the torture offence and to express my total dissension at the things I am listening to in this House. I consider it unheard of gravity that you allowed, a few minutes ago, not to have the groups opposed to the convening of the Conference of Leaders to respond. To those who have listened to the debate in this House, to the many democratic citizens of this country, who care about democracy and the civilization of its laws, it seemed completely unbearable - and I want to promote it - to have approached in this Assembly a few minutes ago the idea that, as there is a dramatic world situation, with terrorist attacks and unacceptable bloodthirsty situations, Parliament should put a tombstone on a law that is a due act. To democratic people like me and like many others - I repeat very clearly - this seemed unacceptable. Mr President, the law on the introduction of the crime of torture in our country is a due act and it is of unheard of gravity that this national Parliament for so many years has failed to comply with what was an international obligation, since in all other countries of the world, I repeat all, instead this crime exists. It is also of unheard of gravity that such a vulgar and instrumental use should have been made of something that should have united this Parliament and this country, its democratic and progressive forces. We consider it completely unacceptable that the dramatic international situation should be used to put this measure in the background, and we consider it even more unacceptable today. President Zanda, I want to tell you with great clarity: today is July 19, 2016 and tomorrow will be July 20, 2016, i.e. it will be the fifteenth anniversary of the events of Genoa on July 19, 20 and 21, 2001 [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL Groups]] and there is a whole world outside this House that is waiting for justice for what happened in Genoa in 2001. Not revenge, justice! Mr President, I am very sorry to say to the PdL but also to the PD that they have missed an extraordinary opportunity. For me who was there in Genoa 2001 and who still have that indelible wound on me, today's affair and this postponement of the introduction of the crime of torture in the Italian legal system is really something unprecedented, much more serious than many other measures, even wrong, that have been before this Parliament, because it marks a political, cultural, moral surrender. This House really has rendered this country a terrible service today. As a Mixed-SI-SEL Group, we take the most total distance from what will soon be decided. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u67	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, Api, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, we did not need the facts of Nice to support a proposal of common sense, that is, to take a pause for reflection and deepening on this measure. Mr President, Parliament must not be conditioned by external facts, but it cannot be in an eburnian tower where the echoes of what is happening outside do not arrive and in these days I have the impression that two things have happened which in some way strengthen the need for further reflection. The first is that the police unions, of which they had doubted they had a uniform position, have confirmed it instead and have done so manifesting in a public way and this, Senator Zanda, must be taken into account independently - then I will say something about this - from the subjects to whom the law is addressed. If the Forces of Order feel a problem, this must be recorded and become a political fact that deserves an answer. Secondly, I read an interview with the Minister of the Interior in which it is assumed that the Forces of Order will remain armed even outside their working hours. It is clear that such a measure, if it were to be merely hypothesized, would deserve further consideration. [[Applause from Senator Volpi]] ; above all, however, it deserves that the boundary between what is lawful and what is not is clearly fixed. That, Mr President, is the point on which our perplexity is strong and in some way that is the point that calls for further consideration. We could say that the problem of recurrence is of superstructure; there is a structure that, on the other hand, must be taken into account. This measure fails to set the limit between the abuse of the legitimate use of force and torture. For this reason, Senator Zanda, our doubts refer above all to the relationship that the Forces of Order have with this provision. It is clear that the crime speaks to everyone and not only to the Forces of the Order, but only to the Forces of the Order there is this specific problem: where does the border pass between the abuse of a legitimate use of force - which is not torture - and the crime of torture? None of us doubt that the crime of torture has the possibility of being taken into account and being introduced. From this point of view, it is worth the proposal made by Senator Giovanardi, if you like, in an exemplary way: let us take the text of the New York Convention and make it become law. This is to say that no one has an opposition to the introduction of this crime in general; but the text that has been handed over to us fails to give guarantees to the Forces of Order. Mr D'Ascola will have to excuse me, but these guarantees cannot be sought only at a procedural stage, because this may appear too late in relation to the upheaval that a specific accusation can bring in the life of an honest servant of the State, who does not know and fails to grasp the point of discrimination. We therefore welcome the decision of the Conference of Leaders, but we would like it not to be hypocritical. We would like this suspension to be linked to the political will for a serious deepening and a guaranteeing measure towards the servants of the State, which can clarify them - and therefore also to us - where the border between what is lawful and what is not lawful and between what is not lawful and what is torture; because not everything that is not lawful can be called torture. These are the serious and structural questions that remain with this measure and to which we are asking for an answer. Therefore, either the suspension serves this or it serves to spend the night and place the measure under consideration in a better media context, but in this case we would not do a good service to the reputation of this House and to our role as legislators. [[Applause from the GAL groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL) and CoR and Senators Bignami and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u70	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, dear colleague De Cristofaro, I would first like to point out that in 2001 we were on the side of the Genoese honests, who did not go to the demonstrations with their helmets and ski masks. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups. Comments from the Mixed-SI-SEL and PD Groups.]] We were on the side of the Genoese and the honest citizens and on the side of the Forces of Order! De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Shame! Shut up! They killed people! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). We were on their side in 2001 and we're on their side today. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups. Comments from PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups.]] So let's send back some offensive statements to the sender. We shall do everything possible, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that this measure remains on the agenda. We have done everything we have done today, we have done everything at the Conference of Leaders and we will do everything we can to ensure that this measure is not dealt with or dealt with as late as possible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This measure is an affront to the police. Go and listen to your speeches on the measure. You will hear your colleague say that this way the police will no longer be able to do what they want. Go and hear what you said. Don't take your words back by saying you're on the side of law enforcement. Singing paper.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u71	Senator Centinario, what is the possible proposal to change the calendar? Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). President, the usual thinkers on the other side accuse me of being a jackal. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. No! No! No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, no choirs. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). It is not my fault that those you call resources commit certain crimes. It is not my fault that what we all know happened in Nice a few days ago; it is not my fault that acts of violence happen every day in Italy. Consequently, it is not my fault that, after the item on the agenda has been discussed today, I have been asked to suspend the measure. Some of you called me a jackal. It's an accusation I'm referring to the sender. President, do you know that the day after the events in Nice a very high Minister of the Italian Republic in Molise said that those who vote yes to the autumn referendum do so for greater security given what has happened? Do you know what the Ministers of the Italian Republic are going to say after the tragedy in Nice? Senator Centinario is not a jackal; the people sitting there, at the benches of the government, who go around saying certain things.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u72	[[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u73	Senator, I'm calling you back to the subject in question. If we are in a debate on the order of business, then stick to the subject. We are on the timetable, so I would ask you to make proposals to change the timetable. I thank you for your adjuvandum speeches, but we are on this point and the time has come. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). We agree that this measure should be suspended and that it should remain in line with the timetable as long as possible. Let us hope that it will no longer be brought back to this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u75	I would ask those who speak to stick to the subject of the debate. We need to approve changes to the timetable. I thank you for your adjuvandum speeches. If so, let them be brief. You have the right to do so. FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, we agree with the proposed timetable for the suspension of the examination of the torture measure and its postponement to the timetable for a time to ensure that this measure is also successful. I say to Senator De Cristofaro and Senator Centinario that approving this measure, which has been awaited for over twenty-four years, in this climate of contrast certainly does not honour this Parliament. The measure will have to be calibrated in order to ensure the necessary protection of citizens with the regulatory coverage of the necessary operations of the guardians of the order. The mediation intervention entrusted to the leaders of the major parties in this Senate is aimed at obtaining this calibration. The measure must come out of this House after having cut the umbilical cord with those who have generated it in such a way that they can live of autonomous life, without interventions of doctrine and jurisprudence that go to put patches where we have left empty. This is our duty as legislators: to ensure that the measure is dismissed in a clear manner. Senator Zanda, do not insist with that plural comparable to the elimination of the term "reiterate". Let us move forward, overcome the obstacle and try to find a formula that is the clearest and most correct to identify the criminal figure that we intend to introduce into the order. Let us all do this together, because such a measure requires unanimity in the House. It is not possible that on such a delicate subject the tones will become more intense, as has happened so far. I hope that the measure will be dismissed and it is for this reason that we have agreed to suspend the examination of the measure and to put it in line with the work. However, I must remind Senator Zanda that his proposal was shared by us because he himself stated that he would take action to reach agreement with the other political forces so that the measure could be adopted unanimously. We are ready to make our contribution, including technical, and to work in this direction, because - I repeat - we believe that the measure in question must be fired by the Senate unanimously. In conclusion, Mr President, my Group is in favour of maintaining the new timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u76	Colleagues, I have already recorded the request of five senators who intend to intervene. The deadline for today's sitting is 8 p.m. and the proposed changes to the timetable must be voted on by that time. I would therefore ask Members to speak in order to explain the proposed amendment for no more than two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u79	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I have listened to the Presidents of the right-wing groups distractingly to the problem of suspending the examination of a measure whose content should be natural. In Italy, a citizen under the custody of the Forces of Order should be safer than at home. Frankly, I feel like defending the Forces of Order from the center-right approach, which paints them as if they were eager to do what they seem to do. Of the many cops I know, there isn't one who wants to be able to do what he wants with the people he has in custody. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This type of approach is dishonorable towards the Forces of Order and Italy. Italy has been waiting for thirty-two years, not twenty-four years, to approve this measure. In the past few days, you've done a hallucinating obstruction. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] I am referring to my colleagues in the Democratic Party: you have heard from the voice of Senator Centinario what their intention is. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Admit it! Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). The intention is not to think a little bit about it, but to refer this measure back to the Greek calends. Do you actually want this? Mr President, for these reasons, I would ask you to keep the old timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u81	You have the right to do so. Please stick to the respect of the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u82	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Of course, Mr. President. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. No! No! No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, be quiet. Anyone may intervene within two minutes. Please, Senator Giovanardi. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I believe that there are three objectives shared by the whole House. One objective is to guarantee citizens, their lives, their security and their assets. The second objective is to protect the law enforcement forces when they have an obligation to intervene, even risking their lives, in order to protect citizens. The third objective is also to guarantee criminals and criminals of any kind whose rights must not be trampled on. I think we all agree on that. But we cannot confuse the dole with guilt. Unfortunately, all the cases mentioned in the debate confuse the two cases. It confuses the case of a policeman or a policeman who, out of negligence or imprudence, makes a mistake with the case of Giulio Regeni, which is a whole other thing. The ambiguity of this text is due to the fact that it confuses guilt with dole. Even if you arrest one of the 'ndrangheta, a mobster or a violent, you may be subjected to a complaint for a manslaughter and even the threat becomes torture [[Comments of Senator Lo Giudice]] , triggering a mechanism of non-protection even against those who, by doing their duty, can make a mistake. My proposal, Mr President, since the three objectives are shared by all, is to return to the Commission and settle this rule exactly as the New York Convention asks us to do. Read the New York Convention and see what torture means there. I fully agree with the New York Convention, but it describes torture in a totally different way than we describe it. Therefore, a moment of reflection in the Commission can allow us to achieve, all together, the protection of these three important objectives.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u85	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I will not abuse the time available to me, even though my speech is the only one of the Group. I come back to the proposal that I made at the Conference of the Leaders and that seems to me the most respectful of the role of this Parliament and the Commission, which - just to remember how things went - had hesitated a text that gathered the greatest consensus of the representation of this Parliament. Then we wanted to change that text, with an amendment proposed by the 5 Star Movement Group, on which the Democratic Party felt it could converge. The amendment we are debating has changed the understanding that was reached in the Commission. I would like to add something to the reflections of the speeches that preceded me, starting with that of Senator Falanga, who try not to make us resign to a climate that I do not think interprets the vast majority of this House, divided into a fan store that is not there. We are all interested in safeguarding the great role of our police and security forces, but we are also interested in hesitating a law against which, as everyone recognizes, our country is very late (so it must be able to do so). And it must be remembered that this crime is not attributable in the first instance to our police and security forces; Mr Quagliariello has already said it well before and I do not repeat myself. We need to make provision for the crime of torture in our code, but none of us can think of it as applicable to the police and security forces. However, if so, there are already the tools for personal responsibility to respond to the crime they commit. If there is, as I think, a need for a peaceful debate on this issue, the text must return to the Commission, because only the Commission has the capacity, the competences and - let me remind you, Mr President - the role to do this work. I do not think that the Group Leaders do, Mr President; the Group Leaders have another function. In this case, please do not expel the Commission from its role, because you are opening and creating a very dangerous precedent. We must be able to return to the Commission, where all the groups will be able to find that unity and synthesis which they had already found. It is the joke of this House that needs to be corrected. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u88	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I have listened to all the speeches very carefully, starting with that of President Zanda, and I must say that, thirty years later, in this House, there is still a great desire to cover up this measure, and I am very sorry about that. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I can also show you why I make this statement; with great conviction and regret, of course, but also with the conviction of those who can prove it. Many, almost all the interventions that have taken place have focused on the elimination of the term "reiterate". On the substance, the reflection made when we removed this term (I was the first signatory to the amendment which called for its elimination) was the following: how can it be claimed that, in order to be tortured, violence must always be expressed equal to itself and at different times? That was the doubt, but it was not mine or of the 5 Star Movement, it was a doubt of the whole Commission and of the whole House. It is in the minutes of Parliament, President, that even with 231 votes in favour of 234 votes, virtually unanimously, this House had already dismissed a definition of torture without the term'reiterated'. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And I remember the vote in favour of Giovanardi, Nitto Palma and Senator Bonfrisco, which I quote only because they spoke before me. It would be right and proper to list all 231 names. I urge the representatives of the Forces of Order to do so. I did it. It's in the record. [[Comments of Senator Bonfrisco]] We have said so many times and I do not want to repeat it: what was asked and which I come back to ask is the introduction of a common crime. We have supported the common crime precisely because we are for the protection of the Forces of Order. That is why I would like to remind you that there are no operational protocols for the Forces of Order, protocols that are rigorous, detailed and effective. This is really needed to protect the Forces of Order in our country. Therefore, remembering that today can no longer be persecuted, without this crime, not even the torture of a couple who may be tortured for one night by criminals, I ask that today we continue to vote on the amendments relating to the bill on the crime of torture. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u91	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it will take me two minutes to express the sharing of the Group of the European Forza Italia of this change in the timetable and the postponement of the debate on this measure which, moreover, we have requested and hoped for in today's sitting. I would like to remind those who talk about exploitations that we had already expressed our doubts about this text on Thursday, so regardless of the dramatic events that have upset Europe and the international community, which are a further cause for concern. We, therefore, have no different position today than last Thursday. I would also like to recall, without going into the matter, because this is not the place and there is no time either, that we in the Commission had also agreed with the word "reiterate" and alternatively we had proposed other wordings that were rejected - even my amendments - that did not contain the word "reiterate" but limited the configuration of this hypothetical crime, avoiding, for example, that the institutional activity that is carried out (I think of a demonstration in the square) could be configured as an occasion of torture. We claim the merit of this pause for reflection and will check whether there is a willingness to respect an international convention on this matter; we believe that Italy must do so because we are all against torture. Having said that, it is appropriate that we should not add to this duty of our Parliament a punitive intention towards our forces of order, which, we have repeated on the subject and will return to talk about it in the next few days, must act with the certainty that they have the institutions behind them. You cannot ask to turn armed even out of service to protect the citizens - as some ministers of this government said - and then put everyone in the sights. We do not want gunmen around, but we want those who risk our security not to have against the laws of a state that considers them enemies. Therefore, we are pleased that the Forces of Order can take advantage of further reflection while someone, with that amendment, wanted to settle an alliance that was almost a revenge of the sixty-eight men against the police forces that we instead want to protect and respect. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and the Divine Senator.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u94	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to remind you of 19 July 1992. Today we have quoted so many dates and I would like this to remain in the record. I am referring to the massacre in Via D'Amelio, where not only one person died, but also the five escort agents who worked and wanted to teach us the courage of ideas. So, with regard to the courage of ideas, I regret listening to Senator Zanda say that he postpones the examination of the bill on the introduction of torture just because he is not sure he has the majority. So what are we doing here? Is this or is it not a Parliament? The numbers are fixed by voting, so it would be nice for everyone today to have the courage of their own ideas and to continue with the calendar of previous work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u95	We take your invitation and proceed to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda for today's sitting. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable of proceedings to refer the draft law on the introduction of torture back to the Commission. It's not approved. BONFRISCO (CoR). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u98	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, I didn't want you to spend this day of parliamentary work without us focusing... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u99	Colleagues, those who want to leave the Chamber do so quietly. Senator Lumia's is an intervention on the anniversary of the massacre in Via D'Amelio. Since we have worked - personally I have stayed here without being able to go, as every year, to the site of the massacre - I would like this intervention to take place in due respect and silence. I repeat, those who want to leave the Chamber do so quietly. Anyone who wants can hold back in this Chamber to speak. Continue your intervention, Senator Lumia.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u100	Mr President, I said that I did not want this day to pass without remembering this particular anniversary. Many of us have always been present there; today we are here to work and we want to remember from this Chamber also on July 19 of twenty-four years ago, when the history of our country was upset by the umpteenth massacre of Mafia, the massacre of Via D'Amelio, in which Judge Paolo Borsellino and the five agents of his escort, of which I want to remember the names: Emanuela Loi, Agostino Catalano, Vincenzo Li Muli, Walter Cosina, Claudio Traina. [[Stretch applause. The President stands up and with him the whole House.]] Our country is not resigned, it must not be resigned. It is a story that still needs to speak to everyone's conscience. And so it is in many schools, in the new generations. He must continue to question the representatives of the institutions and make sure that the truth, the whole truth, continues to be sought. Many believe that this is an impossible mission, because around the massacres the system of collusions often prevents one from reaching the most bitter and terrible truths. But those bitter and terrible truths are able to explain why in our country, in the massacres of 1992 and 1993, what ours knew to act in that way and decided to act in that mechanism. We know, Mr President, that Paolo Borsellino was aware of the risks he was taking. He was informed - alas - of the negotiation started with ours, with Totò Riina in the lead. He was also disappointed at that way of presenting his candidacy to the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor. Rammaricato, angry and bitter, because he felt in that candidacy the trait of isolation and not of the responsibility to lead an important institution, conceived and wanted by Giovanni Falcone. Still, he was bitter about the lack of protection, as is derived from a careful and honest reading of those days. A lack of protection that exposed him even when he went to his mother's house. And so he was also embarrassed by the subtraction of the red agenda, that agenda where he marked his thoughts, responsibilities and the system of collusions. That is why, Mr President, we must not give up the search for the truth, of course with various instruments: judicial instruments, which are the responsibility of the judiciary, but also with the work of Parliament through the parliamentary anti-Mafia Commission. It is up to democracy, in our parliamentary context, given the powers of the Commission, to go all the way and not to escape the search for political and institutional responsibilities and collusions. Mr President, those massacres, as you have also been able to live as a protagonist, have marked the history of our country. We need to make sure that the story that we have to build together can remember, tell the facts how they went and make sure that in our country the mafias are beaten and removed from the relationship with politics and institutions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u103	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the words in memory of this very important figure in our history. A person who has fought for legality and against crime with the feeling of serving the State, with the feeling of serving people through an action of justice. A man who put himself long after the fulfillment of his duty, because he knew every day to risk his life. Life that, unfortunately, has lost. I would say that he was an example from every point of view, not only in the context of the fight against the Mafia, which must be pursued with determination, but in general for all those who serve the State and for all the citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u106	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I was a fervent supporter of those two servants of the State who were Falcone and Borsellino. And I was when Falcone and Borsellino were severely challenged within the judiciary (and not only) and they were also made the subject of denigratory and slanderous campaigns against them. They lost their lives because they fought the mob. Those who read the famous book of John Falcone or listened to what Borsellino said know that they theorized that, like all human events, the Mafia could have a beginning, a development and an end. So the mob could be bent, but the mob took advantage of the collusions it could find anywhere to power its power. Falcone did not run after the political theorems, Falcone fought the mobsters hard, also knowing how to distinguish the reality of true repentance from those who were slanderers and wanted to throw away. So, Mr Lumia, I agree with the first passage of your speech and I agree with what you have said, but when we end up talking about the State-Mafia negotiation and a completely political reading of the events, so we must not fight the Mafia, but we must incriminate this state entity that would have done this fantastic negotiation, on this level then we open a political speech. I also say this to the President: I have been a Member of Parliament, I have been a Regional Councillor...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u107	Senator Giovanardi, it is a moment of commemoration, not of political evaluation of the processes that are under way. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u108	Then you had to interrupt my colleague Lumia when he talked about the state-mafia negotiation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u109	I would like to remind you of this: this is not an item on the agenda. If you wish, you can intervene on the anniversary of the massacre in Via d'Amelio.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u110	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). So, if you are President, you should call Mr Lumia back when, instead of commemorating Judge Borsellino, to whom I bow for his courage and determination, he has made a whole series of political arguments, accusing, as usual, the State of complicity and collusion. [[Comments from the PD Group]] On this I disagree because I believe that the state is there, with the magistrates, with the government and with the institutions, and has continued to fight the Mafia and must show it decisively with all those who carry out this battle with the maximum possible unity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u113	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Lumia for reminding us of such an important day at the close of the Chamber. And we are very little, all of us, Senator Lumia, you, me, perhaps even the Fat President who even with that season, with those men, worked and that law and that country served. We are very little even compared to the rhetoric of the anti-mafia that ended up making us look like a day like this one one day, when instead it is not. Today, as every day, as tomorrow, as the day after tomorrow; and I address this heartfelt appeal to President Grasso, who is at the same time senator among the senators, President of the Senate, and man of law, so that memory is not limited to this and instead is an opportunity to reflect, as we should always do and as always we strive to make, in every measure we vote, on the meaning that has had in the history of our country the sacrifice of those two men and before them of many others: magistrates who have paid with their lives to serve the State, as they did policemen and policemen. And today that has been such a lively day, so difficult to tell for those who are still fond of a stadium fan vision (on the one hand who defends one thing and on the other who defends another), I think this memory - which I hope can be a more important celebration than that little thing we are doing here today and at this moment - helps us to distinguish that supreme good to which we all tend - I am sure - while responding to political visions of different societies that can make us seem divided. But I am sure that in the memory of a man and many men like him and of the many women who in that area and not only sacrifice and dedicate their lives to serving this country, in that memory today we must find the strength not to deny the role of this Parliament. I therefore appeal to you, Mr President, to be our guarantor, as always, of a celebration that is not only that of memory, but that of daily commitment. Thank you for what you want to do to make us, me or Senator Lumia seem less small, the memory of this day. [[Applause from the CoR and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u114	Thank you, Senator. I personally sent a letter, which was also published, in which I regretted that I could not be present, as every year, at the commemoration of the massacre. Paolo Borsellino leaves a legacy of values, a moral heritage that must never be dispersed. This House and each of us must help to perpetuate its memory. However, I would like to thank you for this moment, which makes me feel part of a House that still feels these values and wants to perpetuate them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u117	PHASE (PD). Mr President, Senators, Senators, with this speech at the end of the sitting continues, today, a relay with which, together with many other senators and many other senators, we will remember every woman who will be killed at the hands of a man, to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. The husband killed her in the house, with at least three hammered to the head; he would then strangle her and immediately turned himself in, he confessed. It was the dawn of Saturday, the house, a small villa in the province of Varese, in Laveno Mombello, was reached immediately from 118, but there was nothing more to do: Loretta Gisotti - this is the name of the woman - fifty-four years old, a graduate make-up artist, had already died from the serious wounds inflicted. Tension between the two spouses leaving for the holidays: trivial reasons, it seems. But a feminicide a day doesn't seem to be enough. In Villagrazia di Carini, in the province of Palermo, the carabinieri stopped, again in the night between Friday and Saturday, Giovanni Baiada, eighty years old, retired, accused of having killed his wife, Maria Licari, seventy years old, with a blow to the head. The measure was issued by the Palermo Public Prosecutor. According to the military, the event would have happened in the course of the umpteenth fight. ISTAT informs us that in Italy every 2.2 days a woman is killed. 46.3 percent of these women die at the partner's hands. The severity of sexual and physical violence has increased. Cases of assisted violence are also growing. Violence against women is almost always described as the result of passionate motives. The stereotype of betrayed honor, which justified the crime of honor, is transformed into that of jealousy, betrayal, abandonment that man has not been able to accept. The partner would be, therefore, a subject to be compassionate for letting himself be dragged to an extreme gesture (a raptus, perhaps). An explanation, in short, that, by giving an attenuating to the culprit, would place on the woman a part of responsibility, because somehow responsible for having aroused jealousy. It is a false representation of reality. Femicide is almost always the ultimate result of a series of long-standing violent behaviors, often not reported. With Law No 119 of 2013 against gender violence, which this Parliament approved in implementation of the Istanbul Convention, our country has recognised violence against women as a violation of human rights and gender discrimination. He acknowledged that violence against women is a social phenomenon that has its roots in the relationship of asymmetrical power between men and women. This is why it can be prevented by intervening on the factors that determine it. That is why a plan against violence against women has been proposed and approved, and in the meantime, instruments of protection have been strengthened to ensure greater safety for women threatened. However, it is necessary to monitor that these measures work and that the plan is actually implemented. An appeal to the Minister for Equal Opportunities and to the Government everything: monitor the application, the merits and the limits of Law No. 119 of 2013 and above all give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. An appeal to the media: stop justifying murderers and blaming women. An appeal to the country: 160 women killed every year, we can no longer accept this massacre. The United Nations General Assembly, in its Resolution No 54/134 of 17 December 1999, designated the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women on 25 November 1999. We want to celebrate this day at every feminicide. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u118	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-07-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-662.ana.u119	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, July 20, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 and the second at 16, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.13 p.m.
