ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 4.44 p.m. and resumed at 4.55 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u9	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I renew my request for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 16.56 a.m. and resumed at 17.17 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u11	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u14	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I renew my request for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u15	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u16	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u17	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 17,18 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u18	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2067, 1844 and 2032, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 176, 209, 286, 299, 381, 382, 384, 385, 386, 387, 389, 468, 581, 597, 609, 614, 700, 708, 709, 1008, 1113, 1456, 1587, 1681, 1682, 1683, 1684, 1693, 1713, 1824, 1905, 1921, 1922, 2103, 2295 and 2457.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Madam Undersecretary, the reform process of this majority and this government continues, supported in a coherent and decisive way by the political force of the People's Area. For a long time, in all the talk shows and in all the conferences, we have been talking about the length of the process and we point out the days necessary for the definition of a judgment, which penalize our country to the economic level and of international credibility. With this measure we intend to move from emergency legislation to systematic and structural action. For example, I would like to mention the extinction of the crime for remedial conduct: it is an institution that, on the deflagration plane, will bring a series of crimes, whose pursuit absorbs time, work and means, to be resolved in the shooting of a few jokes. This will be possible, of course, for the crimes of no social alarm, because they are crimes against the offended person, in which the latter, once received total compensation, is more than satisfied. In addition, there is intervention on alternative rites, a very useful tool for a congested judicial system such as ours: these types of dispute resolution must be reinforced because they ensure justice quickly and effectively. With regard to the appeal, the delegation contained in the draft law under consideration gives the Government the power to intervene, without affecting the guarantees of defence, in order to rationalise some mechanisms that had led to the abuse of that defensive instrument. A certain time limit is finally set for the conduct of preliminary investigations and for the decision to dismiss or refer to court against the magistrates: it is the sign of a cultural change so that all the actors taking part in the process respect rules and times, also to protect the rights of the defence. I remember, again, the increases in punishment for the crimes of theft and robbery. The changes to the interception regime are aimed at preventing the spread of interceptions that have no criminal relevance. In addition, we punish the conducts in which the interceptions are fraudulently stolen, to offend the reputation of others. During the Commission's work, it was rightly decided to postpone to a more thorough and thoughtful discussion the reform of the matter of notifications: the accelerated aim of the rules initially imagined, in fact, did not adequately take into account the rights and safeguards to guarantee the defence, putting at risk the knowledge, by the accused, of the accused charges. With regard to the prison system and the life of prisoners, the draft law aims to simplify procedures: rules are laid down for the deferred and possible contradictory for decisions under the jurisdiction of the magistrate and the supervisory court, with the exception of those relating to the revocation of alternative measures to detention. In order to encourage the re-education of people in prison, it has been positively decided to continue to review the way and conditions for access to alternative measures. Inspired by the recovery and social reintegration of prisoners are also measures to encourage remedial justice and the promotion of work and volunteering. Finally, it was decided to adapt the rules of the penitentiary system to the re-educational needs of minors, with particular attention to education and contacts with external society, as a function of social reintegration. Finally, the requirement is suspended for one year and six months after the first grade and as many as after the appeal. In this way, the institute remains characterised by a guaranteeing and protection of the right to defence. In other words, the response to the procedural requirements of longer periods is combined with respect for the principle of reasonable duration of the process. This reform is the result of a mediation achieved in the Justice Commission through the collaborative approach of all parliamentary groups. The main point of the whole measure is the protection of the accused and the respect of the constitutional guarantee of a fair trial, which cannot under any circumstances be regarded as a process with an uncertain and vague end. The reasonable duration of the trial and the guarantees to protect the accused are the cornerstones of a state of liberal law which this measure strengthens and guarantees for the entire duration of a proceeding. I therefore hope that the text we are debating today will be adopted quickly, as a further part of the reformist action of the majority of this Parliament. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u20	She's enlisted to speak Senator Filippin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u21	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the forty articles which make up the complex measure before the Senate bring important changes to the criminal law, both from the substantive and the procedural point of view. In particular, in the area of substantive law, in addition to the introduction of a new cause for the extinction of crimes that can be prosecuted, following remedial conduct, the Senate Act 2067 also intervenes on the sanctioning framework of certain crimes, such as theft, robbery and political-mafia electoral exchange. This is what I will focus on, although I am aware that political and media attention is directed to other issues, particularly the gigantic issue of prescription and how to ensure the constitutional principle of the reasonable duration of trials in an Italian system that provides - unlike others - the obligatory prosecution. But other colleagues have already spoken and others will do so. Turning specifically to the substantive content of the Senate Act 2067, I recall here Article 1, which inserts in the penal code the new Article 162-b, which allows the judge to declare the termination of the crime, hear the parties and the person offended, when the accused has repaired the damage entirely with refunds or compensation and has eliminated, where possible, the harmful and dangerous consequences of the crime. It is, of course, only crimes that can be prosecuted against parties, however subject to remission. The intention is to allow, where possible, the repair of the damage and, therefore, the declaration of the extinction of the crime. If this is not possible, it is a fact that no longer depends on the will of the person concerned, however, it must proceed in the same way. It is clear that the intention is mainly of a deflagrant nature, in order to prevent small cabotage offences from clogging the work of the offices of the prosecutor and of the judges, who must devote themselves to something more important. The aim, therefore, is to improve the efficiency of the Italian criminal system, i.e. to concentrate resources, particularly human resources, where necessary. Article 3 intervenes instead on the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange, as referred to in Article 416-b of the Criminal Code, and tightens the sanctioning framework. Others have already highlighted the great attention given in this legislature to the issue of corruption offences, the hateful crimes of corruption, not only because of the negative weight they have on the Italian, economic and social system, but above all because of the load of mistrust that they cause in citizens and in their relationship with the institutions. In this respect, it is good to remember that this Parliament itself, with Law No 62 of 2014, has modified the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange, intervening in the face of incriminated conduct and dilating it considerably because it has been understood, as has been demanded from several parties (remember well-known incentive campaigns), also the acceptance of the promise of votes in exchange for the promise or grant, of other usefulness, as well as money. There was still the problem of the sanctioning framework that now finds a more complete forecast in the text in question: the bill to our examination intervenes again on the edittal framework, sanctioning this crime with the penalty of imprisonment from six to twelve years. But what I would like to draw attention to is above all Articles 4 to 6. With these articles, in fact, a strong grip is achieved on muggings, thefts in the house and robberies: the crimes most warned by Italians, those that undermine the safety of their home and the possibility of moving free in the street. It is the numbers that give substance to the perception of citizens: the frequency of thefts, a house robbed every two minutes, the exponential increase with the doubling of the thefts in ten years. Censis data tell us that they were 110,887 in 2004, but already in 2013 they had risen to 251,422: as much as 127 percent more. Just to make a comparison, the murders dropped in the same period (29.7 percent). Unfortunately, the feminicides have not dropped, if I am allowed this bitter and sorry observation. At the same time, the attention of the law enforcement agencies to this crime also grows. In 2013, 15,263 people (+139.6 percent compared to 2004) were reported free of charge, of which 1,366 were minors, and 6,628 were arrested. Inmates for house theft and rip-off were 3.530 in 2014, with an increase of 131 percent compared to 2007. The increase in domestic peace - disturbing crimes leads to an increase in the concerns of ordinary people. It was necessary to intervene and it was done. This text provides for increases in penalties aimed mainly at preventing snipers, thieves and robbers, once arrested by the police, perhaps after important investigative efforts, from being released. Articles 4 to 6 intervene on the discipline of certain crimes against the property, i.e. theft at home and with rip-off (Article 624- bis of the Criminal Code), aggravated theft (Article 625 of the Criminal Code) and robbery (Article 628 of the Criminal Code), increasing penalties and excluding, in relation to the crime of theft, the balancing of certain circumstances. Article 4 intervenes on the sanctioning framework of the crime of theft at home and of robbery, raising the minimum edittale of the prison sentence from the current year to three years and the pecuniary penalty, in the minimum, from the current 309 to 927 euros and, in the maximum, from the current 1,032 to 1,500 euros. The provision also tightens the penalty framework for aggravated conduct, as provided for in the third paragraph of Article 624-bis of the Criminal Code. It means that the minimum edittale rises from the present three to four years - and we all know what this means - with a maximum expected penalty of ten years, if the crime is aggravated by violence on things or by the dexterity or presence of more people or by the presence of only one but distorted or by a person who pretends to be a public official or in charge of public service, thus abusing the trust of the victim. Again, always with reference to article 624 -bis (theft in the home or with tear), the bill n. 2067 adds a further paragraph, for which the mitigating circumstances, competitors with one or more of the aggravating circumstances of the theft that I mentioned earlier, that is those referred to in Article 625, cannot be considered equivalent or prevalent with respect to these and the decreases of penalty are therefore carried out on the quantity of the same, resulting from the increase consequent to the aggravating circumstances. Article 5 amends Article 625 of the Criminal Code. In the case of the aggravating circumstances listed in that article, the crime of theft - the simple one, as it were, provided for in Article 624 - is punished with the penalty of imprisonment from two to six years, increasing also in this case the minimum edittale. Finally, Article 6 intervenes on the crime of robbery, referred to in Article 628 of the Criminal Code, raising the edittal limits of both the prison sentence (from the current three to four years in minimum) and the pecuniary one. The provision also tightens the penalty framework for aggravated conduct provided for in the third paragraph of Article 628 of the Criminal Code. Is that an adequate and sufficient answer? Perhaps not for other political forces in this House; but providing the magistrates with effective tools, ensuring sound criminal proceedings is essential to give citizens a greater sense of security. It is an unbearable duty for the state. And this bill is certainly a useful step in that direction. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u23	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we want to reform a fundamental chapter for the proper functioning of the state machinery, which provides services for citizens such as the discipline of criminal proceedings. A necessity for our rule of law that has been firmly highlighted by several parties, not only by some, sometimes even personal stakeholders, but indeed by the vast majority of the users of justice. It is precisely the area of justice, from the point of view of the timing and the answers of certainty and because of the reduced financing, on the one hand, and of a lack of investment planning on the most logistical aspects, on the other, it is unable to give efficient answers and services to citizens. Therefore, speeding up the criminal process was one of the issues that most moved the proceedings of the House, before, and of the 2nd Senate Commission, later. Certainly during the process of forming this bill there have been moments of confrontation between different political sensibilities within Parliament: this is the most evident demonstration of complexity, when introducing aspects that profoundly affect the mechanisms of justice, and consequently on the real life of many citizens, to really arrive at a rule that is clear, precise and immediately applicable without any form of perplexity in the interpretation. The legislator has the task of finding a political balance of synthesis between the various bodies, represented also during the hearings held, attended by most of the most representative representatives of the judiciary, the lawyering, the press and the media. I would like to highlight some of the key points of the measure that we are examining today, which represent this very balance. We have provided for a tightening of penalties for crimes against property, such as thefts and robberies, in order to meet the security needs of citizens. Edittal penalties for the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange have also been increased. With regard to interceptions, we have rightly tried to limit the fraudulent interceptions, and only in order to harm the honour of the people. It was therefore intended to strengthen the principle of confidentiality of communications and telephone conversations, in accordance with the constitutional dictation, in the execution and management of intercepted material, especially with regard to persons occasionally involved in investigation proceedings. Measures have been laid down to simplify the criminal process, specifically to rationalise the possibilities of appealing against the decisions of the judge and consequently to shorten the time of justice. I would like to remind you that with this legislation we are implementing a reform process in which we have taken into account the strong indications from European institutions and bodies. I am referring in particular to remedial justice, which was lacking as a cultural principle in our legal system, for which a delegation was given to the Government concerning the extension of the power of information control of the offended person. This is part of a broader delegation of reform of the penitentiary system, in which attention is also paid to the recovery and reintegration of children in prison, women in prison and mothers in prison. In conclusion, it seems to me that the result of the text drawn up by the 2nd Senate Commission is a real balance. Everything, of course, is perfectible, especially in complex and detailed matters such as criminal matters, but today we are taking more than one step forward towards a better and more efficient model of criminal justice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is registered to speak Senator Di Giacomo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the work that led the Commission to assess the measure positively is evidence of a fruitful and continuous exchange not only between the Commission and Parliament, but also between Parliament, experts and the various professional figures. And this happens precisely because we are faced with a theme that inevitably requires the awareness of having to proceed with the method of comparison and with the examination of concrete experience, without the possibility of having preconstitutional and infallible solutions. For these very reasons, we are faced with a measure that has a long gestation behind it, the verification of its effects and its impact is absolutely necessary. With this bill we intervene on very different subjects, ranging from strengthening defensive guarantees to the reasonable duration of the trials, to the theme of the penitentiary order, so that the constitutional principles of the effectiveness of the sentence, including its reeducational function, and the guarantees of the defence are respected to the full. Briefly listing the main points of the measure, I would like to remind you of the increase in penalties for crimes against the heritage; the delegation for the reform of interceptions, which aims to ensure a guaranteed use in the sign of confidentiality of the intercepted material; the measures for the simplification of the criminal process, with specific regard to the subject of appeals; the reform of the penitentiary order, with particular attention to reparational justice. Well, all these matters are brought back to unity in the text we are discussing today, believing that it contains reasonable solutions and also based on the principle of proportionality. At the same time, in the sense of greater accountability and exaltation of the responsibility of the professional interpreter and the judge, the role of the jurisdiction is renewed, at the same time balanced with the protection of the fundamental guarantees of the person. I would also like to stress what seems to be a proper balance between Parliament and the Executive as regards delegations. The delegations provided for are necessary, because we are faced with open prospects and we do not have the opportunity to translate this into analytical and detailed regulation. They have, in view, a capacity for further verification in the return of government measures also to the consultative examination of the legislative power. Therefore, there will still be an opportunity to verify the consistency of the measures that the Commission considers to have to take on the very basis of the draft law under consideration today. To renew the justice system of our country, which suffers from the chronic evils that we all know, means to put hand with severity to the reform of the penal code and procedures, especially in order to have clear and precise criminal cases, that they are also a support for the same work of the interpreter. The measure under discussion opens up to a comprehensive work that will receive a further piece with the draft law on civil trial, currently being examined by the Justice Commission. Today we want to lay the foundations for a thorough work on the organisation, means, resources, a proper reworking of the way in which offices are located and support for operators. Parliament will then have the task and responsibility to check whether the legislative measures adopted will be of the desired benefit and whether all the actors involved in the reform of the criminal universe will be placed in a position to work to ensure swift, balanced and effective justice for our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u25	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the draft law under consideration is one of the various interventions through which this Parliament is dealing with the issue of justice with a view to reform. The organization and administration of justice have represented - and in many respects continue to represent - the ground of a bitter political confrontation that, for a long time, has prevented the necessary reforms to ensure the efficiency of a service fundamental to the life of our country: the more we have discussed and clashed in recent years around this topic, the more we have allowed its most serious dysfunctions to become chronic evils. Justice has thus become, for our citizens and our businesses, not the sphere to turn to in order to see guaranteed rights or to give protection to their legitimate interests, not the dimension where even the weakest among the citizens can find shelter from the abuses of the strongest, but the symbol of a Calvary to keep as far away from their lives as possible, and this despite the value of the professionalism and competences that operate within the vast planet justice. Of all this it was the country that made the shopping. Today the malfunctioning of the judicial system is, according to all the most warned observers, and especially according to those who look at us from outside, one of the biggest boulders on the road to growth and does not allow us to sit fully among our best European partners. The complexity of Italian justice is such that it cannot be faced with a single reformist intervention, with a single solution, with an intervention deemed Messianic. What we started in this legislature as a majority in government and as parliamentarians was a step-by-step journey, which certainly saw the continuous and fruitful exchange between the Government and Parliament. We have not been dealing solely with government initiatives. Important acts of parliamentary initiative have found full legitimacy in the relationship with the Government and with the parliamentary vote. And I remember, for example, those who have introduced institutions such as testing, which have been required for years (and never had Parliament found the strength and energy to introduce it into our regulatory system); the so-called and long-awaited decriminalization which, precisely in the Senate, has found room and legitimacy in the Commission and has finally become an important instrument of intervention; the particular tenuity of the fact; the discipline that has reformed the protective custody; important interventions on crimes against public administration, such as corruption, fake budget and self-recycling, which have undermined and continue to seriously undermine the Italian economy. What we are about to examine is a complex, broad measure, which affects a number of institutions, mainly procedural, but also substantive law. I remember the cultural and technical approach that we wanted to use: first, a kind of double cultural track has been introduced. Is it possible in our country to keep security together with guarantees? Not for many. For years we have seen a conflict between these two dimensions: security advocates against security advocates; those who paid attention to guarantees neglected the issue of security. In this bill, finally, a bridge is created between the dimension of security and that of guarantees. Finally, I repeat: we have arrived late, but the innovation of this approach must be valued and rewarded. In addition, there has been a two-track technical approach, carried out by myself and other Members of my Group - and I am also referring to other Members of Parliament with a majority and opposition and to the work done in the Commission - in order to have an approach capable of never confusing common crimes with those of mafia and terrorism. This double track has also entered the standards. And we have been very careful, meticulous, in avoiding that proper attention to the issue of guarantees could undermine the issue of security from the point of view of the fight against the mafia and terrorism. Some very concrete examples I want to anticipate in which the double track (cultural and technical-legal) has found full legitimacy: I refer to Article 18 of the bill that we are preparing to approve, which modifies the discipline of preliminary investigations and the filing procedure. And I am referring in particular to this discipline, which has been very much discussed and which we believe should be given a great deal of attention: In any event, the public prosecutor shall be required to prosecute or to file a case within three months of the expiry of the maximum period of investigation and, in any event, of the expiry of the time limits laid down in Article 415-a. In the case referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of this Article, at the request of the prosecutor before expiry, the Attorney General at the Court of Appeal may extend, by a reasoned decree, the period for no more than three months, giving notice to the Prosecutor of the Republic. The period referred to in the first period of this paragraph shall be - well - 15 months for the offences referred to in paragraph 2 (a), numbers 1), (3) and (4) of this Article. If he does not take his own decisions on the prosecution within the time limit laid down in this paragraph, the prosecutor shall immediately notify the prosecutor-general to the court of appeal. As you can see, here too the principle of double track has found full legitimacy: there is a difference in treatment for common crimes and crimes of mafia and terrorism. Clearly, the three - month bond for common crimes can also create some difficulty. It is therefore necessary that the Ministry of Justice - and this is why I address the Minister - organise itself in such a way, as is being done in recent months, to rationalise, strengthen and improve the organizational capacity of the prosecutors, the ability to give a response in terms of staff and administrative staff, in order to avoid that dysfunctions can be created within our country for common crimes. And this is so true that amendments - I have tabled one myself - move the deadline from three to six months; but for the crimes of mafia and terrorism there is no such danger. I would like to focus on another sensitive point, which has caused a great deal of debate, on which particular attention has been paid and a long debate has taken place within the Justice Commission, which takes into account the double technical-legal track, which was - as you all know - conceived and conceived by Falcone and which is a living reality within our code. Article 36 of our bill contains principles and guiding criteria for the reform of the penitentiary system. This is also a very long-awaited reform; it is an important delegation that we offer to the Government, on which Parliament will monitor and be required to give opinions. We will follow very carefully this point of innovative scope, expected for many years and requested us by civil society, by the operators of the world of volunteering and associationism and by European and international observers on the planet prison. I would remind all our colleagues that until a few months ago, we had the problem of overcrowding, the main evil that gripped the prison planet. I must thank the Minister and the Government here, but I must also say that an important contribution has been made by Parliament, particularly the Senate, to ensure that our country is no longer gripped by this problem. And the reform has now arrived. We no longer have the theme of overcrowding. The reform finds space and finds it according to the double track criterion. First of all, in the first paragraph of Article 36 the double track is well presented and clearly, clearly and precisely stated: Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 41-a of Law No 354 of 26 July 1975 - the famous 41-a, I stress - and subsequent amendments, in the exercise of the delegation referred to in Article 34, the legislative decrees amending the penitentiary order, for the following profiles, shall be adopted in accordance with the following principles and guiding criteria: The message is as follows: Mafias and terrorists subjected to the 41- bis do not think that you can open spaces for you of different nature besides that of a rigorous treatment, naturally well guaranteed in terms of human rights, but that will not give you the opportunity to use that dilation of individualized and personalized treatment, because, otherwise, we would make a resounding error, of which, on the skin of so many victims and on the history of our country, we learned to take into account. Point b) of the delegation, which is important, speaks of: "Revision of the modalities and conditions of access to alternative measures," - the important, I stress, alternative measures - "both with reference to the subjective assumptions and with reference to the limits of punishment, in order to facilitate the use of them, except - here is the double track - "that for cases of exceptional gravity and danger and in particular - I add to the avoidance of misunderstandings - "for convictions for crimes of mafia and terrorism also international." Double binary was there and double binary remains; this point is not missed. Another point of delegation, point (e), is also very sensitive and important, has made a great deal of discussion in the Commission, and is treated very carefully on the basis of the principle of double track. Recited point (e) : "removal of automatisms and foreclosures that prevent or delay, both for relapses and for the perpetrators of certain categories of crimes, the individualization of the reeducational treatment and the differentiation of the penitentiary paths" - here is the guarantee of the double track - "in relation to the type of crimes committed and the personal characteristics of the sentenced person." Basically, we want to make a qualitative leap, which Senator Ginetti has already explained in her speech. This is not about massive surgery. It is not a matter of thinking that all types of prisoners are placed in the same condition. We must aim for an increasingly individualised and differentiated treatment, which must, however, take into account the type of crime committed. We know that, for crimes of mafia and terrorism, the aggregate characteristic, even within the prison, is sonship; as far as mafia crimes are concerned, it is about the expansion of control of the territory and the hierarchicalization of power even within prisons. This is why we wanted to incorporate the principle of double-tracking, which allows us not to commit mistakes and blunders, and therefore, as far as terrorism is concerned, to combat the phenomena of radicalisation that often occur within prisons, and, as far as the mafias are concerned, to prevent the power of the bosses and their decisions from being passed on to the outside, which can touch even very delicate spheres, such as those relating to murders, contracts, the vote of exchange, corruption and all the activities that the mafia usually exercises even from inside prisons. The text then contains a closing rule concerning the prison benefits for those sentenced to life imprisonment, that is a very delicate and important category, which are the various prominent bosses, the so-called leaders of the various Mafia organizations. Here too it is said that action must be taken, except in cases of exceptional gravity and danger specifically identified and, in any case, in cases of condemnation of crimes of mafia and terrorism also international. As you can see, the text places particular attention on avoiding the use of the opening that needs to be done in prisons, its modernisation and respect for the principles of treatment and reeducation, provided for in our Constitutional Charter, as a Trojan horse to grant benefits not due to those who are restricted for reasons of mafia and terrorism. And this is the clear will of the legislator, the rapporteurs and all the members of the Justice and Government Commission and it is good to reiterate this in this Parliamentary Assembly. In any case, the literal data of the text is quite clear and precise. The same was true of the other very sensitive point, on which we have discussed a great deal, concerning interceptions. There has also been a debate, a debate, speeches, and it has been said that there are gaps. In the meantime I say in a very clear and clear way, without fear of being denied, that a choice has not been made to limit the use of interceptions. This point was not considered worthy of change by the legislator. Therefore, no one can think that in our country, grabbed by serious problems, such as corruption and crimes of mafia and terrorism, there is even a minimum limitation to the correct, disciplined, controlled and guaranteed use of this important instrument of investigation, which of course cannot be replaced. And another intervention was carried out by the legislator, in harmony with the experience gained by the best prosecutors. And this is so true that, during the hearings in the Justice Commission, representatives of all the main prosecutors who issued the famous circulars, who simply regulated the use of interceptions, were called in order to prevent improper publication from harming citizens' right to privacy. Therefore, the delegation that we propose to the Government moves within a very precise groove that does not limit the use of interceptions, but transposes, on the normative level, what already the best and most committed prosecutors - and gradually all Italian prosecutors - have established independently, with internal circulars. The principle of double track has found full citizenship also with regard to that invasive method of capture, much discussed and of course to be verified in a democratic system, which is represented by the so-called trojans. Also on this very invasive system, a discussion took place within the Justice Commission and the principle of double track was used, following the indications recently emerged in jurisprudence. It was decided that this system could be used not for common crimes, but only and exclusively for crimes of mafia and terrorism. This is an important choice, which avoids that this really invasive instrument - I stress - can escape a democratic control, becoming detrimental to the protection of privacy and human relations even of subjects outside those indicated as the object of the investigation, and can become an improper instrument of blackmail, even by a system of power, that in our country has often escaped democratic controls. And, therefore, it was also chosen here to follow a double track. Colleagues, I think that the work done should be appreciated and the debate in this House will enrich the work we are doing. I remember - I take a step back and go back to the first articles of the measure - that some very important choices have been made: I refer, for example, to the need to ensure answers to the question of security against predatory crimes (i.e. thefts and robberies). A very serious and qualified choice has also been made in this regard. Therefore, the minimum penalties have been high to prevent the demand for security in our country from becoming only the subject of conferences or studies, where people tear their clothes, they all declare that it is necessary to intervene and where often it is done in competition to those who believe that it is necessary to be very vigorous against this type of crime, and then leave things as they are. The Government and Parliament, on the other hand, have decided in a very balanced and serious way to intervene, without overflowing, keeping up the proportionality that our Constitution asks us when we have to intervene in the matter of penalties. And the rapporteurs have tabled an amendment that goes in this direction, increasing it also with regard to serious extortion offences, so that proportionality can remain standing and therefore be systemic. We also wanted to speak on Article 416-b. This House has been inflamed several times and has discussed a great deal about the type of crime it envisages: it has been changed, the scope of the conduct has been extended, but in reality there was a limit on the duration of the sentence. Well, it was decided - and the Senate appreciated the House's will - to increase imprisonment from six to twelve years. You know that there has been a wide-ranging debate on this issue, and I have noted, in the pourparler with some senators, the concern about the increase in punishment, which was necessary, for the proportion with Article 416-a, also in order to avoid thinking that the crime of political-mafia exchange is even less disdainable and important in the hierarchy of the legislator's attentions of 416- bis simple. But be careful: the increase has not changed the use of interceptions, because such use has always been possible since 1992 when 416-ter entered our system. So it was, so it remains and so it will be: the use of interceptions is legitimate and the increase of the penalty has not shifted its use, it does not detect around such use that it remains and remains important, because at the moment spring of democracy there must be no mafia interference. Freedom of vote must be absolutely guaranteed and, therefore, the legislator is right to make a rigorous choice to prevent interference from the mob organisations. But innovative interventions have been made of great courage also around the process, which in Italy has been the subject of innovations, moving on the accusatory plane, but maintaining some residues of the inquisitory model, so the reasonable duration of the process has not been able to find full citizenship. There has been a revisiting of all the procedural phases and we have managed to find those solutions that are able, even here, to keep up that double cultural track I was talking about before: more guarantees and at the same time more security for citizens to have fast, well-made and well-structured processes. It is necessary to avoid the filth that our country has lived for a long time of trials that last many years to the point that, the prescription - is treated and well - can be used instrumentally on one side and on the other: on the one hand, to prevent the conduct of the trials; on the other, to leave open events concerning some citizens suspended for many years until; and this has questioned the authority and the strength of a democracy, unable to decide quickly and determine whether a person is really innocent or guilty. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the work done can be considered good and seen as an undeniable step forward. We will discuss this and we will have a chance to discuss it, but it must be recognised that Parliament, in agreement with the Government, is doing something worthy of a country that finally has the courage to address the issue, namely reforming the justice system and making real breakthroughs. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u28	Madam President, for the sake of fairness and truth, I think one thing must be recognized: the 5 Star Movement was right. When he did the battle on Rule 416-b and said in every way in this House and in the House that it was a wrong rule, he was right. Ladies and gentlemen, the act we are debating at the moment lays down precisely this: lowering the penalty by 41% for the vote on political-mafia exchange was a wrong act, and someone outside these Aules would say abominable. It took two years to recognize it and the damage done is not repairable, because the lowering of the sentence - the gift that has been given to those who agree with the mafia to get the votes - remains despite the increase that is proposed today. In addition, all the anti-mafia prosecutors heard in the bicameral anti-mafia commission also raised another problem: there was not only the question of the lowering of the sentence, but there was also that of the introduction of an additional element that made it impossible to prosecute the crime. And this, pervicaciously, did not want to face it and, therefore, what do we do? You use the mirror for the lark: after giving the penalty discount to all those who will benefit - and there will be many - now you give the contentment by increasing the penalty and leaving unchanged the formulation of the crime and the request of the mafia method, which make it impossible to pursue it. That's what the PMs and the cassation told us. If the Supreme Court says that the new article 416-ter, wanted by the Renzi Government, is norm more favorable to the deed, it means that in these Aules a shame has been realized, a stain that will remain in the years to come on this Government and its majority. This has not been remedied by this rule either. Let us now come to the bill of delegation. (Minister Orlando heads towards the exit of the hemicycle.) Mr Minister, do not leave because that is the fundamental point. Criminal rules and criminal procedures must be discussed in Parliament before Italian citizens and not in the Ministry's closed office, where we do not know who prepares a law - it is uncertain the paternity - and then we deny having written it. And we have witnessed similar episodes with the laws of law. Mr Minister, such important things that concern the freedom of citizens must be discussed here before everyone, taking responsibility for the choices they make. And here important choices are being made, because with this law delegation we go to touch the prison regime, the double track that had been wanted for the mafia and that this law delegation messed up puts at risk. It is true that he saves him for those sentenced to life imprisonment for mafia, but he opens the door to possible interpretations that we would not like to see, because we do not want to see a different prison regime for those convicted for mafia. We don't want to see this Mafia gift made. When you say in this House that there is no limit to interceptions, you lie; and you lie knowing that you lie. Ladies and gentlemen, the limit is written in Article 35 (e) (3) and imagine how these rules are written. We are talking about the most powerful investigation tool available to prosecutors at this time, which can only be activated if criminal activity is taking place there. Well, with the exception of Mafia and terrorist offences, computer investigations require the flagrantness of crime, that is, it will never be activated, because there will be no certainty of the flagrantness of the crime. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is what you were aiming at and wanted to get: tie your hands to the prosecutors. But it is not enough: we have filled the prosecutions with bureaucratic acts and closures within three months of the investigations after the expiry of the deadlines, which is a reverse path compared to what was required in our country. And I am reminded of a text from university studies - the famous essay of Saints Romano - that spoke of the recipients of the legal norms. Who are the recipients of these rules? For whom are these standards written? Are they written for the citizens of this country? Are they written for the decent citizens of this country, who daily confront themselves with the cancer of corruption, which is the disease of Italy? Or are they written for others? That's not what you were wondering. That is not what the citizens are asking us out of these classrooms. The citizens are asking us for simpler justice and you have aggravated the procedures of prosecutors, creating obstacles paths on obstacles. They ask for effective rules, and what do you do? Tie your hands to prosecutors, taking away one of the most effective tools in the fight against corruption. If, then, the suspicion is of wanting to favour those who do such acts - yes, that is the case - who can deny, in the face of such evidence, outside these classrooms, who suspects that this is the real purpose of these norms? That is to favor those who do acts of corruption, who cannot be investigated by prosecutors with the most effective instruments put in place so far. Colleagues, these are shameful rules that should not exist in a civilized country. Even, there are computer programs published and authorized by the Ministry with an act published in the Official Journal. I am referring to a computer investigation program. In this way, those who need it will buy immediately the countermeasure, being computer programs, thus feeding the business and the business of the spies and counterspiones, as if in this country the problem is that the prosecutors blackmail someone. But how is a colleague allowed to say in this House that, through judicial investigations, someone is being blackmailed? If anyone here is blackmailing others, they are the corrupt who have access to the state's rotten structures, to equipment that investigates and intercepts without the permission of the judiciary, which serve not to lead to trial, but to define majorities. With these rules we do not have the necessary equipment to deal with such diseases. I repeat: we don't have it. This rule is a scandal; this rule is a scandal! And don't come and say it's for fighting widespread crime, which has been favored by your actions. After three empty prison decrees you have noticed that in this country the arrogance of the criminals, even the common ones, even the most small, even the street ones, has reached the stars. One day after another we see more and more serious acts... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Don't shake your head, ladies and gentlemen! Last night, in my province, in Giarre, a carabiniere was shot in his house while he was with his family. And the day before in the center of Sicily, in Barrafranca, shot gunshots were fired at the house of another policeman. Here crime raises its head because it knows that it can enjoy wide margins of impunity, the margins that you have guaranteed with your empty prisons, which have liberated 28,000 condemned; 28,000 condemned, who are making a banquet in spite of the poor citizens of our country, of the good people. They're unpunished! What are you doing now? Raise your pains to try to put those 28,000 you freed back in jail? [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] That's what you're doing. First you create a damage and then you try to put on a piece. This can be considered the measure in our examination: a bad piece. We want to act to prevent those investigations that lead straight to the heart of our country's corruption, but without damaging the investigations against the mob. Well, know that important scholars of the phenomenon have been saying for years that there is no mafia without corruption; that there can be corruption without the mafia, but there is no mafia without corruption. What do you do? You weaken the fight against corruption when this is the first problem in this country. There is no privacy problem here. We have held hearings, and the interventions of the Privacy Supervisor will have been five or six in recent years, compared to the billions of euros that cost us corruption every year. And here we come to talk about the existence of problems of privacy protection? But our privacy, that of the MPs and the senators of the opposition, is at risk from the illegal investigations and not from those of the prosecutor, because we from the prosecutors have nothing to fear. We have to fear from your devices, the ones fed by corruption! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] We shall vote against this measure. We will vote against it because it is an ignoble measure, which does not give justice to this country and which will once again favor corruption and the mafia on this pasture. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u29	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u30	Madam President, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, let us look at a complex measure, which contains amendments to the penal code, the penal code and the penitentiary system. (18.20) (Following Mr Moscardelli). The Commission has worked hard to arrive at the adoption of the text under discussion, also through a close discussion, trying to represent the different sensitivities on controversial issues, the subject of many and articulated interventions with different and sometimes opposite judgments. The most critical interventions focused on the topic of the prescription arguing strong objections to the choices made. I do not want to evade this issue, but I believe that we need to reiterate and stress the complexity of the rules we are dealing with in many respects. The measure seeks to improve the regulatory apparatus available to prosecute more effectively some of the offences, modifying and refining instruments, regulating the cases involved, keeping together the reasons of the victims of the crimes and the protection of those accused. The measure is full-bodied and touches many aspects with respect to which we also fill a normative vacuum. It is a useful response and gives the sense of a reform process that goes on and that shows a determination to continue also with respect to the delegation on the overall reform of the criminal process. I would like to dwell on and retrace some significant provisions of this measure. As I said before, there have been critical interventions that have tried to make a contribution on the merits, but I do not want to mention the demagogic-populist interventions, which are indeed surprising, on issues that pertain to the citizen and the citizen before the law: from this point of view I believe that our lighthouse and our reference should be the dictation of the Constitution. With regard to the content of the measure, I would like to mention in particular some rules such as Article 1, which inserts the new Article 162-b of the Criminal Code, which deals with offences punishable by a complaint subject to remission, which facilitates the repair of the damage and the declaration of extinction of the crime. There is a clear deflagrant intent in order to prevent small cabotage offences from clogging the activities of the prosecutor's offices and judges. This is a long-awaited direction, on which we finally go to work concretely, because it is clear that there is a whole series of crimes that engulf the activities of the judicial offices and help to create inefficiencies of justice that cause enormous damage on issues of greater interest and attention that should have, with a fair process and quickly, answers very different from the current. Article 3 intervenes on the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange referred to in Article 416-b of the Criminal Code, invoking the sanctioning framework. Already during the parliamentary term there was an amendment which extended the range of conduct falling within the scope of the provision and reduced the penalty. With this further amendment there is a tightening of the sanction with the penalty of imprisonment from six to twelve years compared to the one currently expected from four to ten years. Article 4 intervenes on crimes of theft in the home and of sniper, raising the minimum of the prison sentence from one year to three years, as well as raising the pecuniary penalty. The new rules intervene on the sanctioning framework of aggravated conduct, as well as on the mitigating circumstances competing with the aggravating circumstances of the theft referred to in Article 625 that cannot be considered equivalent or prevailing with respect to these, avoiding that the credibility of the penalty for these cases can be frustrated. There is therefore a very sensitive area, which in the citizens generates that perception of insecurity and which sees the action of the Forces of the Order frustrated, creating distrust in the citizens in the face of crimes that create serious social alarm. The difficulties with which justice workers find themselves operating, due to the inflamed and inefficiency of the justice system, had created a condition that had created a serious vulnus in the citizens' confidence in the institutions. So here too we intervene to fill a void. Article 6 intervenes on the crime of robbery referred to in Article 628 of the Criminal Code, raising the edittal limits of the prison sentence from three to four years in minimum, as well as the financial penalty. The above considerations also apply to this Article. There is also a block of rules on limitation (Articles 7 to 11) which have been the heart of so many critical speeches in this House. An intervention of a regulatory nature concerns Article 158 of the Criminal Code that governs the beginning of the limitation period; a further paragraph is inserted in that article. It is established that for the offences referred to in Article 392, paragraph 1-a, of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the matter of evidence, that is, for the offences of ill-treatment in the family referred to in Article 572 of the Criminal Code and for the offences referred to in Articles 600, 600-a, 600-b, 600-c, 600-d, 601 and 602 of the Criminal Code, and for the offence of sexual violence and stalking if committed in the detriment of minors, the limitation period shall start from the completion of the eighteenth year of the victim's age, unless the criminal proceedings have been carried out previously. In this case the prescription starts from the acquisition of the news of crime. This provision was intended to implement the Istanbul Convention against Violence against Women, ratified by Italy at the beginning of this parliamentary term. There is therefore a response to a subject which is unfortunately very topical. We are also in this House raising awareness, as a PD Group, with a famous relay to remember the events that unfortunately follow and that see the issue of violence against women - alas - always at the heart of the news. Article 8 amends the rules governing the suspension of the period of limitation. There are rules which lay down certain deadlines for requesting authorization to proceed and referral of the matter to another court; in the event of reasons for preventing the parties, a further hypothesis is the request for letters of formal notice abroad. In addition to the rules on limitation, I would like to mention Article 12, which delegates the Government to adopt one or more legislative decrees to amend the penal code on the procedure of certain crimes and to reform the discipline of personal security measures, providing, in case of reduced capacity, the abolition of double track and the introduction of a penalty treatment aimed at overcoming the conditions that have reduced the capacity of the agent, including through the use of therapeutic and rehabilitation treatments. Here again, I believe that we are taking the lead by intervening on a very sensitive subject, which is the subject of debate, discussion and attention on a very sensitive subject. Then there is also the important Article 13, which contains the delegation for the discipline of the judicial record. Very important, then, is the delegation for the reform of the criminal process and of the penitentiary system. The subject of interceptions of conversations and communications should also be highlighted: the confidentiality of the communications and telephone and telematic conversations which are intercepted must be guaranteed. A measure, therefore - which I have briefly retraced - that seeks to grasp the needs of innovation and evolution of the sensitivity of the country and that pursues multiple objectives, such as hitting more effectively some of the crimes, protecting more the victims of certain crimes, improving the efficiency of the regulatory apparatus that governs the criminal process. On the controversial subject of the prescription there are two opposing requirements, both deserving of protection: on the one hand, to avoid that the inefficiencies of justice allow to frustrate the prosecution of crimes through prescription; on the other hand, to avoid that the same inefficiencies are the cause of a penalization of the citizen, presumed innocent until final judgment, subjected to an endless trial, without obtaining a judgment that can ascertain his innocence or his guilt. It is true: you can always give up the prescription, but, with the extended times of the processes that arrive at abnormal, paradoxical situations, being subjected to judgment is certainly not irrelevant to the working, professional and family life of a citizen. Therefore, even renunciation of the prescription, after years in which perhaps the trial is on a dead track, is not an opportunity that the citizen can use to assert his innocence and thus obtain a sentence that recognizes his own condition (or at least the one that so boasts before the justice). The rules we introduce in this matter move within this furrow marked by the opposing requirements indicated, both - we repeat - worthy of being guaranteed. However, the reform of the criminal process delegated to the Government will allow a better protection for the right of the citizen to a fair trial, allowing him to fully exercise his right of defence, in certain times, without the prescription assuming, for good and evil, such an influential role as today's. In fact, as long as the prescription is at the centre of the debate and is used to try to enforce one or the other of the requirements mentioned, I believe that we will always be in a situation of serious difficulty and we will not be able to guarantee a fair process. The Government will have to undertake to evaluate some institutions and to have a profound impact on them. The very strong reform of the criminal trial that concerned the introduction of the figure of the gip and the preliminary hearing deeply modified. In fact, in it, together with the difficulties of personnel, resources, resources and instruments, there is a fundamental point that today makes the length of this phase unbearable for the citizen. I am referring essentially to the failure of the function of the preliminary hearing, which was to be an element of guarantee of judgment, of filter, in order to avoid going to trial with the hypothesis of crime not based on a sufficient apparatus of evidence. Today we are in a condition for which, at the end of the investigation phase, with a hypothesis of crime contested to the citizen, before arriving before the preliminary hearing can pass a huge, endless time. At the time when the preliminary hearing is fixed, the timing can be further expanded in an incredible way and, in the vast majority of cases (I would say almost all), in reality this hearing becomes a bureaucratic passage and not a guarantee for the citizen. In fact, it refers to judgment in almost all of the situations. In all this enormous time, already from the moment of the warning of the investigations, when the information is given to the public opinion, we have a whole series of passages: the closure of the investigations, the proposal of a hypothesis of contestation of crime, the arrival before the preliminary hearing and the referral to trial; therefore we have already had more pre-emptive sentences of conviction. What is then the actual seat of the trial, in which the parties, in front of a third jury, can assert their own reasons, today constitutes a real guarantee for the citizen because, thanks to God, through the judicial judge who exercises his function with professionalism, competence and balance, the citizen himself has the possibility to assert his own reasons. Before reaching only the first degree of judgment, however, he spends an incredible amount of time. Thinking of filling the injustice that occurs at this very long stage through recourse to the prescription institution would add further difficulties. Moreover, one cannot think of frustrating the prosecution of important crimes through the use of this instrument because it is worth the exact opposite. Here again the issue of the inefficiency of justice returns. Other institutions, on the other hand, may have worked: the figure of the gip represents objectively, at that stage, an element of guarantee and impartiality between the parties for which it is not everything to throw away. However, I believe that this set of rules that we are examining today is designed to improve justice for citizens and give them the opportunity to improve our judicial system. However, a fundamental part of the measure before us will be the delegation for the overall reform of the criminal process. Let us continue today with this passage in the reforming and modernising process of justice. Of course, this must not be separated from a decided change of course in terms of resources available to the system, otherwise reforms are likely to remain on paper. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u32	Mr President, we all agree, including public opinion and society, on the need to put in place a reform of justice, to update it and to adapt it. We all know how difficult it is, especially when we are in a context where different sensitivities are present, to agree with the political parties and to find a point of cohesion that inevitably is always on the rise. With the measure that we are discussing today we put another important piece to respond to the need for a reform of the justice machine in our country. This reform represents one of the most challenging challenges for this Government, for this majority and for the whole country. We know well how a series of malfunctions that concern precisely the justice machine are deeply connected with a series of malfunctions of the country system and the Italy system, which concern not only the issue of the greater protection of citizens' rights but the very functioning of our social system. They concern Italy's ability to be attractive compared, for example, to international investments; to be a country that functions by overcoming that wide range of evils that, from corruption to the most general lack of rules, to the inability to see in the judicial system an effective place of protection of the rights of the person, puts in crisis or represents an important limit compared to the fact that Italy is considered a reliable country according to new, modern, up-to-date, demanding criteria, and therefore a state of law in full regulation. The draft law we are examining is full-bodied and complex because it is the subject of examination and deep-seated is the work of reform that is to be approved. We would have to discuss this for months, given the extent and importance of the changes that are being made to criminal law, but I would like to briefly retrace the essential points of the measure. In the 40 articles we find rules on the extinction of the crime for remedial conduct, the reform of the prescription, the tightening of sanctions for serious and hateful crimes such as political-mafia electoral exchange, theft and robbery; moreover, rules are laid down for simplifying the criminal process and are assigned delegations to the Government for the reordering of the very delicate matter of interceptions and for the equally fundamental reform of the penitentiary order, inspired by the changes to the topic of repair justice. Finally, the chapter on the simplification of criminal procedures, to which Title II of the draft law is dedicated, is also not overlooked. The decision was then taken to suspend the limitation period by one year and six months after the first grade and the same after the appeal. In this regard, thanks to the work of the Commission, an important change was adopted in the Senate of the text that came to us from the House, reducing this time from two years to one year and six months; moreover, other changes have been made which have made it necessary to profuse a considerable commitment by the Senate Justice Commission with respect to the text approved by the House which honestly, even on our part, was certainly not welcome in its entirety. Therefore, on the subject of limitation, after the appeal the procedural requirement to have longer time limits for the judgment is satisfied and at the same time the guarantee nature of the institute is maintained. In summary, the prescription regime has remained liberal, balanced, as provided by the code of 1930, although with these correctives that determine the lengthening of the terms (upgradings due to the proliferation of these crimes in our time, which is different from that in which these norms were conceived) for the stages of appeal both in appeal and in Cassation, guaranteeing in any case the exhaustive respect of the principle of the reasonable duration of the trial. With regard to criminal proceedings, I should like to draw particular attention to the provision imposing certain time limits for the prosecution by the prosecutor with the involvement of the Attorney General in the appeal court. The latter will also have to ensure compliance with the provisions relating to the registration of the news of crime, with possible disciplinary illegality in case of violation of the same. As regards the delegation on interceptions, I would like to stress the importance attached to the principle of the confidentiality of communications and telephone conversations intercepted, in accordance with Article 15 of the Constitution; an article which, in truth, has recently been regularly violated, with the difficulties resulting from finding those responsible for such violations because there was no prior operation on the verification of interceptions, to understand what could be useful for procedural acts. Therefore, a guarantee of confidentiality has been introduced, which finally puts an end to a whole series of episodes that are absolutely collateral and have little to do with procedural acts, which relate more to the private life of the suspects or which are sometimes reduced to media phenomena of gossip. This certainly does not favor justice and the content of the process itself. From this point of view, the attention to the protection of interceptions against persons occasionally involved in the proceedings seems absolutely positive, even with respect to communications which are not relevant to criminal justice. Finally, even those who broadcast illegal wiretapping will be punished to damage the reputation of others. Finally, the Commission has had the merit of laying down precise and punctual guidance criteria for interceptions with computer receivers, the so-called Trojan virus, which has so far been used by investigators without precise rules, clearly questioning and testing every citizen's right to privacy. Of primary importance also appear some profiles of the delegation for the reform of the penitentiary order. I am referring to access to alternative measures and prison benefits, which are intended to facilitate usability. This is a very important delegation to the Government; here is our Undersecretary with delegation to the penitentiary system, who can only be satisfied with the delegation that we are preparing to confer to the Government in order above all to restore dignity and rules to the system, which, while still having to be punitive, must above all look at the rehabilitation phase of those who serve a sentence. I am referring, therefore, to the identification of remedial justice activities and to the increase and enhancement of employment and voluntary opportunities for prisoners, all understood as qualifying moments for the path of social recovery of the same. Very positive is also the importance attributed to the educational needs of minors and to the specific interventions in favour of women recluse and mothers inmates. The work in the Commission has been intense and it cannot be denied that there have been moments of live confrontation between the various political souls of the majority and oppositions. The discussion, however, has always been an opportunity to reach a point of understanding higher than the starting positions, finding shared solutions, which did not affect the effectiveness of the measures imagined. I therefore believe, Mr President, that this presentation has given great weight to the complexity of this measure, but also to the precise desire to reform parts of our system, which are absolutely important and decisive in order to give real effect to it and, above all, to guarantee the possibility of acting through the process, in such a way as to give certainty to the penalties and, above all, in a reasonable time. In this regard, Mrs Chiavaroli, this does not exempt us from having to give the structural funds to the judicial offices, so that the processes can be carried out faster and more effectively. Apart from the problems of prescription, which are problems of another nature, when justice in a civilized country works and manages to give sentences in a short time, this is also a spy of the efficiency of the system itself. But this cannot be done unless we give prosecutors, courts and judicial offices the appropriate facilities and men to function. There is therefore the precise will to go and reform these parts of our order, which are absolutely important and decisive in order to give real effectiveness to the same and above all to guarantee the possibility to act, through the process, in such a way as to give certainty to the penalties, but also a real possibility of recovery and rehabilitation through the prison system. I believe that all the measures taken within the draft law that we are debating today in this House represent a very significant fact. Then the debate in this House will certainly focus on some elements that deserve further study and probably bring with them the need to carry out further reflections, together with the Government. However, I believe that the completeness of this measure represents a point of reference within this legislature and that, also for the future of our country, this reform will help to give competitiveness to the country and certainties to the citizens, regardless of the role they play when they are subjected to a judicial process. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Zanda.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u33	Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u34	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today in this House - if the majority will allow the physiological debate on a rather complex text to take place - is undoubtedly a very complex measure, which affects many of the crucial points of criminal justice: from amendments to the penal code to those to the criminal procedure code, to the reforms of the penitentiary order, affecting matters such as the prescription of crimes (the subject that has been on the agenda for months on all the media), or (other hot topic) the delegation for the reform of interceptions. It would have led one to think that the endemic condition of inefficiency, almost decoction, of the criminal justice system has finally been remedied. But this is not the case; just think of the infamous reform of the prescription institution. The hard work that has been done in the Commission has given us a text on some unconstitutional aspects, but above all it has been detrimental to the fundamental right of citizens to obtain justice; a text on which I cannot fail to express grave doubts. There are many critical aspects that can be highlighted and that provide the amount of superficiality and approximation of the regulatory intervention that the majority want to sell as the decisive turning point. However, I would just like to focus on a few aspects which I consider to be of particular importance, not only legal, but also for the consequences in terms of effective protection of citizens' rights. I am thinking, for example, of the amendment by the rapporteurs which has reinstated the cessation of the operation of the limitation period after the judgment at first instance. This means that this judgment marks the maximum operating limit of the institute: in other words, after the judgment of first instance the criminal trial can, in abstract, last forever. This forecast, in addition to violating the principle of fair trial as set out in Article 111 of the Constitution, does not take into account any fundamental and unique data of judicial statistics, according to which the stage of preliminary investigations is the one in which about 70% of the prescriptions mature. However, the majority did not take any account of this. Among other things, the cessation of the operation of the limitation after the judgment at first instance, as I understand it, is not compatible with the successive provisions, which provide for its suspension to the deposit of the motivation of the judgment at first instance and, therefore, to the filing of the appeal judgment. In a nutshell: if the prescription ceases to operate after the judgment at first instance, what sense does it have to provide for its suspension at later stages? Thus conceived, the institution of limitation also violates the fundamental principle of presumption of innocence and the right of the community to know, as soon as possible, whether a defendant is guilty or innocent. On the contrary, I continue to believe that it is essential that the trials be concluded first of all in a short time and in any case with a judgment, whether of absolution or of condemnation, that it recognizes the innocence of the one who has been unjustly accused, or the guilt of those who have been held responsible. There is no need for me to stress that for each citizen the most serious penalty is inherent in the personal, family, social and economic consequences resulting from the incline of endless criminal trials. Such a system frustrates not only the rights of persons subject to criminal proceedings in the capacity of suspect or accused, but also those of the offended parties, which are also large absent in the considerations of the majority, which is self-promoting reformer. The offended party, like a stone guest, suffers the negative consequences of a far-reaching and contradictory legislative intervention. We're on the same page, you know. Is the evil rampant, does the thirst for justice and the legislator rise in public opinion? Abdica to its function, responds belly, just to offer warm cloths to the people ox and leaves once again margin of discretion to the work of the judiciary, if we even want to amplify it. Never a wide-ranging intervention: you always act in emergency and in shortness of breath. Now we no longer respond to the demands of justice, but to the commercials and we give show with endless verbal brawls, which obsessively divide guaranteed by forcaioli. From these brawls the legislator should be extraneous, haughty in its function and instead one gets down and gets dimmed. The result is these buffer measures, which often add up, year after year, on the same subject and end up mortifying result and function. I say this to the majority and I appeal to the legal sensitivity of the President of the Justice Commission, Senator D'Ascola: these are not and cannot be the method or the way. Better stop. I have already said this in this House: let us stop legislation, it would be much better. Let's try to see, that is, if five hundred years of legal history can still make present that Guicciardini of the "not bad" the sentences of the Turks, which were given at random and, because they were given in the dark, it happened that at least half of them could be right. Another aspect that I would like to highlight is that of the notorious rule that provides for the doubling of the limitation periods for an elite of crimes: corruption offences and satellite crimes, given the increases in penalties introduced by Law No 124 of 30 May 2015, become indefatigable. The reasons given in support of this doubling shall be indicated in the particular complexity of the investigations required. This complexity, with a good peace of mind of the principle of reasonableness, as set out in Article 3 of the Constitution, is not recognized to other crimes, equally serious and difficult to ascertain, however carried out to the detriment of the public administration. I would like to take another example of how the majority has worked well to deal with serious problems which have a major impact on the lives of citizens, in fact proposing discriminatory, meaningless, offensive solutions to a healthy sense, even before the fundamental principle of reasonableness set out in Article 3 of the Constitution, which I have repeatedly invoked. And I am referring to the choice of including the procedural prescription, instead of the substantive one, for the only manslaughter committed in violation of the rules on occupational prevention, safety and hygiene, which in this way enjoys an incomprehensiblely differentiated regime compared to the other hypothesis of manslaughter, for which the substantive prescription continues to apply. The same treatment has suffered some environmental crimes, even for which the procedural prescription has been introduced. In particular, I refer to the crimes of death or injury as a result of the crime of environmental pollution, environmental disaster, and harm done to the environment. Now, if it is clear that the ratio of the introduction of this provision stems from the desire to protect situations in which the event - of damage or danger - occurs at a distance from the consumption of the crime, it is equally true that, as proposed, the rule once again conflicts with the principle of reasonableness because of the arbitrary exclusion of other cases similar to those of which I have previously said. I could go on for a long time in the list of distractions of the majority, but the times require me to limit my speech to what has been said so far, in the hope that the majority, in a real democratic debate, free from preconceptions and logics of belonging, will take account of the amending proposals that I have tabled on behalf of my Group. Among the many, I would like to highlight those amendments aimed at putting a stop to the unlimited duration of the investigations, implemented through the system of extensions and the dilatory nature of the closing date of the preliminary investigations. The proposal of the Conservatives and Reformists intervenes precisely on this stage, the most critical of criminal proceedings, in which the constitutionally protected rights of the citizen suffer the most severe compression. We have done so through the introduction of the character of the peremptory nature of the term of conclusion of the investigations and the consequent sanction of the filing of office by the gip or at the request of the party whenever the proxy acts outside the terms so imposed peremptory. This, I believe, is respect for the rights of citizens, and I believe that respect for the principle and respect for the principles - let me say - there can be neither derogations nor terminations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Anitori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like briefly to retrace the events that have led to the formation of the draft law under discussion today. The Senate Justice Commission has begun the examination of the provision on prescription, already approved by the House on 24 March 2015 in different ways from those identified by the Council of Ministers, in the sessions of 9 April and 15 April 2015. At its meeting on 3 June 2015, the Senate Act 1844 was adopted as the basic text and the discussion on the amendments took place on 23 June. On 28 April of this year the Commission therefore decided to proceed to the joint discussion also of the reform of the penal code and the code of criminal procedure in order to improve the efficiency of the judicial system, already approved by the Chamber on 23 September 2015 (Act Senate 2067 and combined), for which some hearings were also held, with particular reference to the topic of interceptions. In the session of 4 May 2016, a new unified text was adopted, reproducing the contents of Acts 2067 and 1844. After an intensive amendment phase in the Justice Commission, the measure is composed of 40 articles and contains a number of important novelties with particular reference to three profiles. With regard to the penal code, I refer to the extinction of the crime for remedial conduct and the raising of penalties for crimes of political-mafia electoral exchange, theft and robbery. Compared to the Code of Criminal Procedure, I would like to stress the rules concerning the defendant's irreversible inability to participate in the trial, the stricter rules for the conduct of preliminary investigations and the filing procedure, and the simplification of appeals. With regard to the reform of the penitentiary system, the rules encouraging access to alternative measures and penitentiary benefits, increasing paid employment opportunities both inside and outside prison and voluntary activities are to be welcomed. In detail, I would like to highlight only a few points such as the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange. Article 3 refers again to Law No 62 of 2014, which extended the range of punishable facts (including acceptance of the promise of votes in exchange for the promise or the provision of money or other utility). The sanctioning framework is now being tightened, sanctioning the offence referred to in Article 416-b with the sentence of imprisonment from six to twelve years (instead of four to ten years). The measure also intervenes on the rules of limitation: after the judgment of conviction at first instance, the limitation period is suspended until the filing of the judgment of appeal, up to a maximum of one year and six months; after the judgment of conviction on appeal, the limitation period is suspended until the final judgment, always up to a maximum of one year and six months. This intervention combines, on the one hand, the right answers to ensure the celebration of trials, on the other hand, the guarantees that a citizen will not be held hostage by an inefficient and perverse judicial system for years and years. The measure also contains a detailed delegation to the Government for the revision of the subject of interceptions. Among the principles I would just like to mention the provisions to ensure the confidentiality of telephone and telematic communications and conversations which are intercepted; the introduction of a new criminal case for the dissemination of the content of audiovisual footage or recordings of fraudulent telephone conversations, captured with the aim of harming reputation; a specific restrictive discipline for interceptions of communications or conversations through so-called trojans (i.e. computer collectors). To conclude, I believe that we are faced with a full-bodied measure, necessarily complex given the extent and delicacy of the matters dealt with in a reformist key, but at the same time balanced and that it can bring rapid and concrete benefits to our justice system and, consequently, to all our fellow citizens and to the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u36	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u38	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, from the agencies we learn of an alleged withdrawal of amendments from those already tabled to draft law No 2067. We are in the formal impossibility of verifying this fact; in order to guarantee my right and that of any other member of this House to accept, if we consider it appropriate, the amendments withdrawn from those already published in the file since yesterday, I would like to see this formally established. If a withdrawal of amendments has already been proposed by my fellow promoters, or if, before the stage of their presentation, we were to be surprised to consider some of the amendments that have already been withdrawn without having the opportunity to make them their own or to add the signature, I would like it to appear in the minutes that we are willing to know or, in any case, to see guaranteed the possibility, until the stage of the presentation of the amendments begins, to adopt the amending proposals which may have been withdrawn. Mr President, I wanted to make this point so that it would remain in the minutes, in accordance with Rule 102 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, beyond the practice in these cases. If memory does not deceive me, it has already happened that in this House we have been discussing these ways of withdrawing amendments, which were done in a legitimate way, but at a non-transparent stage because we risk not allowing the other senators to be aware of the entire amending framework. It is clear that voting decisions on other amendments which have not been withdrawn may also depend on the actual overall picture of the amendments. I should therefore like to keep a record of this request made by me, i.e. whether amendments have already been withdrawn. In any case, I would ask that, before the beginning of the stage of illustration and then the subsequent vote on the amendments, the Presidency should list any amendments that may be withdrawn, in order to guarantee the rights to which I referred earlier.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u39	Senator Buccarella, of course, as you know, the report of the sitting is drawn up, not the minutes. What you have said will remain in the proceedings of the parliamentary proceedings here at eternity. On this point, therefore, nothing remains secret. As far as the news you have reported to us is concerned, you know more about it than the Presidency, which will assess, by getting to the point, what you have announced, what will happen, since we have no official news. The Presidency works on the basis of what happens, when it happens, in accordance with its procedures. Press announcements are obviously part of the debate. He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u40	Mr President, my speech is purely political because, from a technical point of view, the Senators and colleagues of the Group, Falanga and D'Anna, have already had the opportunity to enter into the matter and have largely justified our vote absolutely against this measure. Why do we want to highlight our position with my speech as a Parent Company? Because we are a Group born for reform. When these reforms are for the Italians, for development, or when it comes to constitutional reforms, we have always lent ourselves and we have always tried to help make it legal in this sense. But when you come to propose draft laws that are, clearly and lapalissianaly, special laws, which go against Articles 1.3 and 111 of the Constitution, we cannot stand. We cannot hear that, with Article 1 of the bill, there is recognition of the damage and that, if there is recognition, this leads to the extinction of the crime. This goes against the Constitution, and we cannot allow it to go against what is the first part of the Constitution, which we believe, at this time, is not modifiable. We realize that there are problems, because you will have seen, Mr President, that the rapporteur's desk is missing the President of the Commission justice every day and systematically. It has never happened that a President of the Commission did not sit on the floor of the rapporteurs. In all the draft laws that we have adopted in this legislature, but also in the previous ones, he has always been present. So it means that something is wrong if the President of the 2nd Commission is not present. Above all, in almost eleven years of parliamentary life, I have never seen the same Group have either the majority and minority rapporteur or the majority co-rapporteurs. And I have never seen the Holding Company sitting with the two rapporteurs at the bench, which averages between the two. The Democratic Party must reflect on this curtain, which certainly does not help to legislate in the sense of allowing the right process in safe times. Also because, even extending the terms of the prescription, of the two one: if the defendant is guilty, we leave him more free to criminals; if he is innocent, we keep him on the braziers for more years. We cannot understand why we want to intervene in such a drastic, clear and confused manner only on a part of this majority. It's a bit like a surgeon who works a tumor or a serious illness at some point decides to stop to resume surgery after a few hours because he doesn't want to get to the end of the operation in a certain and short time. You can't go on like this. We never took part in the quorum vote. It is now said that it is the agencies that dictate the pace of Parliament, so much so that we have learned from the agencies of the withdrawal of amendments, but we believe that surely if the majority or part of it wants to complete this measure, the final vote will provide for confidence. We will vote against trust and we will try to make the quorum also lacking; we will try by all means to show the Italians that the laws must be made in compliance with the articles of the Constitution and that the processes must be speeded up. That the criminal chambers are unanimously opposed to what we are doing says a lot: they are industry operators, lawyers, criminals, those who are involved in the right process, they are not criminals. Two and a half years ago we lifted the penalties from four to ten years for the political-mafia exchange. Now, after two and a half years, we want to raise the sentence from six to twelve years: we increase the minimum penalty of two years and the maximum penalty of two more. It seems to us that it is readivating in a confused way, because if two and a half years ago you had considered it right (we voted against even then) a sentence from a minimum of four years to a maximum of ten years, you do not understand why after just two and a half years you want to raise the sentence from six to twelve years. We simply continue to ride a justiceism driven by an anti-system populism at all costs, a justiceism which, especially in this House and in the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys, has been manifested on several occasions, lately with the complicity of the President of the Senate. A justiceism at all costs with which this measure puts its hand in the field of justice and addresses, as I have already said, the issue of limitation. For the umpteenth time, instead of worrying about producing measures to speed up judicial proceedings and to streamline procedures with a view to the efficiency of the system and of those involved in the sector, the foundations are laid for the endless processes, in the face of certain times and constitutional forecasts. But legal certainty and that of punishment do not go beyond the timing of justice. That is why we, Mr President, wanted to point out our no, our opposition. We have been available and will always be willing to make the reforms, but the ones that the country needs. We do not want to follow, rather we would like to introduce the crime of demagogy, because if we continue with demagogy we do not go anywhere.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u41	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these days we are examining what, in my opinion, can be considered one of the key measures of this legislature, which makes changes to the penal code, the code of criminal procedure and the penitentiary system. It is clear, therefore, that a rule resulting from a complex work by the Commission which, after its approval to the House of Deputies, has reviewed the text and has made considerable additions to it. In this context, I would like to focus on one of these essential additions: the regulation of the use of computer sensors. Captors are only hidden software that, once installed on the technological devices ( tablet, smartphone, personal computer) of an unconscious user, allow to perform a plurality of actions and to acquire different data, destined for the collection of tests in investigations. This investigative instrument, which has been used for some time by the law enforcement agencies and the judiciary, is indispensable for the fight against organised crime and international terrorism, which now base the management and implementation of their criminal activities on the use of increasingly sophisticated technologies. Discipline, for the first time, the use of this technology has, therefore, a dual purpose: on the one hand, to ensure an ever more effective and efficient use of this equipment at a distance in the fight against terrorism and organised crime; on the other hand, to ensure that this happens in compliance with the constitutional guarantees, with rules that specify the eligibility criteria and the methods of use. Indeed, as the rapporteur, Mr Casson, mentioned earlier - and I would like to thank him for the attention he has given to this particular subject - the nature of these technologies is such that, if not properly regulated, they would not leave a trace of the operations carried out, thus altering the genuine probativeness of their results and risk violating the limits of the court's authorization for preliminary investigations. It is also good to remember that the use of the pickers, allowing an extremely diversified series of operations, such as computer searches, geolocation, environmental, telephone and telematic interceptions, acquisition of traffic data, each potentially subject to a specific discipline, goes to touch multiple legal areas interconnected. The fact that a judgment of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation has already intervened shows that the investigations and criminal processes based on the use of the captors, in the absence of a specific regulatory reference, had led to insatiable conflicts requiring the intervention of the United Chambers. Therefore, the importance of the inclusion in the measure under consideration of Article 35, containing the delegation aimed at regulating the conduct of interceptive operations by means of a computer receiver, emerges. In setting conditions, terms and guarantees for the protection of investigative needs, this Article establishes a set of criteria which are capable of safeguarding the right of defence and of opposing the evidence and, therefore, the rights of the accused and the defence as a whole. However, with specific reference to this latter aspect, I believe it is essential to take advantage of the opportunity to move to the House in order to make the guaranteeing scope of the provisions contained in the delegation more robust. I am referring in particular to the need to strengthen the measures that totally eliminate the possibility to delegate the material execution of such operations to private companies producing spy software, incontrovertibly clarifying that the use of the pickers is allowed only under the direct responsibility of the judicial authority and with the supervision of the judicial police, in strict respect of the limits established by the decree of the court authorization. It should also be specified that the transfer of registrations can only be made to the proxy server or other servers placed under the direct control of the judicial police, ensuring that at the end of the registration the receiver is disabled, uninstalled and rendered permanently unusable on the indication of the judicial police staff. The commentary article, although in its punctuality, does not take into account certain aspects which, in my opinion, could be decisive in ensuring the efficient and fair use of the pickers, i.e. the establishment of a national register of pickers and the simultaneous identification of a process of type-approval of the pickers authorised for use and present on the market, as well as the related verification systems. Measures that would consolidate the impartiality and secrecy of the procedures, ensuring, for example, that only computer programs complying with legal technical requirements are used, so as to ensure that both the installation and the decommissioning of the receiver does not adversely affect the computer data and evidence stored on the devices in which it is inserted, and that this program is limited to carrying out the operations expressly provided for by the court's decree. Moreover, the current wording of the article does not provide that, at the end of the investigations, the defence is granted the right to obtain the documentation relating to all operations carried out by pickers, from the installation until their removal, and the possibility to ask the judge to verify that the picker used complies with the requirements of the legislation in force. Finally, I am of the opinion that the delegation should provide for the possibility of drawing up, at the implementation stage, a specific discipline for crimes for terrorism purposes, including international, and for crimes attempted or consumed by criminal associations, with specific reference to the crimes provided for in Articles 600, 601, 602, 416 -bis and 630 of the Criminal Code, in view of their particular gravity. Finally, I would like to reiterate the hope that the passage to this House will help to further improve the excellent work carried out by the Commission and the rapporteurs, by making changes such as those I have presented so far, in order to effectively guarantee the rights of all the parties involved without undermining or restricting the possibilities for intervention of the law enforcement agencies and the judiciary.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u43	Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u44	I inform you that, as already communicated to the parliamentary groups on the short lines, at the question time session tomorrow at 4 p.m., the Minister for Economic Development, Dr Carlo Calenda, will answer questions on the following topics: interventions to promote investment in support of innovation and competitiveness of the Italian industrial system; evolution of international negotiations on trade and attraction of foreign investments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u47	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for Health to answer some of the questions that I have asked about AIFA: 3-03117, 4-06214 and the last, but not least, 4-06372, which was delivered today and relates to hepatitis C therapy. There is a drug, Sovaldi, distributed in Italy by Gilead, which can heal about two million patients with this disease in Italy. It's a miracle drug. Healing therapy costs about 40,000 euros. I realized, during a visit to Egypt, that the same drug as the same pharmaceutical company, and the same treatment, in that country cost 800 euros. In Italy the price is 40,000 euros, determined by AIFA through a private negotiation, secreted. There is therefore a therapeutic tourism of Italian citizens who go to treatment in Egypt because the drug is the same, the box is the same and the active substance is the same. In Italy it costs 40,000 euros, in Egypt about 900 dollars that correspond to 815 euros. I do not say that in India the same drug costs 100 euros because in that country the same manufacturer gave it to a pharmaceutical company that produces generic drugs. I believe, Mr President, that the Minister does not know this reality: the cost of healing all patients with hepatitis C would be 60 billion while if the drug was purchased in Egypt, it would cost less than one billion. Something's not working, and I believe that the control of AIFA and the Ministry has a huge flaw. Given that it is a matter of citizens' health, however, I invite you to ask the Minister to come and answer the three questions that I have tabled over the last month on AIFA.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u50	IDEM (PD). Mr President, with this intervention I continue today in the Senate a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man who is or has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. In the night between 18 and 19 September in Ravenna was found, in the basement of a family property, the body of Giulia Ballestri, forty years old, beaten to death; for the murder was stopped her husband, a well-known dermatologist of Ravenna, against whom serious clues of guilt hang. This fact confirms that feminicides are not only consumed in a certain social class, but are cultural phenomena that reflect a conception of man's possession and power towards women. Giulia is the eleventh woman we have remembered so far in this relay started only on June 30. ISTAT informs us that in Italy every 2.2 days a woman is killed, that 47.3 percent of the women killed die at the hands of the partner; that the severity of sexual and physical violence has increased; that also cases of assisted violence are growing. Femicide is almost always the ultimate result of a series of long-standing violent behaviors. With Law 119 of 2013 to combat gender violence, which this Parliament approved in implementation of the Istanbul Convention, our country has recognised violence against women as a violation of human rights and gender discrimination; it has recognised that violence against women is a social phenomenon that has its roots in the relationship of asymmetrical power between men and women, so it can be prevented by intervening on the factors that determine it. That is why a plan against violence against women has been proposed and approved and, in the meantime, the instruments of protection to ensure greater safety for women under threat have been strengthened. However, it is necessary to monitor that these measures work and that the plan is implemented. We propose again and with conviction our appeal to the Minister for Equal Opportunities and to the Government everything: the directing booth, which met for the first time on September 8 last, monitors the application, the merits and the limits of Law No. 119 of 2013 and, above all, give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. I also appeal to the media to stop justifying murderers and to blame women. Finally, I make an appeal to the country, men and women: there are 160 women killed every year; we can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u51	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-683.ana.u52	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 22 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.30 p.m.
