ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 21 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u10	AMATI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every year Memory Day requires us not only to remember the events that have taken place, but above all to fully assess our ability to follow the words of the facts and, as far as this place is concerned, the acts of our competence. It remains inconceivable that more than seventy years after the demolition of the Auschwitz gates we continue to witness phenomena of racial and xenophobic discrimination, incitement to hatred, anti-Semitism; phenomena that shake the political and legal foundations of the pact that arose after the Second World War: the unconditional rejection of Nazi horrors. When the supreme commander of the Allied forces Eisenhower met with the victims of the concentration camps, he ordered that photos be taken, that the inhabitants of the cities near the camps be accompanied and that the dead be buried. He wanted documents to remain, testimony to be recorded, because one day someone could argue that those horrors never happened. Italy, with Law No 211 of 2000, established the Day of Memory in the date of liberation of Auschwitz in order to recall the Shoah (...), racial laws, the Italian persecution of Jewish citizens, the Italians who have suffered deportation, imprisonment, death, as well as those who, even in different camps and camps, have opposed the plan of extermination, and at the risk of their lives have saved other lives and protected the persecuted (...) so that such events can never happen again. Unfortunately, the germs of anti-Semitism and racism are still here, potentially fertile, and are manifested with worrying recrudescences, which cannot and must not leave us indifferent. I am thinking of the gathering of the extreme right European groups that was held last Sunday in Milan, a city gold medal for the Resistance; a gathering that raised strong protests and organized, in open challenge, near the date dedicated to the Day of Memory, by the coordination of the extreme right Alliance for Peace and Freedom, a name of fantasy in my opinion, which brings together European formations of matrix and neo-fascist and anti-Semitic inspiration, such as Forza Nuova and Alba Dorata. I remember that only a year ago the criminal court of Rome issued a sentence of condemnation for the reconstitution of the dissolved fascist party, an association for criminals and apology of fascism against the representatives of the Militia movement, which between 2008 and 2011 targeted the Jewish community and some representatives of the Roman institutions. In addition to the penalty, the sentence provided for the compensation of 7,128 euros requested by the Jewish community of Rome, a symbolic figure to remember the 7,128 victims of the Italian Shoah, a figure that will be donated to the oncology department of the Gemelli polyclinic in Rome. These and other well-known and recent facts cannot be underestimated, together with the inaccessible proliferation of anti-Semitic sites. That is why I have tabled a draft law with other colleagues - many of whom have signed it, including Senator Malan as the second signatory - on the issue of the fight and repression of negationism. As the European Court of Human Rights also emphasized, the objective of the negationists is a well-known racist, xenophobic and anti-Semitic objective, namely to rehabilitate the national socialist regime and, therefore, to accuse the same victims of falsifying history. The attack on memory is confirmed and I would like to recall the words of the President of UCEI, Renzo Gattegna, on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the raking of the ghetto of Rome: "Despite everything there are still new Nazis and fascists in Europe and the world who proudly claim the moral heritage of those criminals. The Nazis were murderers of human beings, their followers of today are murderers of memory. I hope, therefore, that the draft law, which was adopted a year ago in the Senate and then in the House, will be concluded as soon as possible and that today we are in the Justice Commission. By introducing the crime of negationism we will repair to a very limited extent the shame of that Parliament that I will pass the racial laws of 1938, actually respecting the memory of the Shoah. It is also necessary to adapt more than five years later to the European Union Framework Decision on combating certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia through the use of criminal law instruments. In his book "Sonderkommando Auschwitz" Shlomo Venezia writes: "Everything takes me back to the camp. Whatever I do, whatever I see, my spirit always returns to the same place (...). You never really get out of the crematorium. To him I dedicate these few words and the commitment to work so that our democratic institutions can always equip themselves with the necessary and useful instruments to at least fulfil the commitments made. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u13	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to join in the words of Senator Amati, with whom, as a second signatory, I have signed the bill to which the Senator has referred. We are at a time when it would be important to approve this measure, not only for the date of 27 January, but for what we see around. In France there are those who, part of the authorities, suggested to the Jews not to bring the kippah that makes them recognizable, as well as some traditional clothes made recognizable that Jew in Milan who was stabbed a few months ago. So we are not talking about events that happened 71 years ago (and those that have ended), but about events of these times that, for example, drive many French Jews, much more numerous than in Italy, to consider the fact of going or "going up" - as they say - in Israel not a forced choice (that many others have made) but a way to be, almost ironically, safer; a country, Israel, which is subject every day to attacks, but about which we are talking only about the reactions to the attacks and not about the attacks themselves: stabbings or missiles that come from surrounding areas. I would like to add a few words to this, because, at the beginning of the House's work, we have a few minutes and I do not want to prolong or deepen: much has been said about Rouhani's visit, as well as the controversy over the story of the statues, but I remember that Rouhani is the President of Iran, even if not the Supreme Authority (the Supreme Authority is the so-called spiritual leader, Ali Khamenei), but both he and Khamenei have repeatedly reiterated the need and the imminence of the annihilation of the State of Israel. Now, one cannot pretend that the State of Israel is something different from the Jewish people. It doesn't include everything, but it's certainly part of it. The fact that on the occasion of Memory Day there was this visit seems serious. I am not aware that the question has been raised - the memory of Memory Day remains, however - of a law that puts in writing that denying what happened is like trying to repeat it again. That's what this means to someone. I remember one last thing: again this year, for the third consecutive year, in Tehran there will be a review of the cartoon on the Holocaust, supported by the state authorities, where the theme is obviously the denial of the Shoah and where the strong piece are Jews who put on a movie set to depict Auschwitz. That should tell us something. We are not talking about madness or people who deny that the earth is round, but about facts and real people who should be well involved because, even in this House, at the time, even if with a very different set-up, the infamous racial or, rather, racist laws were passed. Let us remember that, as a whole, the Italian authorities have been responsible for an enormous number of deaths that have occurred in other countries, but the infamy is the same and we remember that, when the Jews were put out of universities, schools, teaching and every public service, there is no news of anyone who gave up because the chair had arrived at him in this way. They are all facts that can be understood in that context, but they must neither be approved nor forgotten. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Fabbri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u16	MORRA (M5S). Colleagues, we can only associate ourselves with the data of memory, knowing that too many times memory is not enough. It is necessary to accompany the reflection to memory because, too many times, those who have been victims have become executioners. Therefore, the hope that as a member of the 5 Star Movement Group I feel to address all peacemakers is that, as has been repeated several times, since the seduction of the banality of evil is always around the corner, justice can be done at 360 degrees and, if I may afford, even abounding with a few degrees more because in some cases it is better to abound rather than not to do so. And this is because what we remember today, having as victims not only the Jews but also other categories on which the ideological and stupid fury has become fierce, does not have to renew itself on other human categories that perhaps in that case were not victims, but that are today. Therefore, the invitation is universal. We are engaged in policies of 360 degrees of listening, understanding and tolerance. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u19	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am speaking only to associate my and my Group's words with what we have heard and which Senator Amati said in particular, but also the other colleague and Senator Morra. From our point of view, it is not simply a matter of honouring this day with a memory of the past, which is essential and decisive because a people who have no memory obviously cannot even look at future challenges. But above all it is - if I can use this expression - to cleanse the present and the future from the poisons of intolerance. The one who said it is right: the banality of evil is always the black hole in which one risks constantly falling and, from this point of view, the exercise of memory really becomes an absolute duty. We cannot fail to see and remember that today anti-Semitism, more than yesterday, circulates strongly throughout the whole European continent, penetrates public opinion, gathers elements of fanaticism and becomes a real official language, even parts of the ruling class. A few years ago the revisionist thought had difficulty putting a presence on the ground, lived underground and had difficulty building a rhetoric; today instead the stage and the audience that is likely to create, because of course the social crisis accentuates these elements, are for us a very strong alarm bell. It is precisely for this reason that remembering Auschwitz, the extermination of the Jews and the things that happened at the probably darkest moment in the history of the globe is not a useful exercise simply in memory, it is not a thing that simply concerns the past, but it is first and foremost an extraordinary warning for the present and for the future. I believe that this is the way to live and that we would like to interpret it, of course, together with all our colleagues in this House. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u22	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. It is evident that on Memory Day, remembering the Shoah, it seems that every word loses sense or meaning, because every word is inadequate, improper and inconsistent with the tragedy that happened many years ago and that, in different forms and others, but all in line, still presents itself today in various other parts of the world. Memory means not only to become more aware of what is happening in the world today, but also to treasure and decline the community in terms of freedom, equality and respect for fundamental rights. It may not be ritual at this time, but I must draw the attention of all of us to what was decided a few hours ago in Denmark. I find the decision to retain the property of asylum seekers in order to contribute to the costs of their maintenance and accommodation a certainly worrying fact and a solution that I would like to call unfair, unjust and that could open the door to equally surreal decisions. A sovereign state cannot behave like the nations from which refugees escape, demeaning them, vexing them and confiscating their assets, in addition to holding them with a truly impressive discretion. This seems to me to be a choice, ladies and gentlemen, which runs counter to the principles of human and political solidarity which must govern relations between men and states; a choice which we could call a vulnus and an offense to the European Parliament. This choice has been made by one of the richest and most democratic states in Europe, by one of those States which is considered as a model for the recognition of rights and, even more so, those which are best placed as fundamental rights. One appeal which I personally, on behalf of my Group, would like to make to this House is that the European Community should take concrete steps to prevent these choices and recover the genuine spirit of the Union. In short, it is not by restoring the insurmountability of borders and presumptuously using refugees that the European Union will be able to face this difficult historical passage. It is only in this way, even in the evident diversity of situations, that we can redefine those fundamental principles of common living and the common good that are recognized in terms of equity, justice and sharing of fundamental values. [[Applause from the Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u25	COMPAGNA (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Mr President, frankly, in due course, the memory of Memory Day was intended to indicate the particularity, a kind of declaration of ir sincerity of what had happened in the Shoah. With respect to those good intentions, memory has lost of rituality; the theme, also of our interventions, tends to widen and to fade in the general. This should not be the case and I think it was good for the colleague who, if not for Italy of Europe, was distressed by the breath of anti-Semitism coming from Paris: France invites the Jewish community not to use the kippah; France, the country of the droit de l'homme, the country of l'affaire Dreyfus, seems to have chosen the path of hypocrisy. Unfortunately, our country is not immune from all this. Mrs Amati, perhaps fittingly, said that she was concerned about a meeting of European ultra-radestra forces in Milan in recent days, seems peacefully. And then, in the same spirit, allow others to express not their own concern, but their own indignation and disgust for what happened yesterday in our country: President Rouhani, anything but a moderate, judging by the pervicacy with which he claims for his country the right to nuclear power and at the same time the right to anti-Semitism, was welcomed with a frankly disgusting servility. I go far beyond the ridiculous episode of the statues, but by the official representatives of our country (the Head of State, Presidents of the Senate and the House, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, except the President of the Council who has anchored himself to an expression that is far too nuanced, that is, the distance between Italy and Iran in the matter of human right) has continued in that line of diplomatic celebration of the Day of Memory, but, it must be said, in a vile and hypocritical manner. Not the right to nuclear power, but the right to nuclear power in conjunction with the right to anti-Semitism, was negotiated until the day before yesterday. The willing Commissioner Mogherini is even proud of this on behalf of Europe, without Europe having had a specific role to play in the agreement which - says President Obama - would have had the merit of stealing Iran from its isolation. But if Iran wants to be anti-Semitism and President Rouhani's interviews are repulsive from this point of view, Europe must isolate anti-Semitism. That fact which Mr Malan has given us, the great national competition of atomic turbans continues; again this year the best cartoon of anti-Semitism has been awarded. From this point of view, we would have preferred that our Minister for Foreign Affairs had used words other than those of glory and regret, always legitimate, for the ancient founder president of the National Oil and Gas Authority. Business is business, they have an area of autonomy; but the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Italian Republic, on the eve of Memory Day, could find words less inappropriate than those of claiming esteem and trust to the well-deserved National Oil and Gas Authority, without ever pointing out - or at least noting it with a discretion that does not honor it - how the right to anti-Semitism cannot be recognized in our country. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, Ppi, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and Senator Tremonti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u28	D'ANNA (AL-A). Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party obviously supports the memory of this day, which calls to mind the human tragedy that has devastated Europe with the massacre and deportation of millions of Jews. We must, however, rather than make a gesture of mere remembrance, avoid moving to another excess, reminding us that between the sublime and the ridiculous often there is only one step. I think it is exaggerated even to prevent, through a law, the denial of a historical fact, which is sanctioned by history, and which does not belong to us, through the imposition of a sanction, to want to assert or pursue. Instead of Parliament and politics, it is up to us to strive to ensure that the contexts are such as not to be able to generate even in this century the massacres that totalitarianism (communism, fascism, nationalism) produced in the last century. Therefore, I find it doubtful when we receive the Iranian President, who, one day yes and the other also, continues to say that the meaning and purpose of the revolution of the Ayatollahs is the suppression of the State of Israel. I believe that coming here to expose laws that seek to sanction those who deny the Holocaust is in open contradiction with the reception of the Iranian President, who makes the suppression of the State of Israel the essence of his policy. You see, ladies and gentlemen, there are two things that deserve seriousness: pain and grief to the pain itself. Therefore, rather than geremy or production of other paper, in terms of legislative proposals to be entrusted to the devouring criticism of mice in the attics of the Senate, it would have been good if someone had reminded Rouhani that the State of Israel, like all other states, has the right to live, just as they have the right not to be persecuted, offended and marginalized by the international context Jews because of their faith. To reiterate, therefore, a criticism of a contradictory attitude, which the Italian Government put in place no later than yesterday, I believe it is the best commemoration that can be made of this tragedy of history that comes from compromises, because business is business, as Gentiloni says. These were the considerations of Neville Chamberlain, when no one was willing to die for Gdansk, when the Germans militarily occupied that region. From here came everything we know, including the Jewish massacre. There is therefore an assonance between our saying and our doing: yesterday we did not write a nice page, welcoming this gentleman, without reproaching him for wanting to suppress the Jews and the State of Israel. It will not, therefore, serve the redundancy of our condolences and our remembrance to cancel this false step taken by Italian foreign policy, not later than yesterday. [[Applause from the AL-A Group and Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u31	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to see this commemoration as a rhetorical exercise to pay homage to that 27 January 1945, which marked one of the saddest and darkest pages in human history. I take a red thread, which unites the deep sense of the speeches I have heard so far, which, for depth, for breadth, but also for their intrinsic value, bear witness to the extraordinary meaning of this day, which cannot only be commemorative, but must be a day of reflection, which allows us to recover the warning of Primo Levi, so if we understand it is impossible, to know it is necessary to know. It is necessary to know the dynamics of a history that has mortified, cracked, humiliated the democracy and history of a civil country and a community and that, today, we must recover as testimony, as an ability to decline in a more coherent way the values of solidarity, equality and freedom, which are cornerstones and milestones of our Constitution and of a completed democracy. To do so means to get out of the rites and formalisms, it means to decline it in the daily and in the exercise of the roles of institutional representation, which take place even at times when the protocol, dictated by diplomacy, requires us to welcome, with particular regard, guests and Heads of State. This means, for example yesterday, welcoming the President of Iran with an attitude of hospitality, but not with an attitude of subjection and acceptance of a serious, very serious reproposition that is being transformed into a real offense, for what has been said. In this respect, I would like to give this House a message of solidarity with the people and the State of Israel. I believe, therefore, that today serves to know, but also not to lose the memory and meaning of an event that has upset the history of humanity. Of that history we must recover the strong reasons, in order to affirm daily the centrality and value of freedom, equality and tolerance, as milestones in the construction of democracy, which we must defend every day, even in the exercise of their respective institutional roles. I believe that this is the best way to honor memory and hand over to those who come after us the moral will of a black page that must never happen again. [[Applause from Senators Comrade and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u34	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, the Group of the North Legacy intends to take part in the celebration of this important Memory Day, with the institution of which we have established that we do not want to forget the greatest tragedy that marked the history of the last century. However, the Northern League Group would also like to give a different signal. Perhaps it is not enough to remember (also because, if so, days like this would only have a sense of remembrance) because if history teaches something, it does so so that the teaching is projected in the future and that the tragedy that has occurred is found some antidote so that similar phenomena do not repeat themselves. To us it seems that the spirit of 1946, which animated and led to give a homeland to a people who were martyred, has today changed somewhat. Undoubtedly, the air of the last century is no longer alive and breathed. It is inevitable that tensions and frictions arise when two peoples find themselves having to live together in the same territory. Palestine is still an unresolved node: if in 1946 everyone assumed that it was a sovereign territory, entrusted to the Jewish people, today we see how disputed that area is and how, after seventy years, two peoples are still far from finding a formula of peaceful coexistence. In all situations where two populations and two different ethnic groups are forced to live together, there are problems. Our military personnel have been presiding over Kosovo for fourteen years and, to date, we cannot say that this area can be demilitarised by the United Nations because there would be a new ethnic cleansing. Fourteen years have not been used to stabilize the coexistence between the Serbian-kosovara population and the Albanian-kosovara population. In the same way, as this is a very topical issue, the situation in Crimea is under the spotlight. Also in Crimea a Ukrainian statutory component and a component of the Russian royal population have different opinions on how to manage and manage the territories and their own history. Several speeches in this House raised the question of this regurgitation of anti-Semitism. I would say that we must not neglect the direct threats that Israel continues to receive. It is not enough to remember that moment in history, as we should remember how important Israel is for the stability of the whole Mediterranean and the Middle East area, also in the light of fundamentalisms, linked to religious radicalisms, which are currently creating many problems throughout the world. For this reason, let us not forget the role Israel has and must have in this new phase of stability and reconciliation in that great area so important to us too. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u37	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I thank Senator Amati for remembering this Memory Day, which we all wanted together. Today I do not want to remember the problems of geopolitics or geoeconomy: we will have other moments to reason on the political and economic problems of the world chessboard. Today I'm interested in being able to say that what happened can happen every day, and it happens every day. Because it is the fear of the different that makes the heart of the bad man, terribly bad, and that wants him with violence to suppress. Levi remembered that if we could, or were to relive, those sufferings, none of us could live. I don't know what that could mean. I don't even want to imagine how all those people who were branded with fire, who had identification numbers on their skin, and who every day, every hour, every minute of their day remembered the horror of that experience. But the horror of that experience is man's wickedness; it is man's cruelty; it is becoming greater than the other. And we want to remember that not only Jews have been killed, but also Jehovah's Witnesses, homosexuals, people with mental and physical disabilities. Because everything that was different, everything that was unclean, everything that caused scandal had to be eliminated. This smallness of man, this need to become great, almighty, we have inherent in us and it is what we must be careful about. This, then, is not just a day of memory: it is a day of remembrance, but also a day that must change our heart and our culture; and not only today, not only in this House, not just at this moment. We must be alert to our most terrible urges, to what our hard and bizarre heart can say. Because the other one is today, he's here, he's everywhere. How are we going to tell our children those pages? How can we ask our children not to be sucked into that terror, into that black hole? How can we change our hearts? That is not just politics. We do it together, with culture, in remembering, in not forgetting, in being attentive, always and anyway, to everything we say, to how we lean towards the other. The breaking thread is always around the corner, because often and willingly man's claim to become God makes us, our actions and our attitudes truly blind. Never like today, then, all together we must also be able to moderate our attitudes and words. The suffering of then can also be the suffering of today. The suffering of then is a warning not to fall into today's suffering. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u38	The Presidency supports the remembrance and words that have been expressed in this House and thanks all the colleagues who have spoken them.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u39	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the representative of the Istituto comprensivo "Don Milani" of Terracina, in the province of Latina, who is attending our work in the first-class forums. [[Applause.]] I also greet the representative of the Istituto comprensivo "Parco della Vittoria" in Rome, who is attending our work in the second-order forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u40	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2195, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report, the general discussion took place, a proposal was rejected not to move on to the examination of the articles and an examination took place of the amendments and agendas relating to the articles of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u43	ZIZA (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are nine against zero. Yes, in five years we have had nine decree-laws on the ILVA issue and zero results. To date, a concrete resolution appears very far away. The ninth decree-law saves ILVA, today under discussion in this House, is only the last attempt, in my opinion bankrupt, of this Government that - let me be honest - has already demonstrated on other occasions a certain and rare ability not to bring home satisfactory results, while selling them in its commercials as the only salvation for the country. Public opinion has now also understood the Commission's game, but it must not waste time on such an important problem. We must take a step back to understand how the various successive governments, of whatever political color, have failed to resolve the ILVA issue. We would, however, like to recall the words of the current President of the Council, when he stated at his inauguration that a change of pace was necessary, because that was not the way forward. In fact, we're back. With all his innovative ideas, those that should have made us take a step forward, the Premier has only demonstrated a policy of failure, which has bent and adapted to the measures of the judiciary, without being able to boast and honor of own governmental measures, leading to failure also the management of the company commissioner. However, let us try to analyse the various phases that have characterized the pseudo-virtuous strategy of the majority. We started from the idea of passing the ILVA package, as several journalists in the press, in the hands of a group of private individuals, to hear us say immediately after by the head of the Executive that the ILVA would pass under extraordinary administration therefore through a new nationalization of the industry that has expropriated the Riva family, still majority shareholder. We then came to the idea of setting up a public-owned public-sector company through the Deposit and Loan Fund and also open to funds from private individuals and institutional investors. To date, however, nothing has happened! This is also because on the financial front the decree-law of then (one of the many) presented by the Government was very weak. The main investment, in fact, should have been 2 billion, of which 1,2 billion seized from the family shareholder of the steel mill. The government, with great lightness, had thought that the money would be immediately available, but it did not bother to think that these funds were still blocked in Switzerland, nor the opinion of the magistrates. Of course, Renzi did not take into account the fact that at the same time the long-awaited expectation of all those suppliers and customers who had provided their service for the ILVA before the police station was extended. In order to safeguard the creditors of this company, we have tabled amendments aimed at protecting precisely those who were penalized by Decree-Law No 1 of 2015 and who, above all, failed to obtain their claims, which were included in the competition procedure. There are too many aspects considered superficially by the Government. We are talking, for example, about the burning problem of the employment protection of Ilva. We have tabled a targeted amendment aimed at protecting the occupational levels of workers in the establishment by providing for extraordinary measures that the government could take: we are talking about social shock absorbers by way of derogation and incentives for early retirement. However, the errors of this Government have continued over time. In fact, the urgent need to intervene in the rescue of an increasingly red factory has led the latter Executive to proceed in a rash and qualunquistic manner. This is until, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission has instructed a dossier on the case, reserving the possibility to open an investigation for State aid against Ilva, with the effect of making Italy incur heavy penalties for the failure to secure, clean up and environmentalize the company. In this regard, our Group had tabled an amendment aimed at providing the Government, in compliance with national and Community legislation in the sector, for funding under the financial plan submitted to the buyer, for measures aimed at reducing CO2 emissions in order to meet the urgent need for a transition to a sustainable economy. I conclude by pointing out that the entire strategy put in place by the Government has been a total failure that has led us to a bitter defeat for the workers of the steel works and for all the tarantinos who still expect answers and solutions today. In the confusion and general embarrassment the Government has thought well to run to the shelters throwing down another, the ninth precisely and perhaps not even last, decree saves ILVA. For this reason and for many others, the Group of Conservatives and Reformists will vote strongly against this measure. [[Applause from the CoR and FI-Pdl XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u46	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, ILVA is, to say the least, a dramatic story involving the parliamentary classrooms since the last parliamentary term and which the technical government apparently has not been able to deal with and resolve with the necessary concreteness. The ILVA affair has, above all, brought out the fragility of our administrative system of intervention in environmental and industrial policy issues. The lack of clarity on the roles and competences of the institutional bodies interested in the environmental rehabilitation and redevelopment of the territory of Taranto has fueled a series of criminal and administrative procedures, with counters that the Government has only sketched out and that have turned out to be even ineffective to date, creating uncertainties that do not only concern the ILVA of Taranto, but the entire Italian industrial system. This was mainly because it enabled the judicial authority to intervene on issues which clearly fall within the remit of the environmental authorities and the Community directives. We, as a Group of the North League, believe that the reliability and credibility of our country towards foreign investors has been challenged. The citizens of Taranto pay the irresponsibility of the entrepreneurial and industrial class of the past and the irresponsibility of the local administrative class that has so far closed its eyes to the health and environmental problem. Mr President, environmental and health problems are even more serious if we think that in the same situation of environmental and health emergency in Taranto there are also 57 other sites of national interest (SIN), mostly located in the North of the country, to which the Government must intervene with concrete answers, to protect the health of the citizens. The purpose of this Decree-Law is to ensure that ILVA is kept in business. In order to protect the socio-economic and occupational fabric of the territory of Taranto, of all the induced related to it and guaranteeing at the same time the environmental protection, the Government cannot consider to resolve the problems through an acceleration of the procedure of transfer of the company. The government has not been able to find a definitive solution. Yet, Mr President, we are at the ninth urgent measure adopted to deal with the emergency of the ILVA in Taranto and it will certainly not be the last one, since the ILVA crisis, apparently, is not in the process of being resolved at all. The nine measures have only created a flood of commissioners, sub-commissaries and second-level figures that have solved nothing. All decree-laws were adopted in response to emergency situations, resulting from legal measures or environmental crises, without a comprehensive view of the needs of the industrial sector and without a strategic policy of the sector. I would like to remind you that the President-in-Office of the Council already stated in the government's inauguration speech that there will be a sort of industrial plan for individual sectors in the work plan that we are presenting in March and that we are talking about March two years ago. We do not know that the Government has up to now adopted an industrial plan for the revival of strategic sectors of the Italian economy such as steel, energy, oil extraction and manufacturing, of which we could boast of being, until recently, one of the world powers. This lack has not only had an impact on ILVA, but has helped to exacerbate the economic crisis situation in this country. Parliament has recently been involved in the resolution of emerging problems related to various production activities on the ground. I always say this: this government has only done funerals to companies; I have not seen a baptism, Mr President. Despite the lack of a structured policy by sector, our companies continue to represent excellence all over the world! It's okay if we have any surprises when we go see who the actual owners are and where they pay their taxes. The situation is dramatic, but did the government realize that? Were you aware of the huge mistake that was made when the ILVA was expropriated with the police station? You forced your hand and then made one mistake after another, cascaded. If we want to safeguard the country's industrial heritage we must change logic: abandon the path of emergency and welfare interventions and aim for a serious industrial policy. This is not the way to intervene, to operate, let alone to plan the industrial future of a territory that already has serious employment problems. I remember the figures published a few days ago on youth unemployment are dramatic, especially in these southern territories. The Northern League has always opposed the excessive use of urgent decrees. Mr President, we have not only done so with Ilva; we are now doing so systematically for all the measures that come into this House and, again, the various successive decree-laws have not shown that they can find definitive solutions for the establishment in Taranto. Mr President, we will also try to be extremely realistic. We have tabled six amendments and three agendas. This says a lot about the attention we have placed on a specific sector affected by the measures of the decree-law. We realize that the cessation of the activity of the Ilva of Taranto would have an absolutely negative effect for the occupation. It would cause serious damage not only to the socio-economic fabric of the territory of Taranto, but also to the factories connected to it. The factory in Taranto is the only one where hot steel is worked and that supplies all the other ILVA plants on the national territory, from Genoa to Novi Ligure, to Racconigi, Marghera and Patrica. In the ILVA Group 16,200 employees work, of which 10,000 are workers of the induced. Around ILVA there is an important strategic incentive, consisting of a large number of companies operating in different sectors. Supplies, transport and related activities are distributed throughout the national territory and, above all, in the North. They are currently in a difficult financial situation because of the problems encountered in the collection of claims against ILVA. The bridge loan in favour of the extraordinary administration of the ILVA Group aims to accelerate the process and completion of the transfer procedures of the company. We should really do some economic philosophy here, because something doesn't add up. It serves to guarantee at the same time the continuation of industrial activity and employment, which the Government has not yet succeeded in doing, despite the fact that in the previous measure it has been defined the term of 2015 and for that date already should have been constituted a newco. It should be borne in mind that the only way to meet the needs of protecting the environment and the health of citizens is through the continuity of business activity. Taranto could become a second Bagnoli, as the closure of the plant would lead not only to the loss of jobs, but also to the blocking of the implementation of the AIA prescriptions. In the face of this crisis we cannot be optimistic and believe that this decree-law will solve the problems of ILVA and the Italian steel industry; a sector that has fallen sharply in the face of the growth of the quantity of steel produced in other countries, such as China and India, which are dredging the international market and threatening the hold of our industrial apparatus. These are countries, Mr President, which stand on the wall like the crow on the corpse, that is, they are trying to understand in what terms to take advantage of the defiance of this company that until recently was a world leader. We clearly, Mr President, do not share the Government's choices. These choices impoverish our territories, depriving them of wealth and occupation, and end up promoting phenomena such as the relocation and deindustrialization of this country. It is important to maintain in Italy a steel industry like ILVA; we believe that the lack of political foresight for the industrial sector will produce yet another failure of the Renzi Government. The industrial and environmental situation is certainly complex - we know this very well, Mr President - but unfortunately we must note that this last decree-law cannot be resolved either. The Renzi plan foresees that the environmental plan should have been implemented at 80% in July 2015; never so vaguely on the dates and in the certainty of the work to be done. We also ask, Mr President, what happened to 1.2 billion people who were kidnapped by the Riva and we believe that some of these nine measures have complicated the possible collection of money and the setting-up of improvements. Finally, I would like to ask - they are agencies a few minutes ago - what is happening in Genoa. The Lega Group is engaged in the verification of problems related to a company that could lose 1,700 jobs. There are strikes in progress, and many of the forces of order are present to deal with the situation, but I believe that manifesting for the maintenance of a job, for the support of their family and for a company that has given work for many years is something that should happen in absolute tranquility. We think that this is yet another decree-law that intervenes in order to resolve a situation, the one that concerns ILVA, that is getting worse and worse. That is why we do not believe it to be valid and the Northern League Group is absolutely against it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u49	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr President, the fact that we are discussing the conversion of a further decree-law which concerns the ILVA in Taranto does not exalt us particularly, rather it offers us the measure and intensity of the emergency that we have to experience in this regard. But we must be intellectually honest and recognize that the situation of the ILVA is extremely complicated, that the actions put in place by the Government have gone ahead and that for this reason it is not possible, indeed it would be counterproductive, to take steps backwards; however, one never has the certainty that the step that is being taken is the decisive one. To fail to realize this complexity would be to hold a superficial attitude, which would certainly not help to solve the problem. That is why, precisely because we are concerned about the serious environmental, health and employment situation in the territory of Taranto, we believe that we should vote in favour of this conversion measure. Taranto is the paradigm of how important are the choices of economic and industrial policy of the country, and of what and how much repercussions these choices have on the real life of the workers, their families, but also on the environment and therefore on the health of the citizens. The debate that has developed in this House during the general debate confirms the degree of fragmentation present in our country's policy and that, with regard to issues such as ILVA, it is still far from finding a unity in conceiving the relationship with industry, especially when it comes to the polluting industry. And yet it goes without saying that the steel industry has represented, and is still for our country, a strategic sector, so also ILVA turns out to be in the same way a strategic company with respect to which some indispensable guarantees have to be realized: to guarantee the operational continuity of the plants in order to avoid the closure, which would create a new Bagnoli, with the risk therefore to bring to nothing the AIA prescriptions; therefore to guarantee the occupational levels and the survival of thousands of families of the workers of the plant and the induced one; to guarantee the environmental compatibility of the productions; to guarantee the protection of the health of the citizens of Taranto. The pursuit of these objectives cannot be separated from the approval of this text, since these are rules that are necessary to assert with determination the inderogability of the reallocation on the market of the ILVA business complexes in order to finally arrive at the long-awaited industrial, financial and management stability. It is now necessary to move forward along the path outlined by the previous measures; we cannot take the risk of stopping or doing dangerous backwards, even because of the financial and legal implications that this would entail. We must not forget the case of the Community infringement procedure, as we must recognize that the important game on the Italian steel industry is being played on the identification of a solid and appropriate person who shows his interest in buying the ILVA Group. We think it is the only way to guarantee a future to an industrial garrison that objectively shows to be fundamental for the Mezzogiorno and for the entire Italian economy. It is certainly not marginal that this decree-law provides for a fund of 300 million for improbable financial needs and a fund of 800 million for the sole purpose of activating the environmental plan, and that for both these funds it is foreseen to determine the interests that are responsible for the return to the State of these figures by the new tenant or buyer. Finally, with regard to the European Commission's objection, I would like to stress that the plan combines productive innovation with partial transfer to gas, further reduction of polluting emissions, reducing the use of coal, and environmental reclamation. It is clear that the pressure of European competitors who want the end of ILVA is being poured out on the European Union, because this would largely solve the excess production of steel, but we have a duty to protect the national interest by safeguarding a strategic company, as is the ILVA. For all these reasons I announce our vote in favour of the conversion of the decree-law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u52	STEFANO (Misto-PugliaMiù-Sel). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to express ourselves on a new decree-law saves ILVA, a further new decree-law: the ninth. But, as for the previous ones, I believe that this too will not solve the knots of the Italian steel industry, less than it will face and try to solve the dramas - because this must be defined - linked to the steel site of the Taranto pole. This is because structurally it does not put hand to the serious criticalities of this complex reality; critical now known to all, not only to Apulians like me, but that once again are not faced with chest. This measure again and in all its power highlights the crisis of the ILVA and the fundamental choice, increasingly critical, to resort to continuous buffer solutions: a wrong approach in its essence, because it is marked by what I could call an original sin, namely the absence of a strategic vision. We are, therefore, called once again to address this regulatory intervention because of a wrong choice, made by the Commission and defended also in the House, on which our remarks have been made several times. One on all: the failure of resources on which it had previously relied, with the previous decrees-laws, and which later failed. I am not an owl in saying this, but I need to point out that in the past these same problems had been raised. On this occasion, on the other hand, I think it would have been sufficient to give space and recognize the importance and value of dialogue and also of listening, because it was precisely on these points that stress and considerations had been expressed useful for a solution. Many of the problems that have arisen have been highlighted, especially with regard to the use of the famous EUR 1,200 million. I remember - I did it myself - that we had pointed out that these resources would have been blocked, that they could have been blocked, that is, they would not have been available as a result of a seizure of funds, actions on the foreign market and that they would have to be recovered, with all the consequent difficulties. And then, how could he rely - we said then - on resources that were highlighted in many parts as unavailable in reality? But it's a long time. We have proceeded and with this ninth decree-law the Executive intends to outline a path for the industrial future of Ilva, trying, once again, to give maximum guarantees in order to be able to make possible the intervention of private individuals. I believe, however, that, once again, this intention is being pursued in a completely unbalanced manner. I merely refer to some of the most obvious problems, for obvious reasons of time, which we had sublimated, as per practice, in amending proposals: all rejected, of course. I refer, for example, to the decision to postpone the deadline for the implementation of the measures envisaged in the AIA, without taking into account the suffering of a city attacked from an environmental point of view; but I also refer to the possibility that the future industrial plan will propose changes to the plan of environmental and health protection activities, and this will certainly be done to limit the costs, making it possible to modify the AIA. Then, future support for the private plan, identifying the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers as an instrument of authorisation that takes place, where necessary, of the environmental impact assessment, completely bypassing with this the possible future interpretations and prescriptions imposed by the bodies that would express themselves regarding the environmental criticalities of the new plan and the interventions that it could foresee. To this is associated, then, the most serious silence that this new decree-law brings with it on the future of Taranto and its reconstruction. This is a measure, which we are going to vote on today, which neither links nor calls for a vision. It is a measure which seems to take note only of the lack of 1,200 million euros that should have been relied on, thus postponing the issue of Taranto. I think it would have been common sense to foresee a one-year shift in the sales horizon, to 30 June 2017, just as we had suggested, because this would have allowed longer times for the manifestation of interest by a greater number of potentially suitable industrial subjects, then identifying those able to propose competitive industrial strategies and plans and more respectful of the processes of environmental reconstruction of the city, not only of the ILVA. This would also have allowed us not to move further the deadline for the implementation of the AIA requirements, which are fundamental to reducing the environmental sacrifice that still today is being asked of Taranto and the Apulians, on which dangerous pollutants are pouring, as shown by the data of the ARPA, but also those environmental associations, such as PeaceLink, and as evidenced also by the continuous and extensive protest from the people, for an environmental aggression that now has no more limitations. With our amendments, we also wanted to block the maintenance of employment levels, contractual guarantees and social protection for workers, so that the transfer process was painless, at least for workers. We had requested not to extend the judicial shield even in the civil sphere, for the commissioner's body and its delegates, so as not to limit the responsibility of those who, however, are called upon to decide. At the same time, we considered it necessary to involve ARPA Puglia and the Environmental Authorisation Investigation Commission integrated in the possible modification of the environmental plan, in order not to give up the scientific and technical contribution of high-skilled bodies, including with deep knowledge of the territorial realities concerned. Similarly, we supported the ISPRA's proposal to require that any modification of the plan be supported by a health-care-free document, in accordance with the ISPRA's Integrated Environmental and Health Impact Assessment (VIIAS) guidelines. Ladies and gentlemen, Taranto and its citizens are weighed down by the burden of environmental conditions and the risks associated with the continuous postponements of the deadline for adjustments provided for by the AIA, which is the main issue that is still not addressed. That is why we do not agree with the new shift towards environmental adaptation, as we do not agree with the possibility that the new buyer may propose changes to the same plan, that they may make the state of environmental deterioration persist, or even expose us to the risk of increasing it. Compliance with the deadlines set is a non-negotiable starting point and can offer different solutions, only to enhance and reward new and more careful profiles of environmental respect of the purchase proposals. We know that this is difficult, but this is possible in view of not considering the health of citizens to be negotiable, nor of not wanting to put it at the top of industrial compatibility objectives, which are also important, but which cannot be passed on to citizens. That is why we should have ensured faster times and expeditive procedures for carrying out the environmental impact assessment, but certainly not to consider a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers as a direct substitute for the proposal itself. This is a serious attack on indispensable technical procedures and on the contribution of persons with integrated competences, whose expression would improve any changes to the environmental and industrial plan. We are aware - and I would ask you for a further minute, Mr President - that environmentalisation processes can also be implemented by improving environmental control and monitoring instruments. The ARPA must also be strengthened and therefore one of the amendments to be approved - still today, once again, in this decree-law - would have been that aimed not to ask for resources, but to allow the Region Puglia the possibility to ensure, with own resources, with new recruitments, an increase of the available staff of ARPA, in order to increase the possibility to carry out the necessary monitoring and controls, because the staff of the ARPA, who is called to monitoring and controls and is in absolutely insufficient number, is subject, contrary to the commissioners, to criminal and civil liability in the case of lacked monitoring and controls. In all this, however, it has not been possible to interrogate, either in the Commission or in this House, given an approach of censure to any amending proposal. In announcing, therefore, the vote against the conversion of the decree-law under consideration, by the Mixed Group, I mean that this ninth decree-law will not close a dramatic page. It will probably only lead to considerations and a postponement of the sine die problem, I do not know how long. I am here to represent, even as Apulian, the cries of a city that wants to stop suffering, the cries of a territory that does not want to be forced, by dynamics foreign to it, to mortify other its potentials expressed by agro-food, culture and a productive world that demands respect for a territorial identity, but also of a national industrial line that is late to be defined and that continues to be interpreted with buffer initiatives that will not solve the problem, but will aggravate the difficulties of returning to a Tarantino situation that has now become truly unsustainable. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u55	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Mr Stefano's speech has led me to say that this time the Government has done well and, again, the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) will vote in favour of the measure. The two key words of the measure have been explained by my colleague Stefano, who during his speech spoke of the future path of ILVA and of maximum guarantees: path and guarantees are the two concepts. We know this very well. By now we have reached the ninth decree-law on the subject and the successive governments in time have had to put their hands on the whole issue. Therefore, if there is one issue that has been evaluated several times and appreciated by three governments and both branches of Parliament in a serious and thorough manner, this is certainly the Ilva issue. I must say that the Government has not only worked well, but also had the sense of duty to operate and to intervene because on such complicated and complex issues a serious and responsible Government, which cares for the national interest, can absolutely not fly over. There are a number of issues here that, in our view, were and are absolutely at risk. First of all, there is the issue of company continuity, which brings with it a number of other considerations: the work of employees, the work of the company, the protection of the environment and the protection of health. We must start from the assumption that, without company continuity, there would be absolutely no employment (both direct and induced), there would be no reclamation, there would be no greater protection of health, there would be no protection of the environment. The proof of what I say is in the many Italian industrial sites that, once their activity has ceased, they have not been the subject of any reclamation intervention precisely because in order to make the reclamations it is necessary that the production site continues to operate. This happened in different areas of Italy: it happens in Lazio and, dramatically, in large portions of Sicily, my land. I refer, for example, to Biancavilla and Villafranca Tirrena, where the abandonment of entire industrial sites still creates unspeakable environmental situations. We must therefore stop with sterile polemics. Of course, I realize that all the legislative measures are perfect and can be improved, if we can do better, more and earlier. We can discuss this indefinitely. However, what we must always keep in mind is that a country that wants to be a great country (I refer to ours) can only combine - and never contrast - work with health and productive excellence. What you can't do is an immature country. The various needs need to be met. We need to balance the needs and the different rights, all constitutionally guaranteed rights; the right to health, the right to the environment, the right to work. We must find balanced solutions. On the other hand, those who ideologically contrast the enterprise with the concept of work, with the concept of the environment and with the concept of health, and therefore oppose these rights, obviously act with a sterile, childish, never constructive attitude and with absolutely retroguard behavior. Where there is a healthy private initiative, private initiative must be helped, because what interests us is not just a decimal or a whole point of GDP; what interests us is to keep all these things together. Evidently, the country must become increasingly aware and mature in our view, and I think it is time to face these concepts with maturity. We must also give confidence and give confidence to potential investors, whether they are Italians or even foreigners. We cannot continue to amplify controversy or encourage behaviour that can discourage the interest of investors; no serious and intelligent investor can invest in contexts where there is a hostile climate to the company itself. A context, or context, that can see the enterprise as an enemy to oppose and fight. Foreign investment abroad is attracted by legal certainty, rapid and certain times of public administration and also by a justice that works. Justice - alas - where we still appreciate and see, day after day, a series of delays, inefficiencies and contradictions: the lack of legal certainty, the plethora of control bodies that give different indications, an ineffective bureaucracy, often creative (in the sense that often invents norms that are not even written). This sort of attitude from the beginning of the class, of those who intend to impose constant constraints, laces and laces on citizens, individual firms, VAT matches, businesses, creates a climate contrary to work, with a real competitive disadvantage compared to other competitors. And I am referring not only to those countries where there are no rights or safeguards in favour of employment and the environment and health, but also to the competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis other European countries. These are issues on which a Parliament, a serious policy, should question itself. Today goes in this direction the decree that will be voted by us today and appreciated, that it includes also the allocation of 300 million put in field by the Government, that in a certain way tends to start a cycle and therefore to guarantee an operating continuity of the structure that can create of the conditions, together with the steps that this measure has given (the 2016 and 2017, with the cession of the business complexes before 30 June 2016 and the completion of all the requirements already established before 31 December 2017). These are sufficient and sufficient reasons for positive appreciation. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteurs who already gave the exact content of the measure yesterday, once again doing a good job. In thanking them, I confirm the support and confidence of our Group. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u58	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, we have come to the 10th measure concerning ILVA. Each of the decrees had a name: save ILVA, save Riva, kill Taranto, save ILVA- bis and so on. What we are discussing today, which the government has had the brazenness to present, I would rename the bomb! In fact, the decree-law under consideration, like all the others, has solved nothing, but has accentuated and worsened everything that could be worse: where you could do further damage does them, just like a bomb that explodes. There will be no point in trying to blame someone else for the disaster, as Renzi is trying to do with his ministers: the bomb, loaded with all the environmental and social problems, will explode in his own hands. For Taranto and Puglia the situation is in fact dramatic: in Taranto ILVA has forever compromised the environment and the health of the citizens; in Taranto, as well as in the land of fires, we die more than elsewhere. The 5 Star Movement does not say this, but the Higher Institute of Health has certified it, which, in the last update of the National Epidemiological Study of the territories and settlements exposed to pollution risk (SENTIERI), reports excess mortality for all causes and hospitalizations in the first year of life. Puglia has suffered the destruction of thousands of olive trees in the Salento territory with the excuse of xylella, which has seriously damaged the local economy, the environment and oil productions. The extermination of secular trees has stopped only with the intervention of the judiciary and also in this regard we believe that the faults are of the Government and of Minister Martina, for which we have tabled a motion of distrust and we are waiting for it to be scheduled. Not content with all this - and as if that were not enough - last Christmas the Government, with a decree of the Ministry of Economic Development, has authorized the oil drilling off the Tremiti islands, without taking into account the devastating impact that will take place on the marine ecosystem. On the employment front, ILVA workers are desperate and exasperated because they are damaged twice: by plants that do not comply with the minimum safety standards, by dust from mining parks, by foundry slag, by accidents at work, which have now become daily and sometimes even fatal. They are damaged once again because they suffer as citizens of those places. However, besides the damage there is the mockery, because in exchange for all this, sacrifices made from a lifetime because the company was to be saved, the ILVA also announces for the second year 3,500 solidarity contracts, which will be applied throughout 2016. We're talking about 3,500 workers, 3,500 families! For those who do not know, in short, the solidarity contract is the antechamber of the integration fund and mobility and consists in a reduction of the salary: less money per month for each family. For the factories of Genoa, instead, to the workers you have prepared another beautiful gift, previewing, with the paragraph 6- novies of Article 1, the recourse to the institute of the socially useful work. The workers, however, understood it immediately and for this reason they are in revolt and in these days they have occupied the plant of Genoa. For the 5 Star Movement the ILVA had to be converted immediately and it is not said that it had to continue to produce steel, since there are no conditions and that it is in fact out of the market. Bonifice must be done, which would last years and years, and could employ even more people as a workforce than those employed by Ilva today. The territory must be returned to the city and its natural vocation: Taranto isn't just ILVA. However it will go, the ILVA is without future, just as Italy in the hands of this Government, which did not think of its conversion, did not think of the health of the citizens and the environment and did not think of the workers, to whom it should have been a shield, instead it acted as a shield only to finance and his friends. The Renzi Government wants to do with ILVA what Berlusconi did with Alitalia, that is good and bad company. In fact, the President of the Council told Il Sole 24 Ore: "Now the ban is open, let's see if - as I believe - there will be a winning rope. I'm optimistic. In essence, his plan consists simply in the hope that the wheel of fortune turns on his side, relying on the case; or, like Berlusconi for Alitalia, he points on a rope of brave captains. Everyone, however, knows how it ended: the Alitalia was sold out and torn apart, the brave captains failed and the result was that the good company was sold to the Arabs of Etihad and the bad company (so the losses) we citizens took it. Let us return to the bomb decree: first of all, this measure came to us armored, as if you had already raised the question of trust. It is evident the order sent by the Government to proceed sent without modification; in fact, in the Commissions gathered 10a and 13a we have intervened in the merit always and only us of the 5 Star Movement. This decree-law is unconstitutional. In addition to the daily abuse that the Government makes of decree-laws, I would like to pay attention to one point, namely the favourable opinion adopted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the House: in fact, black and white, it was written by the majority rapporteur who considered it appropriate to assess the constitutional legitimacy of the decree-law. The recognition of an exemption of civil liability for Commissioners, in fact, clearly contradicts Article 24 of the Constitution, which guarantees the right of defence in every state and degree of the proceedings. In the previous ILVA decree, the Government has foreseen that in the head of the extraordinary commissioner and the subjects from this delegate was a real immunity, with the exclusion of criminal and administrative responsibility; today it also adds the exclusion of civil liability, clearly violating once again the Constitution. You then decided to sell the ILVA with a private negotiation and did not touch on the idea of proceeding in compliance with the principles of transparency and public evidence. No, none of this, and even before the examination in the Commission was concluded in the Chamber, the Government already proceeded with a decree signed by the Minister Guidi with the publication of the manifestation of interest for the sale of the ILVA complex, giving the de facto start to the private negotiation. In three passages we can summarize the three great damages caused by this decree-law. First, in paragraph 3 of Article 1, you give EUR 300 million to ILVA for the group's undisputable financial needs. How is it that people's health and environmental recovery are not too urgent for you? Secondly, in paragraph 6-a of Article 1, Commissioners are authorised to contract state funding of up to 800 million euros for the implementation of the environmental plan; therefore, for the financial problems of the ILVA given 300 million immediately, cash, one on the other, while for the implementation of the environmental recovery will be seen. Thirdly, this time too, unfortunately, nothing will be done about it, as nothing has been done so far. You had foreseen in the previous decrees that had to be fulfilled in 2014, then with another decree, that of the loan bridge of 400 million, you moved the prescriptions to July 2015, then to December 2016 and now move everything to 30 June 2017! See? You don't really care about environmental recovery and citizens' health. This decree, which refers everything to 2017, is proof of this; you have always done so. With the excuse of environmental recovery never done, you took money from us to give it to the Rivas. On these very three points, last Tuesday, 19 January, in the Commission, I reiterated that you were continuing to use public money to save the private company ILVA, and that it was State aid and that Europe would ask us to take it into account. The next day, on 20 January, the news arrives that Europe has started an investigation, and will assess whether the Italian support measures comply with the European rules on State aid. The announcement of the last investigation on State aid to ILVA, which, together with the previous decrees, is around two billion euros, is only the announcement of yet another blow. We must therefore prepare to receive another very salty European sanction because of the Renzi Government. We know, therefore, how it will end: the European Commission after the investigation will certainly open an infringement procedure in damage, Italy will be fined, Italian citizens will pay and the Government will have done its own business and its friends Riva. Meanwhile, citizens no longer know what to do and are desperate. Mr. President, I'm about to finish. About two weeks ago, a group of Taranto parents self-taxed and bought in the city a series of advertising spaces where they exhibited a photo; in it you see the ILVA at night with its smokes rising up into the sky and covering the city and above there is a simple but disconcerting writing: The children of Taranto want to live. President, the initiative of these parents was born because an eight-year-old asked her mother if it was true that the children of Taranto were more ill than the other children of the rest of Italy. So, the little girl had heard the news released by the high school of health bouncing in all the newspapers. Everyone heard it except the government. But the citizens demand answers, and in this decree-law there are no answers; not even this time, although it is the tenth measure in this matter. Unemployment in Puglia is on a very high rise: in the Province of Taranto, for example, the youth unemployment rate has grown by almost 14 points in a year, from 40.5 to 54.2 So it is not true that the ILVA does occupation; indeed, it will always be worse: with the public money this decree-law divides the company to give it to small pieces to the industrial groups friends of the Government, with the money and the jobs that will be lost will be thousands. The tweets of the President-in-Office of the Council "For Taranto and for the ILVA hope starts again", "La volta buona" and "Progetto Taranto" do not serve against pollution and cancers, but not even as propaganda anymore. This Government is not credible and does not have the confidence of the Italians. For this reason and for all the above reasons, for the workers of the Ilva, for the citizens, parents and children of Taranto, I therefore announce that the 5 Star Movement will vote absolutely no to this decree scam. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u61	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with yet another ILVA decree-law that nothing solves and, rather, aggravates the problems of one of the most important European steel complexes. The interest in saving the company that the President of the Council had expressed about a year ago had been translated, by chance, into a further decree-law which, however, did not bear the desired fruit. The way forward was to proceed with the extraordinary administration, entrusted to three external commissioners, who would have had to start, first of all, the necessary environmental reclamation procedures. It will be said that, on that occasion, the Government had relied on 1.2 billion, kidnapped by the Riva family, to which it could not draw, since it was blocked by the Swiss court for lack of final judgment. Moreover, much of that billion - and precisely EUR 800 million - was destined, by the law of stability, for environmental reclamation. Therefore, it is likely that, even under extraordinary administration, environmental rehabilitation is far from being initiated but, by chance, by the will of the Government, no civil and criminal liability can be attributed to the extraordinary commissioners. Thus, if the previous decrees have not had any decisive outcome, the same conclusion must be reached today, when the law of this decree-law before the House is converted into law. The central point is the sale of the steel group's industrial complexes, which will have to take place by 30 June 2016. This is an operation, in the state of affairs, only planned on paper. We talk only of hypothetical Italian roped, indeed so hopefully, but nothing is yet given for sure. Meanwhile, the Government has allocated 300 million euros to ensure the continuation of the activity during the transitional phase. It is then specified that these resources represent a loan that will have to be returned by the company that will take over the ILVA, plus interest. It seems quite singular that the company that will take over will be charged, without his knowledge, a loan that he has never signed. But, in any case, in all likelihood, if the acquisition does not take place quickly, the resources made available will be insufficient to keep the company in business. There are too many negative data: decree after decree, attempt after attempt, nothing concrete did the Government. Rather, the situation continues to worsen because an investigation has been opened in Brussels to verify whether the amounts earmarked for the recovery of the ILVA could constitute State aid, i.e. whether the Government, through the disbursement of public money, has infringed the competition rules. Uncertainty and vagueness about figures certainly do not offer future buyers a clear view. It is therefore a very costly operation: it is estimated that it will take an investment of about three billion to manage the most immediate needs. The restoration of the ILVA, both from an economic and environmental point of view, should have been carried out through a much more elaborate industrial plan and certainly not based on the extemporaneity of innumerable decree-laws, with a character of necessity and urgency. For Forza Italia it is an essential objective to safeguard the ILVA steel plant, especially to protect the employment level, which involves about 20,000 employees of the entire complex. It is not to be underestimated that hundreds of other companies are moving around the ILVA and that its closure would have a significant relapse for many workers. The government must prevent this disastrous eventuality. Environmental reclamation is also a priority for the city of Taranto and for the protection of the health of citizens; environmental needs must be taken into account in the same way as working, industrial and economic. We therefore need a reclamation plan which, in the years to come, can improve the health of our citizens, especially in neighbouring areas; but this must in no way prevent us from continuing with productive activity, without which thousands of families would be forced to live in poverty. For these reasons, Forza Italia considers the Government's commitment to be ineffective, which with yet another decree-law has only stalled, postponing to the near future a possible solution, assuming that it has it. The Government should have prepared a serious industrial plan and above all it could be assessed in its entirety. Instead, with this and with the previous decrees, the Government has made ILVA a puzzle of which it is really difficult to figure out. What, at present, is preeminent for us is to ask the Government for a greater commitment to remove the pitfalls that can compromise Taranto's industrial destiny. Much depends on the agreements that will be reached at European level with the major producers on the continent and with the Community institutions in Brussels. On the basis of all these considerations, we believe that the Government has not had that attention and that due care in dealing with all the important issues behind the largest European steel complex. For these reasons, I declare the contrary vote of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u64	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate that has accompanied the decree-law that we are about to finally convert into law, with the vote we are about to make, a subject has returned, also in the debate of these hours, specious and not convincing: I am referring to the accounting of the decrees that over the last four years have had as their object the future of the ILVA Group and, in particular, of the establishment in Taranto. In fact, just the repeated legislative initiative that has passed through several governments and this, as well as the previous one, Parliament may also give a sense of some error, some approximation and some initial misunderstanding, but I believe it confirms above all the enormity of an issue, which calls into question one of the most serious environmental tragedies in the country's industrial history and, at the same time, the fate of as many as 20,000 jobs, between direct and indirect, and the main steel plant in Europe, where one third of the national steel needs are produced. Because we're talking about this, not an ordinary affair. In recent days the President of the Council has returned to reaffirm that for the Italian Government the commitment to overcome the challenge of the ILVA is absolutely priority. It is not a ritual and reassuring response to the frequent demands that continue to fall on the Executive about the future of the steel plant in Taranto and the entire ILVA Group, but rather - I believe - the firm awareness of having prepared what was possible and continuing to work to solve what can be defined, without a shadow of doubt, the most serious industrial and environmental crisis that is now open throughout Europe. For these reasons, the complexity of this affair squeals with the simplifications, often instrumental, that periodically happen to us to read or listen, beginning with the most banal and together the most cruel, that has returned also in the debate yesterday and this morning in the Chamber: the one that calls for the closure of the plant, accompanied by the truly dreamlike idea - as my colleague Fabbri said last night - or rather by the prejudice that has so far been intended to give preference to the interest of production compared to that of the protection of health and the environment. Nothing more false and far from the truth. Let us think for a moment what the scenario would be today if Government and Parliament had not intervened, albeit repeatedly: many thousands of workers struggling with social shock absorbers and without any future of reemployment and the prospect of environmental rehabilitation of Taranto's industrial site rendered essentially unworkable by the failure of any link with business and production continuity. It is a scene of enormous gravity, made evident to the whole country by the mobilization and protests that in these hours are involving the workers of the ILVA of Cornigliano, to which our full and convinced solidarity goes and to which we reaffirm the commitment of the Democratic Party to strongly support their reasons, as already done in this decree-law, certain that the Government, already starting from the next meeting of 4 February, will further do its part. Instead, we have chosen the path that we have always defined as the most ambitious and together the most difficult: to try to face together the environmental and social emergency of an entire city and, at the same time, to save and enhance a decisive piece of our manufacturing system, to which Italy cannot and must not give up. Italy is in fact the second largest steel producer in Europe, after Germany, and has produced about 24 million tons of steel; nevertheless, we continue to be a country that imports this material. Not to mention that our manufacturing system uses steel in sectors where Italian industry is world leader, from automotive to mechanics. Now, no one can even for a moment imagine that there can still exist a model of factory son of another era: a model that allowed the Rivas, until they were able to manage the ILVA undisturbed, especially in Taranto, and after the judicial investigation of their responsibilities, to maximize their profits to the detriment of health and the environment, neglecting the necessary technological and plant investments to produce safely. For these reasons, both the Government and the Commissioner's own management, in accordance with the legislative measures adopted by Parliament, have sought over the last two years to ensure the continuity of production and employment with the start of the technological investments envisaged by the environmental plan, with a complex financial architecture that in part could be realized and partly not. I am thinking, specifically, of the various measures provided for in Law No 20 last year and of the resources for a 1.2 billion euro, still blocked in the judicial proceedings before the Swiss judiciary and which were tied precisely to the implementation of the environmental plan. The decree-law that we are about to approve is consistently part of this viatico, as my fellow rapporteurs have explained in detail, recalling specifically the contents of the measure. I will not call them back, but I just want to remind them of the main elements: firstly, to speed up the process of disposal of plants and to define transparent procedures and certain times for such a delicate and significant transition, to anchor to full employment protection and to an industrial plan based on the best technologies available for environmental sustainability and, at the same time, on the ambition to make even more competitive what is still one of Europe's major steel groups today. It is significant in these hours the availability manifested by the Cassa deposits and loans to participate in any new loans in the action of relaunching the competitiveness of the ILVA Group. Secondly, significant resources are made available to the commissioner's management: on the one hand, 300 million to ensure the continuity of production and support the ordinary management and that will be returned, re-evaluated with the interests at the disposal procedure defined; on the other hand, 800 million totally bound - and I remind those who still say that there are no resources for environmental investments - to the realization of the additional interventions, alongside those already carried out in the past years, aimed at the full implementation of the environmental plan. The latter are resources on which the State can rely in the name of the polluter pays principle and the formal definition of the judicial procedure in Switzerland. Other than state aid, colleagues. They are resources anticipated by the State, with distinct destinations and paths of return to the public coffers absolutely linear and not at all random, as wrongly supported by some colleagues of the opposition. And if in the meantime I can understand that some of the main European companies competing in the ILVA denounce our country for violating the rules on state aid, reason of the cognitive investigation - due act, and not of non-existent infringement procedures - started in recent days by the European Commission, I find frankly unacceptable that they are then political forces in our country - also here, in the classrooms of our Parliament - or so-called environmental associations in the same Taranto to cheer for the Commission itself to recognize what state aid the interventions made so far and the resources allocated in this decree-law. But do we realize, ladies and gentlemen - I mean with clarity - the political and ideological monster that exists in this self-harmful attitude, in a sort of mix of propaganda and defeatism? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been following the whole debate in this House over the last few hours. I have great respect for the negative opinions of ours on the goodness of this measure, which have been concerned with the merits of the measures included in the decree-law, while I have found some tones and arguments frankly uncommendable for demagogy and the wishful thinking well other than any credible alternative proposal to what has been done so far and to what is foreseen in the measures under consideration. Obviously we do not want to grasp the depth of the challenge before us. We are at a crucial step, in fact, not only for the life of the ILVA plant in Taranto and the entire Group, but for the entire industrial history of our country. Government and Parliament must ensure that this challenge is won, and to save not only that establishment, jobs, a city, but also a decisive part of the Italian industrial system and our ability to continue to be a great manufacturing country. At the same time, a modern industrial policy can only be based on the sustainability of production processes and full coherence with the objectives of respect for the environment and health relaunched a few weeks ago in Paris by COP21. ILVA can be the driving force behind a new technologically and environmentally state-of-the-art steel industry in the global market. It seems to me that the whole range of measures that we are examining clearly give the idea - this yes - of a stubborn political and institutional will, which we claim at the head of the Government and the Democratic Party, to hold together these objectives and, in particular, the productive continuity and environmental recovery. Don't recognize him, even before he's honest, it's a huge mistake. We do not intend to make this mistake, and indeed we will continue to work incessantly for the future of Italian industry and for the good of the workers and citizens of Taranto. For these reasons, the Senators of the Democratic Party will vote with conviction in favour of the conversion into law of this decree. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Longo and Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u67	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u68	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u69	Colleagues, in order to better organize our work, pursuant to Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I have the reverse of the agenda, in the sense of moving to the examination of the request for an urgent statement on the document establishing a Committee of Inquiry on the reconstruction of the territories affected by the seismic events of 6 April 2009.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u70	The next item is the vote on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on document XXII, No 5. I also note that two requests for a statement of urgency have been made pursuant to Article 77 of the Rules of Procedure concerning draft law No 2151, establishing a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the reconstruction of the city of L'Aquila and the other municipalities affected by the earthquake of 6 April 2009 at the first signature of Senator Pezzopane, as well as draft law No 2152, establishing a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the reconstruction of the city of L'Aquila and the other countries affected by the earthquake of 6 April 2009 at the first signature of Senator Maurizio Romani. These requests will be discussed in conjunction with the deliberations on the agenda. There will therefore be a single debate in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Blondo has the floor to illustrate her request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I realise that, in order to be aware of what really happens in a territory, we need to live in it, and even more so when we suffer the daily negative effects of many of the national and local political choices adopted after the tragic earthquake of 6 April 2009. I started my battle of clarity and transparency on the use of the funds allocated for the reconstruction of L'Aquila, since the first anomalies emerged, the first inflated contracts, the first injustices, the first cases of mafia infiltration and corruption in the management of the funds. In seventy-eight months, 15 billion euros have been allocated, but not even the shadow of the reconstruction work has been completed. What has appeared in the eyes of the eagle in recent years, ladies and gentlemen, is a chilling picture, a perverse interweaving of interests, which has seen and sees involved politicians, officials, entrepreneurs, who move casually within the perverse logic of do ut des. The rot, however, ladies and gentlemen, does not remain hidden for long: a corrupt system, sooner or later, comes to light and the ascertainment of political responsibilities, national and local, for the state of crisis in the city of L'Aquila, has become a shared priority, also in this House, by some colleagues, belonging to other political forces, who now have full awareness of it. I refer to the request to set up the Commission of Inquiry, which was also lodged by my colleague Pezzopane del PD and my former colleagues from the 5 Star Movement, Maurizio Romani and Bencini, currently from Italy of Values. Well, there are many police operations and investigations that have involved political figures belonging to the Cialente administration, such as the former mayor Riga, as well as environmental councillor, who was forced to resign from his office and is currently under house arrest, and various public officials, held responsible, in various ways, together with entrepreneurs, technicians and contractors, of corruption, material and ideological falsehoods, misappropriation on contracts related to post-earthquake reconstruction and bribes in exchange for the award of works related to the safety of buildings damaged by the earthquake of 2009. It is a gruesome picture, which could not fail to have serious repercussions on the social and productive fabric of the city of L'Aquila, favoring the closure of numerous autochthonous commercial activities, without the local politics moving a finger. A few months ago, gathering complaints from many construction companies involved in reconstruction due to delays in the examination and delivery of the state of progress of the works, I asked the Mayor Cialente for an operation of truth and transparency on how to use the funds, but I have not yet received an answer. Over the past seven years, L'Aquila has been forced to swallow many pills of evil from the very beginning. How can we forget the many collapses in Preturo, in one of the 19 new towns built urgently for the post-sysm housing emergency and then advertised as an eagle miracle, while the city's public and private real estate assets were virtually ignored? This is a deal financed with EUR 500 million from the European Union and soon ended up under the lens of the Court of Auditors in Brussels for the rising costs of 158% compared to the standards of prefabricated apartments and 43% compared to the standard costs of public housing for social purposes. As often happens, the emergency and desperation of the displaced have turned into a big deal for the mob companies, punctually failed to answer for nothing, while the citizens have put us back in safety and health. We eagles had to attend and witness the mafia disaster that is being consumed on our territory, accomplices several local political characters easily corruptible. The chronicles of recent years bring us different situations of mafia and camorristic infiltration. Among these, we remember the case, which came to light in July 2014, of Emerald owned by the entrepreneur Gabriele Valentini, investigated for having obtained, without having right, a post-sysm contribution of 730,000 euros in order to restructure the building of his property, then became the seat of the L'Aquila Revenue Agency. Continuing with the long list of suspects, you can not fail to remember the investigation carried out by the anti-mafia district management, reported in local newspapers at the end of July 2015, which saw the condemnation of the former city council member Tancredi, or the case of fraud for several million euros against the state and civil protection perpetrated by engineers, city managers and entrepreneurs, concerning the construction of the housing of the CASE Project, which, at the end of the investigations, has seen delivered notices of guarantee to rain against as many as 37 characters in various categories involved, including Lucio Nardis, Mario Di Gregorio (technical manager of the Municipality), Vittorio Fabrizi, Enrica De Paulis (manager of the Municipality), Carlo Cafaggi and Marco Balassone. In recent years, we Aquilans have been faced with a political class sensitive to the adulations and temptations of money, to the point of putting at stake the reputation and good repute of an entire City of great value and cultural, historical and artistic value; a political class soft and frayed, without a real moral nervation, since already for some time the idealism and the political dream of a just and democratic society have sadly disappeared between the links of a purchase of human values and corruption. All these ugly stories, fed by collusive attitudes and behaviors, now make us believe that the true Gomorrah is now in L'Aquila. Here is Pandora's box to be found, so that we can finally decapitate that beast that is definitely drying up our territory and our country. These are the reasons why I call for this House to urgently decide today to set up a Commission of Inquiry which would not have particularly long organisational and operational times, as it would be much more streamlined than the bicameral one proposed by colleagues, thanks to its monocameral nature and its limited duration of six months. This proposal is based on Article 82 of the Constitution, which states that each Chamber may order inquiries into matters of public interest, through the establishment of a Commission which will be granted the same powers and limitations as the judicial authority. The areas of action of the Commission will be: the acquisition of all the information, data and documents related to the activities carried out by the public administration and the actors involved in the reconstruction, with particular reference to the funds; the acquisition, including through hearings of the interested parties, of information on the status of the reconstruction projects, with particular reference to any delays or malfunctions, relating to the resumption of the productive activities and to the chronological programme of the reconstruction; the verification of the commitments made by public and private entities for the recovery of cultural assets; the verification of the efficiency and effectiveness of the legislation that has so far governed the phase of the reconstruction signaling the relative criticalities; the identification of the most appropriate measures for the prevention of seismic risk and the safety of the territory. Colleagues, I hope that in this House today we will really take a step towards transparency and justice, in order to render the many citizens tormented by the earthquake of 2009. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] 11:45 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u72	Senator Pezzopane has the word to illustrate her request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u73	Madam President, senators and senators, it is certainly urgent to give full light and transparency to what happened in Abruzzo, and in particular in the territory affected by the earthquake of 6 April 2009. I am referring to L'Aquila, the martyred city, and the many municipalities. On 6 April 2016, it will be seven years since that huge tragedy, a period in which we can make an assessment, but we must also express concerns. The evaluation is as follows, from my point of view: finally the reconstruction has steered the march. This government, through the laws of stability and other instruments, has made a decisive contribution. Approaching L'Aquila, exiting the motorway, you can finally see the cranes in the historic center and its reconstructed buildings are a spectacle. I'd like to be your Cicero on a visit to my city, in the crater struck by the earthquake. And this is the result of efforts, interventions and resources of the State: many have arrived in the land hit by the earthquake and many have been spent well and transparently and cleanly. It is true that, since the morning of April 6, there have been events of evil and corruption. The anti-Mafia Commission has come twice to our territory over the past seven years (the first with the Presidency of Mr Pisanu, the second with the Presidency of Mr Bindi) and, after the earthquake, President Pisanu denounced that already within the very complicated procurement system there were infiltrations. The Committee of Inquiry which I propose to set up - and I thank the many Members of the Democratic Party who have signed my proposal - tends to shed light on the various aspects that have characterized the reconstruction in the past seven years. We were spared nothing. On the morning of April 6 there were already those who rub their hands and spoke on the phone saying that not every day there is an earthquake, so you had to go immediately to that reality for business (or bad business) to manage. Since that day many things have happened, but L'Aquila is not the City of Evil. Local administrators, who have been struggling with enormous sacrifices for seven years, are not evildoers and judicial investigations will shed light on who, instead, administrator, official or political, has committed crimes for which he must be severely condemned. However, it is not possible to make a trial for an entire community that is still suffering from delays, suffering from the inadequacy of the national ruling class, which for the first few years has felt it was necessary to keep the territory and the local administrators, taking away power from the local administrations and surrogating with many wrong actions that work, that initiative. The draft law I am a bearer of aims to establish a bicameral commission, but we do not make it a problem. We need to restore serenity to our community, and I believe that the Commission of Inquiry, without prejudice to the competences of the judiciary, can take a number of issues into account. I quote a couple, the ones that I think are crucial. There are problems in the management of procurement and subcontracting: the Chief Prosecutor Cardella has repeatedly invited us to legislate in a more stringent way and I have tried, both with amendments and with an organic bill. We need to get to the bottom of this issue, because evil and corruption can also be prevented through more appropriate regulations. I therefore ask why - and the Commission of Inquiry will have to make a judgment - there has never been an organic law on the reconstruction of the territories affected in Abruzzo, and for years and years we have been going on with often contradictory orders, which have put local administrators and even economic operators in difficulty. If someone delinque and someone else is corrupted or corrupted, most entrepreneurs have, instead, behaved on the basis of art and have operated on the basis of transparency and cleanliness. Another objective of the Commission is to understand why many of the public resources determined for precise purposes have been stopped: I am thinking, for example, of the 100 million for the upgrading of railway lines, of the resources for roads or for youth centres, of the resources for the family or for the anti-violence centre. Where did they stop? Whose responsibilities are they? And then again, on the realization of the anti-seismic projects, it now arouses scandal when the chronicle tells that the balconies and the fixtures collapse, or that the pillars of some of the anti-seismic complexes, those that should have been characterized by a higher rate of anti-seismicity, are instead at seismic risk. We are all amazed when we read this news, but nobody remembers why the reconstructions took place in that way and why local authorities were expropriated from taking decisions. Therefore, we need to clarify the so much positive work done and understand how the resources lately destined for economic activities - the City has suffered a very heavy decline from the economic and social point of view - can be effectively used, being many funds destined for development still firm in the jams of the Italian Ministries and Development.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u74	Senator Pezzopane, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u75	Mr Pezzopane (PD). I trust that this House will be able to ensure that these draft laws are adopted very quickly, knowing how to combine their different requirements. It must also be borne in mind that, in my proposal for a law, precise objectives are contained: we do not need a general committee of inquiry, but one that goes deeper on the most disturbing and worrying aspects of the affair, which cast shadows on a reconstruction that, when it is completed, will be the pride not only of my community, but of the entire country. At that point we can say that we have reconstructed a city torn apart by the earthquake, that we have done it well and transparently, because Italy can be reconstructed, L'Aquila can be reconstructed as we all want: well, faster and with maximum transparency and legality. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u76	Senator Romani Maurizio has the floor to illustrate his request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled this draft law to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to clarify the mechanism of post-earthquake reconstruction, without making any primal rights, but with a constructive view of cooperation with all those who wish to contribute. How did this request come about? Senator Bencini and I were urged by the Gruppo dell'Italia dei Valori and by the two municipal councillors of L'Aquila, the former budget councillor Elio De Angelis and the current council member Giovanni Cocciante, both of Italy of the Values, to visit the city to see the situation. Well, from this trip we understood something fundamental: L'Aquila needs not polemics, but real measures, concrete acts that guarantee transparency, but above all respect for the legality of reconstruction, for a territory that was dramatically hit by the earthquake of 2009. We have no intention of wearing a hat. We only intend to put our will, knowledge and honesty in reconstruction. That's all we care about. The polemics we leave to others. When I heard, on radio, for the first time the words that Senator Pezzopane also recalled, according to which that earthquake was definitely a source of income I realized, once again, that there is a lot to do in Italy, especially because we ourselves acquire the concept of legality. In a project such as an earthquake, in which billions of euros are invested, it is clear that we must bear in mind the past, but we must also look to the future. In the law of stability we invested money and, specifically, in that of 2015, where it is expected a further financing of 5.1 billion euros, of which 200 million for 2015 and 900 for 2016. I've been to L'Aquila and I've seen the mess gone. Through the emergency mechanism we carried out an investigation and noticed a large number of waste: the certificates of agibilità of the 24 schools of L'Aquila, reopened in September 2009, cost 600,000 euros, while the estimate was 24,000; the works for the reconstruction of the police station, which had been estimated in a total amount of 3 million euros, cost 18 million euros; for the faculty of engineering, moved to an industrial shed, the expected rent of 900,000 euros per year has reached 1,9 million euros. We cannot believe that such a situation is going on in this way. Whether it's a single-cameral or two-cameral committee, it doesn't matter. The important thing - in my opinion - is that those who decide to be part of it do so with the idea of being able to look at the cards and to understand who the responsibilities are, because they exist. I saw not only the fallen balconies, but desperate people, people who supplied companies that, without any competition, undertook the reconstruction and did not see themselves paid. The citizens of L'Aquila have suffered damage in their businesses and in their trade and such a situation, in a situation of despair, is further serious and certainly to be punished with the utmost seriousness. I think this must find us all united. I don't want to say who the culprits are now, because I don't have a chance to see all the cards at the moment. When we asked for them, we struggled to examine the few available. Despite various investigations aimed at ascertaining the responsibilities of such a disastrous management, both in the emergency phase and in the reconstruction phase, a comprehensive investigation that, when examining all the critical issues, collects as much information as possible seems necessary, also because we must give a serious political response to those citizens who have suffered serious damage and who still today have to face the hardships due to that earthquake. We must all give a political response and we of Italy of Values, together with you, are here for this. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Vaccari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u80	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I welcome and fully support the proposal to set up a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to shed light on the critical issues connected with the reconstruction of the territories affected by the earthquake of 6 April 2009, which affected L'Aquila, its Province and the whole of Abruzzo. During these years, since that tragic 6 April 2009, after the first phase, that of the emergency, resolved with timeliness and efficiency by the Berlusconi Government, has moved to the most difficult and complex phase, that of reconstruction, entrusted in that case to the local authorities. This has been a slow, structural and social reconstruction, which has sometimes been interrupted, because the necessary intervention of the judiciary has meant that some reconstruction procedures have been interrupted precisely because of infiltrations of a malavitous nature. It is clear that so many shadows have thickened on the processes of reconstruction in all these years. It is, therefore, good and necessary to make clear, for the respect that is owed to the populations affected by such a dramatic event, that has brought to their knees the economy of the territories, as well as having caused mourning and pain. For these brief reasons and for the commitment to always affirm the principle of transparency in political and administrative action, I am absolutely in favour of this proposal and, therefore, will vote 'yes' to the establishment of a committee of inquiry. If there have been shortcomings, omissions, precise responsibilities in behaviour and acts, it is right and necessary that they be established and affected. The city of L'Aquila, the capital of our Region, must be again the pride not only of Abruzzo but of the whole of Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u83	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the requests for the establishment of parliamentary committees of inquiry and their consequent constitution certify and underline - alas and unfortunately - that in Italy too often things are not going well and ordinary procedures do not work out of responsibility for the rules and those who have to apply them, politicians, administrators, public leaders, bad entrepreneurs or even organized crime. We are talking about the events of an earthquake in 2009. I would like to represent to my colleagues that this morning, in the Environment and Territory Commission, we audited one of the mayors of the Belice Valley, hit by an earthquake in 1968, which, representing other mayors in the area, represented us, almost half a century later, that there is still a lot to do and that there is still a need for economic resources. Although over 12,000 billion old lire has been spent in that valley, another 400 million euros are being demanded for the reconstruction of homes of private citizens and public works. About L'Aquila events of evil and corruption and news of judicial investigations have been brought to the public's attention by the press. I am unable to draw conclusions, unlike my colleague Mr Pezzopane, that I imagine he is the first signatory of one of the three draft laws for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry and that he speaks of the responsibility of the national ruling class, as if he had the magical sphere and was able to identify those responsible for it. On the Eagle we have to do some insights, but I would like to remind you that in addition to the many millions of euros allocated in the past, less than a month ago CIPE has allocated another 1.077 million euros, which is a package of money that appeals to many. Having said that, and as stated in the preamble, the Group of the North League supports the request for the formation of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. We share it for the necessary transparency, but in particular for the citizens and businesses of the city of L'Aquila and of the other crater countries who have the right to know if on their skin and on that of the deceased loved ones there have been people who have speculated and committed crimes. The Northern League Group will therefore vote yes to all three proposals for the formation of the Commission of Inquiry. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u84	I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, in relation to document XXII, n. 5, made by Senator Blundo and other senators. It's approved. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I put to the vote the request for a statement of urgency, pursuant to Rule 77 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, in relation to the bill n. 2151, made by Senator Pezzopane and other senators. It's approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, in relation to the bill n. 2152, made by Senator Romani Maurizio and other senators. It's approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u87	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we are very pleased that this urgency procedure has been granted, but I would like to remind the Presidency that there are other draft laws which have been in the urgent procedure for two years now, and I would therefore like to ask the Presidency, on the occasion of the timetable of these draft laws, to put them all on the agenda of this House in order to avoid overlaps or anticipations with what has already been decided in the past.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u88	I suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders, convened at 12.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.15 p.m. and resumed at 13.41 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u89	The Conference of Leaders approved the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 11 February. This afternoon, beginning at 3 p.m., motion 501 of distrust to the Government will be discussed, presented by the Groups of the North League and of Forza Italia, to which the Conference of the Leaders decided, by majority, to combine the similar motion 510, presented by the 5 Star Movement Group. In accordance with practice, after the joint debate and final explanations of vote, an independent roll-call vote will be held for each motion. In the afternoon session tomorrow will resume the examination of the bill on civil union with the illustration of the suspensive and prejudiceal questions. The vote on incidental matters will take place at the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 2 February, beginning at 4.30 p.m. The discussion of the measure will continue next week and in the week from 9 to 11 February. At the afternoon session on Thursday 4 February, the question time will take place with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u90	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00501 and 1-00510 of distrust of the Government. I call the Senators D'Alì and Centinario to explain motion 501.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u91	Mr President, the motion of mistrust which we are proposing today is based on a number of contingent facts, which have characterized the lives of four important banks in Central Italy. We are not passionate about specific content and personal aspects, but we are passionate about the absolute concern we have for the fate of the Italian banking system, which continues to be regulated through episodic interventions and, above all, aroused by facts that create emotion in public opinion. We began, at the beginning of the year, with the reform of the popular banks and now we have been overwhelmed by a decree: I use the expression "overwhelmed" because the Senate did not even have the opportunity to read it. I appeal to you, Mr President, for a balance in the considerations and debates concerning important issues for the country. The so-called bank-saving decree, in fact, was formulated by the Government, transformed into an amendment to the law of stability and, within forty-eight hours, it was defined by the Chamber of Deputies, within the framework of the law of stability and, therefore, this branch of Parliament did not have the opportunity to talk about it. I therefore hope that this can be done in the course of the debate in the parliamentary committee of inquiry, which we have asked to set up, together with all the groups present in this House. I also hope that, for this Commission too, as today has happened for the Commission of Inquiry into the facts of L'Aquila, an urgent procedure will be established for its definition and the start of its work. We shall therefore speak better of those contingent facts in that forum. Today our very strong concern is that the government will once again move in a very delicate system, such as the banking system of our country. This would be the second disastrous attempt by the present government to imitate another government. The first was the absolute failure of the attempt to imitate John Gentile, while the second would be the absolute failure of imitation of the great Beneduce, who drew up the banking law of 1936. This is because we live with emotions. Banks - I say this to government representatives and colleagues - are not the basis of the economy, but the intermediaries between those who save and those who invest. The fact that we are now intervening in support of the banking system with a mechanism that we have unfortunately already experienced a few years ago (i.e. the so-called bad guys' bank, invented by the Bank of Italy in the 1990s), is a great danger to the economy. The economy of our country is in the vast majority composed of small and medium-sized enterprises and this economic reality is far from the parameters of Basel 1, Basel 2, Basel 3, and so on, which are models much closer to the German and continental economy. The so-called bad guys' banks are at risk of giving the banking system the opportunity to put into this context credits that should not go into pain, as has happened in the past. Here someone remembers the story of the Banco di Napoli - I have memory and therefore I can talk about it - that in 1996 it was packaged as a gift package for someone who bought 45,000 billion deposits of old lire for only 60 billion lire. On that occasion, 12,000 billion lire was poured into a bad bank, and farmers, artisans and medium-sized, small and very small businesses were unfortunately placed there and were then subjected not so much to the normal management of a bank credit, but to the executions deriving from those who had purchased those credits at a vile price and profited huge amounts of profits. This is our concern and source of mistrust towards the Government. I cannot dwell on economic policy as a whole. We shall shortly, as it should be, devote more than two weeks to the debate on civil unions, whereas when we are talking about economics in this Parliament, we must do so by tabling amendments to the stability bill and by time, without the possibility of deepening the debate. Mr President, I denounce this because the important facts of the country's life do not find room for debate in this Parliamentary Assembly, just as it has happened for the so-called bank-saving decree and as perhaps it will happen for the reform of the cooperative credit banks that the Government has announced. Therefore, this government does not convince us and has our absolute distrust for all its economic policy, starting with what it tells us about GDP, since it never takes into account the fact that the 1.5 point increase was made possible this year by the decrease in the price of oil and the new exchange rate ratio between the euro and the dollar. Furthermore, there is no issue of the Mezzogiorno. On the political agenda of the Government, the Mezzogiorno is firmly anchored in the last Stability Act, when it was deprived of EUR 4.5 billion of structural funds to stimulate the funds for decontribution. If the President of the Council thinks that the development and territorial cohesion policy of his Government is still in Montaperti, I can tell him that unfortunately the Arbia is filled with the blood of all Italians. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u92	Mr President, first of all I apologise to my colleagues for the delay. It is true that we have asked to anticipate the resumption of the work of this House, but we hoped in the presence of the President of the Council, since Article 95 of the Constitution states that: The President of the Council of Ministers directs the general policy of the Government and is responsible for it. We have not tabled a motion of no confidence against Mr Boschi or the Ministers present at this time in this House, but rather to the Government. As a result, President Renzi's presence would have been quite appropriate. But - alas! - we are used to the absence of the President of the Council, so let's move on. It is true, Minister, that this is a motion of no confidence in the Government, but it is also true that we are well aware of the reasons for it. It is also true, my fellow Senators, that this motion of distrust comes to this House, in my view, at a time not very timely compared to what happened and when we tabled it. I'll explain. When we presented it, we preferred to deal with it in the House of Deputies, where we knew that we had a certain, safe and granite majority rather than the Senate. Do you allow yourself to be treated as the first motion of no confidence in the Senate, when? At a time when, after the constitutional reforms, after the obolescences given in the various Commissions, it is certain that the colleagues elected in the then PdL who are now part of the Verdini Group have already declared that they are willing to vote and why the colleagues who have been elected - alas - in the ranks of the League and who have now come to support this majority have already declared on their website that they will vote against our proposal. Today, therefore, I believe that talking about a motion of no confidence is really out of date and out of the ordinary. However, if in the past some ministers have been put to the sedan for things done by family members or alleged family members (I remember the problem of Minister Idem, or that of former Minister Lupi, or what has been said about Minister Cancellieri), Mr President, we must take stock of the situation also with regard to the case of Bank Etruria. We must not say that there is no conflict of interest in this case because, apparently (it is news that comes and we would like to be disproved by the facts) when the issue of banks in the Council of Ministers was dealt with, Mr Boschi came out of the Chamber. The question that we ask ourselves is whether he did so because his presence was somewhat inappropriate, or for other reasons: to posterity, dear colleagues, the arduous sentence [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Today, Mr President, we are presenting the motion of no confidence to a Government which, in our opinion, has been unable to manage that situation and which at the moment also has international image problems precisely because of the presence of a Minister, the President of the Council and the links, including friendships, between families. As a result, Mr President, it is true that fathers' faults do not fall on their children, but it is equally true that everyone has the parents they have and everyone has the friends they have. We therefore ask Parliament to vote on our motion of no confidence. We know very well that the Senate will vote against it, because that is the case anyway. Today I have publicly said that it is the great "vote of the fallacy, " the vow of those who are afraid of losing the armchair on which they are seated. Go on like this, try to pull as much as possible, so at least at the end of the month you will bring home your salary; our goal is to go and vote as soon as possible, so at least the so-called senators of the cadrega will be swept away. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u93	I call Senator Martelli to explain motion No 510.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u94	Mr President, I do not see Mr Renzi and we were wondering if Minister Boschi was in the process of migrating to that other larger chair, because that is perhaps what you have in mind. When the pleasantries are over, why do we ask here for distrust of the entire Government? Basically because we have asked many of your government's ministers to vote for distrust, so this is only the last act. Precisely, we have asked to distrust Minister Poletti, Minister Guidi, Minister Del Basso de Caro, Minister Giannini, Minister Boschi himself, Minister Martina, albeit in the Chamber, as well as Minister Alfano. The list is very long, you first count those of you for whom we did not ask. Why do we ask? We ask you why we've come to put the icing on the pie of junk. I don't want to make a political attack on the government's actions. This is irrelevant to us, but there are facts that need to be lined up and that testify exactly to a pattern of monstrous conflict of interest. The pattern of this conflict of interest is divided into two parts: the entrepreneurial activities of some parents of members of the Council of Ministers, as well as some activities related to government parliamentary action. I am referring to the popular banking decree, which is the prodrome of what you have combined with the subsequent decree "save four banks." What did you do with the popular bank decree? You have built a list of popular banks that should have changed their statutes and moved from cooperative companies to limited liability with capitarian voting to contendable banks, to SpA, for which there is no longer the capitarian constraint. The vote is one, regardless of the number of actions represented. This made these banks uncontested and what they had in their belly, for better or for worse, could not easily be moved. Randomly, you've set a cutting line to eight billion. Why eight billion? Why not ten? Who invented this number, since the only number circulating within the European Union is 30 billion, which is the cutting line for banks considered to be of systemic interest? So, you made up the figure of 8 billion. Randomly, however, eight billions means bringing the Banca Popolare Etruria and Lazio back on that list. If you fixed the line to 10, you wouldn't go back there, and then you fix it to 8. Of course, it seemed bad to put the exact amount and then you spotted that of 8 billion. You have already put Banca Popolare Etruria and Lazio in a special condition. In addition, this bank, casually, had its father as Vice President: always casually. So, even if you, who are part of this government, say that when these issues were discussed, the question is: to do what? Go to the beautician? Does that sound like a good excuse to you? It doesn't sound like a good excuse to me, so much so that when Berlusconi was playing the game of leaving the Council of Ministers when he passed his own laws, you were in hell. So we're gonna do the same thing? You'll act the same way. Congratulations! As a second action, you passed a decree to save four banks. And someone might say (you said so) that these banks had problems. It's true. Too bad, though, that it was known since 2013. Unfortunately, there is the press, which published a beautiful letter from CONSOB that told the directors of Banca Popolare Etruria and Lazio that the degradation of that bank was irreversible. And it was 2013. From there on the government's action was to allow, while knowing the situation, that the Banca Popolare Etruria and Lazio, representing the bubbon of the four banks, to continue to operate towards the retail customers (that commonly called retail), with methods that were censored. In fact, his father was fined. The methods are false communications to buyers, communications of this type: I give you a trust and, in return, you buy subordinate shares. Someone on television today was reporting exactly that. Or, alteration of the MIFID prospectus, famous legislation that requires the saver to be informed exactly what he goes to buy. Of course, you didn't know anything about that either, but, casually, the deputy director of one of these four institutions had his daughter in the Council of Ministers. Then, at one o'clock, either you don't talk to each other, or you talk about these things as well. How's Banca Popolare Etruria and Lazio? I can't talk about it. Or we'll do this and this one too. But does that seem possible? I don't think you're separated in the house. And this is not a conflict of small interests, but a huge one, which reminds me of the scene of the child near the elephant wondering where the elephant is because it sees only grey. The elephant has it in front of it, but it's so big that he doesn't notice it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This interweaving also involves the other parent of the absentee, because you evidently do good business in your family. Renzi. Yeah, let's make that name. It's not forbidden to mention Mr. Renzi. Mr. Renzi's father did the following operation in 2014. He took over 40% of a company called Party Srl. The other members of this company are multiple, and among them there is a certain Nikita Invest, which owns 40 percent. This Nikita Invest casually took over the Teatro Comunale of Florence when he was Mayor Matteo Renzi. It's another randomity: all these randomities at once are incredible. Well, randomities are like islands: when you remove the water they are all connected. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's move on, because the issue of this company called Nikita is not over, like that famous spy movie "Nikita - Faceless Spies." Evidently also in the name is enclosed the filth: in omen nominations. This company Nikita has in its belly two companies attributable to the State of Panama and two companies that refer to such Lorenzo Rosi, a former manager of Banca Etruria, who owns a piece of a cooperative company of the Castelnuovese group, to which Lorenzo Rosi himself, always casually, had granted trusts. These famous trusts fall into that belly of those more than 200 million trusts granted with a snapper of fingers, because the beauty is this: the People's Bank of Etruria and Lazio has granted trust to people related to someone who is within the Government and that seems more than enough to say one thing, since I think I have got enough of arguments: you have to go home quickly, you of the Government and you of the majority who support them. Adios! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u95	I declare the debate open. Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether what has appeared in the newspapers these days is true, but there is a question that each of us must ask ourselves and, more than we who are in opposition, should ask who is the majority and who is supporting this Government. I am referring to the question we hear repeated and which we read in the newspapers: is it true that there is a foundation, apparently called the Open Foundation, which supported the electoral campaigns - before and after - of our President-in-Office? Is it true that this foundation is supported by a group of shareholders present in the old or new Etruria Bank and that the foundation is supported by a company called Intesa Aretina Scarl? Is that true or not? However, if this corresponds to reality, I ask myself to better understand who this society corresponds to, what it does, how it behaves, what it manages. This company operates the integrated water service for 31 municipalities in Tuscany. We should discuss this matter a lot and also with friends who support this majority - I open a parenthesis and close it immediately - and understand what integrated service means, what is the usefulness. However, this is another subject, so I close this parenthesis immediately. However, from what we read in the newspapers and from what we hear, at the head of all these operations there is a gentleman who becomes a point of reference of the whole, who in these days is heeded by the chronicles and newspapers for the role he should go to play. It is a Carrai, to whom the President of the Council - together with this Government - would like to entrust the security of our country. However, this gentleman, from what we learn (and I address those who are on the other side of the barricade), collected money to give Renzi and his friends the opportunity to campaign. Isn't there something screaming a little in the fact that there is a gentleman who raises money and is in charge of an organization to bring people to make payments and give contributions aimed at financing an electoral campaign, and then at a distance of time - it happens - some of those who financed that election campaign find themselves Ministers of this Government and this gentleman is called to manage and guarantee the security of our country? The newspapers report, dear President, that to finance these dinners that were then to serve for the election campaigns of our President-in-Office of the Council are the gentlemen who bear the names I hope to find among these cards, because there is a very long list within which there are people we all know well and I want to quote them. I am referring to Ermete Realacci, Francesco Bonifazi, Ernesto Carbone, Davide Faraone, Dario Nardella and Ivan Scalfarotto, who is State Secretary at the Ministry of Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament and is present within our Government. And, by chance, this gentleman not only financed before he even played this role, but was organic to a project that was the project not of the Italians, but of a group and a lobby that had an interest in creating the conditions of deterioration of our country, our Republic, our State. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] But besides that, there is a certain Luca Lotti, who finances the election campaign with 9,600 euros and more. These are names that could be important or not, but the most important thing is, dear President, that within these funders and groups there are people who have high responsibilities within the banks that we are discussing these days. But be careful! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. I want to conclude: within the foundation and, more than this, within that company that bears a strange name and that a few minutes ago I mentioned, two are the important partners: the Etruria Bank and the Mount of the Paschi of Siena! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] You should be ashamed to play the role! I do not know whether these arguments respond to truth or not, but surely there is a difficulty in representing your image to the country and political dignity wants or would like you, Minister, to resign immediately with the Government, because if this and what happened in these days had occurred with a President of the Council who had a surname different from that of Renzi, at this time there would have been barricades outside and the left, present in this Parliament and outside of it, not only would have lifted the barricades but would have held the rifles to shoot on sight! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This is a shame, but not for us and for you, but for that center-left people who believe in some values and who today have created the conditions to mortify! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u97	We greet the students, the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo - Don Lorenzo Milani - Ariano Irpino, in the province of Avellino, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u98	Senator Davico is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u99	Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in this debate on behalf of the moderates in the Group of the Great Autonomous and Freedoms, which, as you know, expresses and collects various sensitivities. The motion of distrust of the Renzi Government, which we are debating today, seems to us to be untimely and presumptuous: the budget of this Executive, today more than ever, gives reason to those who, like those who speak to it, have consistently chosen to support its action. This morning is the news of the growth of consumer confidence in the country's economy. This confidence has been at its most historical for more than two decades now, which, for a macroeconomic mechanism of easy understanding, gives the sign of a recovery of the economy of which, after eight years of deep crisis, we must take note to look with greater optimism at the coming years and exploit these signs of recovery to regain awareness of the potential of our country. Last week saw the light of a measure so much urged by public opinion as that of the constitutional reform of perfect bicameralism and Title V, on the relations between State and local authorities, which will in any case be subjected to the scrutiny of a popular referendum that will give citizens voice on the choices made by Parliament inspired by the government, which linked its very survival to this reform. Only yesterday, in European offices, the Government reached the desired goal of a difficult understanding for the recovery of the suffering of Italian credit institutions. The agreement, as Commissioner Vestager himself admitted, should further improve the ability of banks to finance the real economy and virtuously guide economic recovery and growth. According to all the parties involved, there will be no burden on the state budget, on citizens and savers, for the realization of a bad bank with an independent management and under the control of the European Commission, which will collect and record the enormous suffering that Italian banks have accumulated because of the difficulty (which in many cases is really impossible!) on their part to collect the debts of private individuals and entrepreneurs overwhelmed by an economic crisis that no one in this House, if only for reasons of intellectual honesty and consistency, will dream of minimizing. We are at the point in question in this motion: the choices made by the Government on the rescues of four Italian banks. Beyond the recipes, many times seemingly salvific, even if more imaginative and devoid of concreteness, offered by many economists often improvised, we moderate believe that making choices with the aim of solving the problem, when the concrete interests of the saver citizens and their families are at stake, is always the way to be preferred. In this case, the choices stigmatized by those who want to make rudimentary clubs to be brandished against the opponent from time to time identified have been much more than ever shared. These decisions were also subject to the very close proximity of the European Commission to competition and financial stability which threatened Italy with sanctions in the event of State aid. The so-called bank rescue has instead allowed to give continuity to the credit activity and to the relative working relationships, protecting fully the currentists from eventual volatilization of the savings. All the exceptions that are raised, we believe boldly, are the result of a hating good olternism which with political action and, even more so, with government action must have nothing to do with it. We have so much hoped that this was the time of the choices and it is for this reason that a Government that looks to the interest of 50 million Italians deserves our confidence, that we moderate, even if we do not oppose prejudice to further investigation and investigation on eventual and other responsibilities - certainly dated - that have led to such an emergency, we will express with our no convinced to the motion of distrust of the oppositions. [[Applause from Senator Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u100	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u101	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, the text of the motion we are debating puts important issues to our attention which, as such, deserve to be addressed. When it is recalled, for example, that many savers claim that they have not been sufficiently informed by their institutions about the danger of shares and bonds, that they have been invited to subscribe to them, an issue is introduced that is particularly close to my heart and that is that of the rules on the placement of savings products and such as the commercial pressures to sell, that exist in any investment institution or company, generate, these yes, real conflicts of interest, if not of conscience in the operators. On this subject I also put a question, exactly on 11 June last year, in which I pointed out to the Minister of Labour as in recent years, with regard, for example, to specialist producers in the insurance sector, company policies have distinguished themselves by a continuous increase in budgets and objectives to be achieved, by the scarcity of professional outlets and by the continuous reductions in provisions, significantly reducing, to equal results, the incomes of most of the category. I was also aware of how, among the parameters to be met in order not to be reduced to production premiums, there was also, for a couple of years, the obligation to place savings products with a share component with the risk of encouraging an offer of such products even to customers with a lower risk profile. What I said was just an example of a very worrying general situation, which continues to be too neglected. That is why I can only agree, when we say in motion 501: In addition, the Bank of Italy's alleged lack of supervision, as a supervisory body, suggests the need to ascertain the truth of the facts that led the 4 banks to the risk of default. Right. But the problem is not only limited to the four banks (Cariferrara, Banca Marche, Popolare dell'Etruria and Carichieti). We are talking today about the subordinated bonds of Banca Etruria, for what happened and why there is the father of Minister Boschi involved. But the subordinated bonds did not invent this Government, they were not sold only by the banks we discuss and are not the only products that are sold lightly by the operators, i.e. without specifying the risks associated with the investment. Do we think that all those who put money in cooperatives - in my part of Tuscany, it is quite common to have "the Coop account" or give money to construction cooperatives, like Unica - are aware of the type of investment they are making and the risks involved? It would have been interesting to vote on a motion for the protection of savers and for the promotion of financial education in Italy, a country from this very ignorant point of view. We call for financial education which obliges banks to make a clear distinction between a shareholder participating in the bank's capital and a mere bond holder. But we know that instead the theme of the conned bondholders is now used instrumentally, just as it is a pretext the dissoul of the friendships and relationships of the father of the Minister, so much so that the same motion n. 501, after a whole series of illations on which it will still be fair to shed light, admits that it will be the task of the judicial bodies to ascertain any civil and criminal responsibilities that arise from a spoiled management of power for personal interests. Responsibility, at the moment, not established. So ultimately we are here, beyond the contingent pretext, to vote yes or no to the Renzi Government. Historically, starting from our previous political affiliation, if it had been for us, this government would have had no reason to be there. If it were up to me and my colleague, Mr Romani, we would have lived in Italy an attempt like that which is perhaps carried out today in Spain by Podemos and the Socialists. There would be a different government coalition and a different Premier (no staff, of course). Or perhaps there would have been none of this; perhaps a part of the Democratic Party would have killed this attempt in the crib and the legislature would have ended immediately. But, in all probability, Renzi would still be mayor of Florence, at the second luster. Instead, thanks to the choices of the leaders of the 5 Star Movement, history took a different course and another verse. Today there is no political alternative to the Renzi Government. If Renzi falls, we cannot even go to elections without changing the electoral law again. In all likelihood, institutional reforms would be postponed once again; we would have a political crisis, in a difficult and delicate economic and international context to address. There would be another technical government and who knows what might be able to do this time. For this reason, we will vote 'no' to distrust, because we have faith in a legislature that, thanks to oppositions, can reserve other important moments and developments, not only on civil unions or institutional reforms, but also on the fight against corruption and guaranteed minimum income. In this legislature and with this Government we will be able to resolve definitively the drama of the exodus, correct the Fornero reform, introduce the flexibility coming out of work and revise the usurious works. Therefore, for confidence in the work that we still have to do and that awaits us in the coming months, Italy of Values votes "no" to the motions of distrust. [[Applause from Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u102	He is registered to speak Senator Marino Luigi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u103	Mr President, Forza Italia and Lega Nord, with the presence and extraordinary addition - as they say in the trailers - of the 5 Star Movement, have presented motions of distrust to the current Government, which the People's Area Group does not share at all. Not only do we consider it useful for the country to be the reforming path pursued by the Government, however, but in the specific matter of the motion we believe that the Government has carried out its task well and that its members have behaved well. Every day in this House we hear the exaltation of simplicity, the illusion that in a complex world everything is easy, at hand, and that the solutions are immediately there, around the corner. Easyness uses the tools of mud, misinformation, demagogy and arrogance. The government is based on a majority that has passed different and difficult trials, and it is certainly not these motions that question it. These motions will end up frustrating the opposition they have presented to them because they exude inconsistency; indeed, due to the inconsistency the government will be able to count on other votes. I will not comment on the motion of the 5 Star Movement because it is additional, of the last minute and marries the culture of suspicion and relapse on sons and daughters of eventual responsibilities of the fathers. I will try to comment on the seven pages of the motion of distrust of Forza Italia and Lega Nord. I went in search of the so-called smoking gun test, which I did not find, because in the key passages of the motion the following terms are used: "presumably", "potentially", "presumed lack". It is assumed on the basis of conjecture; a criminal theory is constructed on appearances or on something that exists in the state of power. In essence, according to the oppositions, the Government would have favoured non-anomal operations, but potentially abnormal on the securities of the popular banking sector before 16 January 2015. I believe that cats were also aware of Pulcinella's secret and that the government wanted to intervene on the people for months, just as today it intends to intervene on cooperative credit banks. Using the same terminology and logic can be accused of market disturbance both the ECB and Draghi for having activated those information procedures on suffering and stranded, which contributed to creating panic in the stock market, thus contributed to the depreciation of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena bonds and finally allowed Algebris company (of course comrade Serra) to have bought the subordinates Tier2 at a low price. The smoking gun of the motion is therefore the discovery of hot water: that is to say, it discovers that the stockbrokers are not allocchi, do not heat the chairs or live in inindia. The motion uses a statement by the President of CONSOB that, in January 2015 (as I understand it, especially after 16 January) and until 5 February 2015, the headlines of the people increase by 56 percent thus constituting operations "potentially abnormal": this is reported in the motion. On those operations, potentially abnormal, oppositions justify a motion of distrust of the Government. One wonders why Forza Italia and Lega Nord have not put in the sights, beyond the Bank of Italy (as it is written on page 4 of the motion), also the CONSOB of President Vegas that would have had a year of time to cancel the "presumable" and the "potentially", proceeding with a criminal complaint for market disturbance. [[Applause from the PD Group]] On the other hand, we take note of the difficult and stable work of the banking system of Banca d'Italia and CONSOB, not without noting that there may be problems of overlapping in the structure of market regulation. In the inconsistent reconstruction of the motion of Forza Italia and Lega Nord, there appears to us an evil and at the same time masochistic government, determined to charge shareholders and bondholders the account of the liquidation crisis of the four banks even against its own interest. Nothing further from reality. The banking system and the Italian Government immediately pursued the path of the interbank fund that would save subordinated bonds (which was already devalued by the market). The motion omits the passages of the armed forces supported by the Government with the European Commission. The motion omits the letter that the commission had to write to the Italian Government on 19 November 2015: the letter requested by the Italian Government itself. The motion fails to say that any government that respects the rules (even those that do not like them because the first moral rule is to respect the rules, if anything to fight them if they are not good, but to respect them) only remained the only open road with the resolution fund. The motion of the League and of Forza Italia, moreover, fails to say that if we had gone beyond 2015, in the arm wrestling with the European Commission, all the bonds (subordinate and no) and the current accounts over 100,000 euros would have remained involved. The motion fails to say that if the interbank fund had taken place, the effect would have been null and counterproductive because the funds should have been set aside, Italy would have been subject to an infringement procedure and almost all savers and customers (families and businesses) would not have been tragically involved. Finally, the motion omits to say that the decree-law saved a million savers, allowed the operation of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, and 7,000 employees continue to receive the salary. Among these - as Minister Boschi reminded the House - is not his brother. But in the motion, on the other hand, there is a falsehood that says a lot about the good faith of the extensors. In fact, on page three, it is said that the brother of the same Minister treated the credit sector and is involved in a judicial investigation for false communications. This does not correspond to the truth. According to the above-mentioned motion, the so-called humanitarian measures aimed at protecting the weak groups (i.e. the solidarity fund of EUR 100 million) would be the implicit recognition of the responsibility of the Government. This would be the smoking gun. This statement is commented on by itself. The subordinated bonds of the four banks had a value of € 786 million. Yet, almost 60% were institutional investors. Of the remaining 329 million, 120 million are exposed and of average exposure and 208 million are of those who invested in the subordinates less than 30 percent of their financial assets, in all 10,500 people, not, as the motion says 100,000 people who would see the savings of a lifetime go up in smoke. That's not true! I do not say this to argue but to point out that most of those who have subscribed to subordinated bonds were not at all unprovoked and I do not say this to minimize. We have a duty to defend savings, to drive away the fear of betrayed savings. I am not sure that there will be a day - in the world, not in Italy - when finance will be a glass house and the opacity will be reset. I know, however, that, day after day, both institutions (especially control institutions) and saver citizens need to grow in awareness that information, controls and risk assessments go hand in hand and that better returns always correspond to higher risks. It will never be written in a constitution or a law that a state cannot fail, let alone a bank! The negative events of the stock exchange these days (especially in the banking sector) impose reflections on the way and the tones with which politics discusses the world of credit. The years of the crisis have burned almost 10 points of GDP and almost 25% of industrial production. If the outstanding claims have exploded in the banks' belly, it is not only the responsibility of managers and administrators who are incapable or swindled. Between 2008 and 2015, deteriorated loans increased from 40 billion to 350 billion: also and above all due to the crisis. The government has gone the right way: first the decree-law on the people, then the decree-law on the four banks of November 2015 then, with the last law of stability and, in these days, with the robust confrontation with the European Commission on credit in distress. Of course, the suspicion remains that Italy is using double standards, and the President-in-Office of the Council is right to recall that Europe is a Europe of peoples and not a Europe of technocracies. Does it make sense, then, to raise inconclusive dusts? Does the clumsy attempt to overwhelm the institutions to get a handful of votes make sense, and perhaps not even that? Does it make sense to feed a campaign of becero scandalism? Do these two "combicchiate" motions make any sense? We are concerned that any individual and collective responsibility and faults are identified by the judiciary, not by politics. Rather, it is at our heart to strengthen the Italian banking system, credit in Italy, support our regulatory institutions, support the Government in its efforts to defend the interests of our country. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u104	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when Prime Minister Renzi continues to guarantee his presence on TV and not in this House, if not at the end of this debate - when he comes - and continues to say that our banking system is solid, it is right to ask whether he is lying to the Italians or whether he demonstrates his complete ignorance of the matter. The words of hope are not enough for savers cheated by the so-called bank rescue decree, wanted by the Government for Banca Etruria, Banca Marche, CariChieti and CariFerrara, which is only an unjustified media campaign in defense of the work of the Berlusconian-style government and as an embosser of popular markets, useful to paint without shame an idyllic economic situation for the country. The reality, however, dear Ministers and dear Boschi, is quite different. In recent days, your President, Mr Renzi, has not only uttered no word of condemnation for bankers who devour the deposits of savers and who make fraud and budgetary falseness the only rules of their modus operandi - I am sorry that Minister Boschi is moving away from this House - but he has in some ways endorsed libertic and anti-democratic rules to protect them from the action of justice, dear colleague Marino. These short-sighted conducts prove to be very profitable for them, but they have tragic consequences for savers, imprisoned, without their knowledge, in those toxic securities that pulverize the savings of a lifetime, crippling the principle of trust that is the basis of banking and financial activity. The bankers' fraud and false budgets are the pillars of a system that also feeds on the ineffectiveness and inertia of the control mechanisms and an indisputable ability of the banking lobby to finance and control the policy, subjecting it to 360 degrees action to its own wishes and needs. There are two fundamental passages that constitute the documented proof of this servitude: the first is the approval of legislative decree no. 385 of September 1, 1993, better known as the single text of the laws in banking and credit matters, which in fact abolished the distinction between credit and savings banks and investment banks, allowing bankers to hijack, in the unregulated or subordinated markets, high-risk investments instead of in the real economy the deposits of savers. By the way, even MIFID tables are not clear. The second step is the gradual privatisation of Banca D'Italia, with the entry among its shareholders of those same credit institutions that should be controlled by the same Central Bank. A good government, colleagues, worthy of the trust of its citizens and of those who represent citizens in an institutional way, does not hide the mistakes to cover the interests of part and personal. The credit sufferings of many Italian banks arise not only from the crisis of the real economy, but from these distortions and bad management, linked to a system of parties, which only care for their interests. In conclusion, Mr President, Etruria Bank, saved with savers' money, after the family members of Minister Boschi have combined them in all kinds of ways, is not the only reality to be taken into account: there is another very indicative one. Before the decree saves banks, which devalued Bank Etruria's outstanding claims by 17.5%, the same bank placed them on the market at 50%, as if it knew in advance that they would be devalued. So I have a clear feeling that it will not be easy for Mr Renzi to respond to this. CariChieti is at risk of bankruptcy and the foundation started counterattacking, saying that Bankitalia is in the crosshairs. Savers can be easily protected by a law establishing, first, the clear distinction between credit and savings banks and business and investment banks. You have ears, however, only for those strong powers, which without going through the popular and democratic vote, have placed you on armchairs to "obviously" play your role. We cannot subscribe to this and we cannot fail to ask for the distrust of Renzi and his Government, which has no difficulty in playing the role of puppet, instead of defending our country and its citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u106	Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u107	Mr President, I would like to make an anticipation which I believe Parliament should accept and I believe that this is also the will of the Government: I am referring to the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the banking system. I would like to take this opportunity, having a few minutes, to remind you of what has happened to me personally: tomorrow I am celebrating the second year from the request of a Commission of Inquiry into the question of the Maròs. I therefore hope that the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system will have a different fate. Coming to the merit of the motion, in the general babel, where the greatest ostentation is reserved to the theories of the obvious, it also happens that you can find some good person, like Senator Marino, to make the fig leaf for unspeakable things. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] Instead, I would like to try to make a much simpler, almost scholastic reasoning. Public opinion is fundamentally stunned and does not understand what happens. If we were a normal country, the press would inform, Parliament would make the laws, the government should carry out the will of Parliament and therefore operate according to the majorities that represent it, the magistrates would conduct the investigations, aimed at ascertaining the truth and not at determining careers, which then lead them to make mayors or parliamentarians, and the Presidents of the Republic - I take the last step - should be the guarantors of the Constitution. This cannot be said of the previous President: for the present, we will see if that is the case. It would be so, if this were a normal country, but since this is not a normal country, the press creates a world of confusion, because, in most cases, it serves the prince of duty and Parliament is totally exonerated from its functions, because the laws are determined by the Government, which with 40 or 45 decrees-laws determines the conduct of the country. What does that mean? Does it mean that we do what should be the genetic data, that is, the interest of the people? No, you determine the powers. If so, as it was, then the reading of the motion of distrust starts from afar, exactly from the moment it was decided, with a decree-law and a vote of confidence, to make the reform of the popular banks. The drawings are very fine. I find it paradoxical that the going of the plutocracy that is going to rise to the government of this country is determined by the party that should defend the interests of the workers. I find that frankly paradoxical. The decree-law on popular banks was the road to reform the four banks indicted and to be able to basically heal a whole series of interests that are not divine, that is the interests of those who should do other and not deal instead with the climbs to the economic power of our country. Why? What's unspeakable? When politics enters the world of finance cases such as that of Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena occur. And then everything that has been created and happened is conducive to saving bank interests and economic worlds that have profited together with politics. The motion of no confidence in the Government is moving exactly along this line: I am referring to a President of the Council who is totally committed to the occupation of power stations and economic powers. I would like to say a few words here about issues that are usually fired very easily. There is a question of public opinion and many of the moderates, even though - strangely - so moderate in the search for the places to be occupied are not. In fact, what is being done in this House? Do we make the laws? No, we only and exclusively deal with the political careers of those who obviously do not know what to do tomorrow. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The basic problem is: what will I do in 2018? Very often this has been the compensation chamber of characters who in life have realized very little. From this point of view, there is a fundamental fact that we must bring to the interest of the public and that very often enters the minds of the moderates without finding a solution. The question I often hear is: who after Renzi? Why send Renzi home? The answer that comes to me is a huge simplicity: after Renzi, anyone. I repeat, anyone. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Nugnes]] This is the fundamental fact: if Renzi has been able to act as President of the Council, anyone else will be able to do so. If those who settle in their place had the decency to respect at least the fundamental rules of our country, then we could begin to think of becoming a normal country. I am thinking of a well-known member of the Democratic Party, who continues to call himself Massimo D'Alema, who said something that I often did not share, but did not share when parliamentary relations were correct, that is, when there was a dialectic between majority and opposition (I have always thought of the Anglo-Saxon countries): when there is a government, the objective must be to be able to govern the country and the opposition must represent the different instances, which are perhaps not those of the majority of the moment. In our country this does not happen anymore, there is no more a dialectical confrontation: the majority reigns within the institutions. Then D'Alema is right when he says today that the objective of opposition must be only and exclusively to send the majority home. This is a necessary time. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u108	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u109	Mr President, the speeches by my colleagues, my group leader and Mr Di Maggio, on the motions of distrust of the Government have very effectively illustrated the reasons for our initiative. On the sad story of the Etruria Bank there are many suspicions and certainties. There are obvious suspicions about a conflict of interest of a Minister and the Premier in the management of banking crises that have involved many Italian savers. There are suspicions of the relationship of interest between their family members and the activity of one of these institutions, the Etruria Bank. There are, then, investigations by the judiciary in which serious crime is intertwined: insider trading, auction disturbance, extortion, fraudulent bankruptcy. There are suspicions that the choices made by the Government in the decree-laws of 24 January and 22 November 2015 (decree-laws, not laws carried out by the parliamentary initiative) were conditioned by these obvious conflicts of interest. Then, Mr President, there are also serious certainties. First of all, the Government has protected the administrators of these banks by securing them from liability initiatives against them. There are certainties that in the decree of November 22 there was no compulsory choice: there were various options and certainly the one that was chosen was not the best. With that decree-law the Renzi Government has dropped the responsibilities of few on the shoulders and on the skin of 100,000 people, of 100,000 Italian citizens, on families of bondholders and shareholders cheated and robbed without that the Government has been able or wanted to protect them. That, Mr President, is not a suspect, it is a certainty. The Renzi Government has not been able to avoid this grave injustice [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , indeed, it has endorsed and ratified it with a decree-law, put its signature on it and if it is an accomplice, brag about it. Mr President, it is not suspicious, it is a certainty. The bank's financial turmoil is certainly not over, it has just begun and so are the scams that will be carried out against savers. Parliament can no longer entrust this Government with the responsibility to deal with these very serious uncertainties, which put at risk the savings of our families' lives and bank credit for our businesses. The country can no longer trust you and Parliament can only take note of this before it is too late. If the Senate does not do so, it will assume a very serious responsibility. It's not like I'm shooting again. You're sinking the country into public debt and the blackest crisis. We are aware that the Government will still be able to count on the support of the Democratic Party and the Transfugees - this is - of the New Right Centre; however, we consider it shameful that some parliamentary groups and groups will keep this Government alive, continuing to say hypocritically that they are in opposition. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] This House has become a suq, a market for consensus and personal interests. [[Applause from Senator Castaldi]] If the future of our country were not at stake, this show would be simply ridiculous; since it is, instead, debates and choices of great importance, it is an indecorous and unqualifiable behavior [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] President Renzi will still be able to gain confidence from these parliamentary classrooms; he has certainly long lost that of the citizens, or perhaps, Mr President, he has never had it. No, therefore, to the Government of the conflict of interest and scams to savers. No and total distrust of the North League to the Renzi Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u110	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u111	Mr President, I take advantage of the presence in the Chamber of the dear and kind Minister Franceschini to try a similitude that gives the sense of what I mean: to cover the shames of the Capitoline Venus it was enough boxes; to cover the shames of the Etruria Bank you had to reform the popular banks. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator De Pin]] In other words, the mutual nature of that type of credit activity had to be distorted to cover something that was wrong. As far as I'm concerned, it's more than enough to vote for the distrust of this government, and I have to be honest: it doesn't fascinate me, it doesn't attract me, and it's against personalistic aggressions that would criminalize attitudes of this or that member of the government. It's government business that doesn't work. Just because that is true, I want to use the remaining time to say that this vote of distrust is almost redundant, almost superfluous, because the Government, in particular the President of the Council, has already been distrusted and in three minutes I would like to say by whom and when. It has been distrusted because the attitude used to manage the issue of Italian debt has really risked and risks triggering a crisis that can infect the whole of Europe. To disarm it, it was enough to use the six billion euros that Renzi wasted to remain in power. It is well known that in its latest report, the European Commission has warned Italy of the high risks it faces in the medium term for its high public debt, and it is a message that comes when Europe, under pressure from the arrival of a wave of refugees, calls into question Schengen and the principle of free movement. The link between the two is obvious. The borders of the European Union are subject to control, not to prevent European citizens from moving freely from one place to another, but to control possible illegal immigration and the associated risks of terrorism. Schengen is a symbol, in short, rather than a necessary condition for the functioning of the European economy. On the day that this happens, the European Union wants to reiterate, especially in the fundamentals, that economic matters are the real priority. For the European Commission, the Italian debt is more dangerous and damages European cohesion much more than the suspension of Schengen. There is no doubt that Germany also has its responsibilities, because it could be imagined that borders could not be opened indiscriminately. Thus, now, Austria and the Scandinavian countries are reacting by closing their borders completely. In this affair, Europe as a whole does not make a good impression; it therefore relies on economic parameters to show that even if we derogate from Schengen, the European project is moving forward. The fact that Renzi has ignored the rules on deficit and debt, while the monetary expansion of the ECB, which is used to combat deflation, has already put Italy in serious risk. Already immediately there are negative repercussions on the stock exchange, which are added to those related to the price of oil and the Chinese economy. A possible debt crisis would infect Europe, making it lose its credibility as it is incapable of exercising control over our country. It is well known that Italy is much larger than Greece and one of its difficulties would lead to the collapse of the eurozone. It would only take a little time to solve these problems. In 2016. the deficit-to-GDP ratio will be 2.5% instead of 1.8%, as expected by the fiscal compact. Our primary surplus will only be 0.1%, while at least 0.4% would be needed. It would be enough for the government to opt for a deficit-GDP of 2.1%, saving 6 billion euros more, which is then the money that Renzi uses to remain in power. The problem is that these considerations, which I have made in extreme synthesis and with little motivation, have well understood them outside our borders and that is why Renzi was distrusted. The European Commission is considering scraping it and making sure that the President of the Republic appoints another Commissioner on behalf of Brussels. It will once again be a figure not elected by the people, who can be welcomed by this Presidency of the Republic and also by the coalition of Government, because the first to know that Matteo Renzi was distrusted are among the benches of the PD. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] The new Premier will have to solve the problem of debt, which Renzi failed to focus and manage and which, indeed, with its unlikely behavior, tends to cover the shames of the Bank Etruria as the shames of the Capitoline Venus have been covered, has further aggravated. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and LAG groups (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and Senator Malan]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u112	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u113	Mr President, I must say that what I have heard so far reminds me of an expression by Marx, when he says that the wind of words does not grind the mills of history. I must also thank Senator Di Maggio when explicitly, by banning all the circumvolutions around nothing, he told us that the main aim of the opposition is inevitably to send this Government home, immaculately, regardless of any context and any evaluation of merit on the facts and attitudes that are proposed in the parliamentary classrooms. So in this is the voidness, if not the useless, of the motions that we are called to evaluate. I started out this way because I'd like to cut some grass under the backstage. The AL-A Group is opposed to these motions, because it does not agree with them on the subject and I will try to give some ideas in addition to what I have given here so far. This does not represent the bestowal of a vote of confidence to the Government, from which we are still distinct and distant. Therefore, let us make our statements because we are entering into the substance of a parliamentary act that is being submitted to us, which is useless, because we discussed in this House a few weeks ago what the Government has done or proposed in relation to the vicissitudes of the banks and on that occasion everyone has said his or hers and has been able to express his or her opinion. It seemed to me, however, to understand that the Government has accompanied this measure with other determinations: it has entrusted Raffaele Cantone and ANAC with the screening of the individual positions of the bondholders and shareholders, having already saved tout court the position of the accountants. In fact, it must be said that not everyone has been unknowingly defrauded in these circumstances. There are also people who have knowingly bought shares or bonds of this bank at an interest rate of 12%, with a yield of 10 percentage points higher than that of government bonds, thus making an investment and thus taking the risk itself. However, it will be Canton who will determine what only speculative positions and which instead deserve that the State, therefore the taxpayer, goes to the rescue for a motion of solidarity to those who have been cheated or cheated. I remind myself that the crisis of these four banks is basically the crisis of those local banks, the popular or similar banks, which are the ones that, unlike others, give money to small entrepreneurs. In this House, for a year and a half now, and in the political debate, all of us have stigmatized and deprecated the fact that, within the framework of the measures that the European Union has taken to refocus the amount of circulating liquid, the large banks, who take money, if they want, from that appropriate fund established by the European Central Bank to 1%, have almost totally used that money to buy government bonds, BOTs or CCTs, and thus to make mere speculation, without giving loans, without financing projects and without supporting either small, medium or large enterprises. Since these are territorial banks, in which the clientele is handed down for generations, they have suffered from a crisis that is the Italian one, which has been dragging for six or seven years, and it is clear that if the entrepreneur who has had the financing, the subsidy or the mortgage to do what he has asked to do is invested by such a serious crisis and so long can do nothing but return what he has obtained. And the Etruria Bank - since it is chosen for reasons of political speculation between all four - has only suffered from the deterioration of the credit, which did not happen from evening to morning, but takes place over a period of time that lasts for more than one lustre. Now, if we have obtained these measures and have asked for a special parliamentary committee of inquiry, why are we going to do everything we have to do tonight, anticipating, unheard of, the results of the investigations that canton is carrying out and that the parliamentary committee of inquiry will carry out? As my colleague Mr Di Maggio said, the main purpose of these motions is to send the government home regardless of any context. In May he will excuse me: we are at the famous aphorism: "Piove, Government thief!" Beyond this I see nothing but someone who has had a difficult childhood, and around there are many politicians who, being excandent as politicians, aspire to be prosecutors or, as master Titta of the Rugantino, to be executioners, and therefore are moments of arrogance of political and parliamentary activity. In fact, where can we draw from today, here in this House, reasons of conviction to place responsibility on the Government so that the Government, on the basis of these supposed hypothetical responsibilities, deserves to go home? I take, like others, the pretentious polemic against Minister Boschi, to whom I would like to say, repairing even some sharp judgements of the past, that these should review a bit 'the Greek mythology: Nemesis, the goddess of vengeance, entered the field when there was an evil action and fought the hybrid, which was the transcotanza, the evil will of man to overcome moral and material limits. Don't worry, she is only the daughter of a father who, until proven otherwise, has done his job: the hybrid has not yet been identified and therefore there is no Nemesis, but there is no Nemesis of Fate: in fact if Nemesis manifests itself through these deus ex machina that propose the distrust or a creeping criticism, she can be quiet, because the tragedy will not end and here tonight I see only theatres! [[Applause from the AL-A Group and Senator Buemi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u114	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank those present for the motions of mistrust because they allow us to hear members of the majority who so often remain silent to listen to our lai against the measures of the Government; I am referring to the members of the newly arrived majority or to the members of any majority in our country in recent years. We as Other Europe with Tsipras, together with the Italian Left, have the task of defending the many with respect to the few. In this case it is easy - I think - to identify which side to stand and against whom to stand. In the question of banks, the Government, with its own emergency measures, has protected the managers of which will now go to verify the type of responsibility, whether purely managerial or other, and has chosen to sacrifice people who had invested the few hard-earned savings in types of investment to which they would never have had access. We are of the idea that this Government is inadequate to defend the majority of Italians; apart from the individual, this seems to us to be the figure of this Government. Attention, this is a political judgment. I do not want to go looking, as a colleague said earlier, for the smoking gun; it is enough for me to see the dead on the ground (unfortunately, in this case, it is not just a figurative speech). What I am interested to see is what kind of behavior this majority adopts in order to avoid repeating these facts and to ensure that multitudes of savers, generally unaware, are spared. My colleague, Mr D'Anna, referred to the establishment of the Commission for the investigation of banks. Now, from aphorism to aphorism, in general, I have heard several times that when you do not want to solve a problem, a Commission is set up. The problem is clear and I read it in an article that I found this afternoon. Here we are talking about an executive of the Etruria Bank who described how they were lured - let's say the term - the saving customers, who did not understand absolutely what they were buying, by employees blackmailed with the mechanism of penalties or intercompany premiums to ensure that those securities, which could not go to unwitting subjects, were to those sold. Here the problem is to verify - and we are presenting a bill in this sense - who profiles customers, who identifies customers to sell high-risk products and who identifies products that cannot be sold to those customers. There is legislation, MIFID, but how is it applied? Who's going to identify and profile the client? The same employee who has to sell the financial product to him; this is happening. It is then useless to set up committees to measure the length and weight of matches: fire is before us; we can see without any particular effort what the problem is. The banking system is not for savers, but it is for those who raise them and then use them in the financial market. So if we really want to affect the situation of Italian citizens, those who have 20,000, 30,000 or 40,000 euros (the savings of a lifetime) and put them in the hands of a bank's financial advisor, we must take away from that financial consultant the burden of deciding whether that customer is suitable or not suitable for that product. The customer must be protected by a third party and this is a political responsibility. I do not see, on the part of the majority, a movement in this direction, but I see, on the part of the majority, a movement to protect those who take advantage of this situation today. That is why I believe that this Government is inadequate. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bocchino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u116	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u117	Mr President, I am pleased that President Renzi has arrived; we expected him to arrive at the last, in favour of the cameras. This government clearly represents the idea of the ruling class that the strong powers, those who speculate about our country, want to lead our country. In fact it is the demonstration of how a mayor, not quite transparent, can be rewarded in the climb of power. With constitutional reform, in fact, you will give this prize not only to mayors, but also to regional councillors. But let's go back to the motion of no confidence. The President of the Council Renzi has shown to date that he is able to govern only through tweets and various slogans. In fact, if we go to analyze the evolution of its political and institutional activity, we can say that the decay is clearly evident. The scandals that involved Matteo Renzi when he was president of the Province of Florence and then mayor of the same city are known. To this day some events remain surrounded by mystery and no one knows with certainty what the truth is. But the scandals and mysteries did not abandon dear Matteo Renzi, indeed, followed him to Rome: appointments, contacts and business not really transparent, involving him, his family and his government team. The list would be far too long for the five minutes I have available. It would not be enough for the senators present in this House to explain to you the coincidences and mysterious events of this Government. The scandal of the Etruria Bank is only one of the last events involving some members of the Government. Since its establishment in February 2014, the Government has been at the center of unclear facts. Let's start with the apartment paid by his friend Carrai, in which President Renzi had taken the residence for opportunity; or by the appointment of the former chief of the municipal police of Florence, Antonella Manzione, sister of the undersecretary Domenico Manzione, head of the Department for Legal and Legislative Affairs of Palazzo Chigi, on which he depended as consultant, until December 31, 2015, the attorney chief of Arezzo Roberto Rossi, who did not remember having met Daddy Boschi during his career. Not to mention several events involving ministers Alfano, Poletti, Guidi, Lorenzin, Giannini, Boschi and Martina, which have led us to present, in these two years, motions of distrust still not calendarized. Finally, we have the Rolex episode. In fact, since he has arrived, I take this opportunity to remind you that, as the Senate Commissioner, I have requested access to the acts, with simultaneous visit to the room of gifts. When you want to accompany me, I am available, even at the end of today's sitting. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All these episodes are certainly not facts that can lead to regaining the title of honest democratic state. We have passed from the Berlusconian twenty years to the Renzian two years, but things have not changed at all, indeed conflicts of interest have increased. Italy needs everyone else to emerge from this political and economic crisis, and you and your Government certainly do not represent the best of this Italy for this Italy. Your economic policy is also wrong: you are unscrupulously investing the money of Italians; you have threatened even the savings of Italians: a shameful thing, because savings are protected by our Constitution. But what does it matter to you? You want to destroy that, too. Last night is the news of the agreement with the European Commission to set up a bad bank for the management of bank suffering, and they do not reassure us of the words of Minister Padoan when he says that the operation will not generate charges for the state budget; on the contrary, it is expected that the fees collected are higher than the costs and that there is therefore a positive net income (if all goes well, I add). I hope you will not want to guarantee these new financial products with the postal savings of Italians. And let's stop saying that these banks have credit in distress because they have lent money to small and medium-sized enterprises: the huge hole is represented by financing to the manufacturers that then fail to sell the real estate. You have decriminalised tax offences; you have put your hands on the accounting rules for the consolidated financial statements of public administrations, participating companies and banks, without having the slightest sense of legality and accounting rules. Not to mention the much praised bureaucratic simplification that is struggling to arrive and costs our economy 70 billion a year. Use the slogan of 80 euros or 500 euros to 18 year olds to hide the real filth that you are doing to the Italians. You are an incompetent, superficial and presumptuous team that is doing enormous damage to Italy. If you and your government really care about this country, set it free and resign: you will do yourself a favor and all of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u118	We greet the students, the students and teachers of the Institute including Via Salvatore Pincherle in Rome, who follow our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u119	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u120	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the motion of no confidence in the Government for something which has taken place and which has strongly affected the Italians, but not only those which were touched upon by the decree-law saves banks of 22 November last, which the Council of Ministers decided to launch in ten to fifteen minutes of discussion, therefore very quickly, even with a generous interpretation - to use euphemism - of the European Commission's letter on banks. We are talking about one-life savings, four banks, 130,000 shareholders, 20,000 subordinate bond subscribers who have seen their savings cancel out; we are talking about pensioners and small savers. Banks have been saved, but the government has once again proved to be what it is: weak with the strong - the bankers - and strong with the weak: the small savers, the pensioners, people who believed they could invest the savings of a lifetime and who saw them zero. These are 130,000 shareholders who have lost around 400 million euros, and 20,000 subordinated bond subscribers have seen 790 million euros fade away. The Government, creating that kind of bad bank, has foreseen about 400 million euros that do not cover even a third of the losses while the Group of Forza Italia had asked, even with amendments in the law of stability, that all be reimbursed in full, because the Government cannot make the big voice with the weak and bow before the strong powers. The principle of what he wanted to be a new board president is wrong. But not only that: the aforementioned decree-law altered the conditions of free competition. The four banks in question today are worth 1,815 million, which have been put, of course, by credit institutions and banks; thus comes out a new bank to which all suffering has been removed. This is also not good, and in this case too, the resources earmarked for small savers, EUR 400 million, are scarce. I do not want to talk about other aspects, because I think I have said enough. When you vote for the government's distrust, you vote on the government's inability to manage the country and I believe that in this sense the decree saves banks say it long (and will say it again, unfortunately, given what the Italians are paying). In fact, in this case, they paid the subscribers of subordinated bonds and shareholders but the message of distrust that has been given to the whole country regarding the banking system is very serious. But I say even more, President Renzi, to get to the political aspect: you have become President of the Council, for many months now, with a tweet, "Enrico stay calm" and today you will have the confidence because we do not deceive ourselves that it is distrusted, but I remind you, I remind all of us but above all Italians already know it, that today you will have the confidence of political forces that barely represent 30% of Italians. You have the confidence, in this Senate, of that 25 percent of Italians who voted Bersani in the 2013 elections and the confidence of senators who were elected as alternatives to the left that you represent, far from chronic assistantism and the typical statism of the left and that no longer represent, in the country, two or three percent. You with these percentages are changing the Constitution; you are changing the electoral law, you will soon come the ius soli and you will not even listen to the voice of 70% of Italians who are opposed to this Government, who do not appreciate what this Government is doing, demonstrating arrogance. You have arrived presenting yourself as a new man, or at least wanted to present yourself as such, and you are interpreting politics and the left in the oldest way, which we believed could change and has not changed. You represent the lack of change. Today he will have the confidence in the Senate Assembly for the electoral mechanism I was talking about before but now he has the distrust of the Italians. It's just a matter of time. You'll learn that with the referendum, the administration will explain it to you. We hope that the general elections will soon come to close the sad page of the last two years. You will have the Senate's confidence today but you already have the country's distrust. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u121	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I remember some time ago - we were in mid-December - when we had just started talking about this and Minister Padoan, who was pressured by journalists, said: "La Boschi will come out of it very well." It seemed objectively a little short of a minister of the economy, in fact we replied to him in many. I personally objected to the fact that the problem did not concern a person but invested the entire Executive, who had already gotten out very badly. Yet, the connotations of the one known as the "Etruria case" were then only partially known. It has been a month since that day, and it is no coincidence that today we are in this House discussing a parliamentary act that calls into question the Government as a whole and does not put all the responsibility on a scapegoat. That, on the one hand, does not expose to an easy accusation of hypocrisy the liberal political forces that have always considered the motions of individual distrust an instrument alien to our order, and on the other hand, recognizes to the matter the dimension it deserves. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been told that the procedures followed by the Italian Government for rescuing the four banks would to some extent be determined by Europe, which would have opposed other possible solutions. It is true or not true that it is - the subject is notoriously controversial - we ask ourselves quietly: if the Renzi Government was so contrary to the European norms on bail in, why did not it spend up to the last moment to try to oppose it? If you had better ideas for the solution of banking crises, why didn't you put them on the table? Why didn't you use the strength of your representation in the Community institutions? On what occasion, if they were opposed, did the current government, the Minister of Economy, the majority party, discuss the architecture of the bail in which pillar of the banking union? Yet the PD, which of this Government more than the reference party is the only party, expresses in the European Parliament the President of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Leader of the entire Group of the European Socialist Party. The impression is that our government's strategy in its relations with the European Union is to raise its voice, beat the punches on the table in favour of cameras, get negotiations, discussions and meetings, and then abandon the dossiers on the final when they come out of the radar of press reviews, and blame Europe when something goes wrong. And if that is the impression that we have in our country, it is easy to understand why in Brussels they complain about the absence of interlocutors. But let's move on. Once these rules, for good or for bad, have been enacted, why have they been transferred to Italian law at two speeds, depending on whether they were concerned with administrators or savers? Why, in order to implement the directive on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions, and to take advantage of the opportunity to protect the directors of banks in distress from some of the possible consequences of their poor management, has the preferential lane of an amendment to the law of stability, while the related European prescriptions for the protection of savers have been left to languish again, despite an infringement procedure already opened against our country? In the first case, Europe has been shielded, even with excessive zeal, since the protection of administrators from their responsibilities has gone beyond the Community directives. For savers, on the other hand, between a Merkel place and an arm wrestling with "Jean-Claude" - so our Premier loves to call President Juncker - it was believed that Europe could wait. For all these reasons - which are, Mr President, political and not moralistic - the whole Government cannot escape its responsibilities. For all these reasons, the motion of no confidence before us today will have our vote in favour. For all these reasons, we wanted to accompany our agreement to the act that is being discussed in this House today with the presentation of a bill on the protection of savings and responsibility of administrators who restore a minimum of order and correct, as far as possible, the distortions recently introduced into our system with the "Italian-renzian" version of the bail in. The text that we have presented, and which we submit to the evaluation and possible sharing of colleagues and - why not - also of the Government, makes essentially four proposals. The first is that the rules of transparency and information for savers should be strengthened at the time of signing up for risky investments. The second is that the directors responsible for the bankruptcy of banking institutions can be called upon to respond through compensation actions by savers, without the need for cumbersome authorisation procedures by the Bank of Italy. Allow me to make a joke, Mr President: it is at least curious that the Government itself, which abolished the filter for actions of civil liability against judges, introduced it as far as bankers are concerned! And again, we propose that the above-mentioned administrators, if they are held responsible, be revoked the requirements of professionalism and good repute, in order to avoid that they respond to the same bad managements in other banking institutions. Finally, we propose that the European directive on the protection of savers be implemented in practice and that the interbank fund be integrated with a supplementary insurance system that ensures, in the event of bankruptcy, the reimbursement of savers within seven days. This serves both to strengthen the citizens' protection network and to diversify the protection mechanisms in relation to a system - that of the fund, to which all banking institutions are called to contribute - which will also be imposed by Europe, it will also be inevitable, but it appears to be contrary to the minimum rules of the market economy. The banks are in fact companies, they compete with each other in a competitive framework and sound management will be all the more encouraged the more everyone will be called to respond for their own work, and it does not happen that it is the virtuous institutions that have to shelter the wrongdoing of others in a system that, therefore, makes the whole grass a bundle. Mr President, I should like to end by reaffirming Idea's support for the motion of no confidence in the Renzi Government, and I believe that the time between the presentation of this act and its discussion has increased the arguments in support of its justification rather than attenuating them. I don't like to win too easy and therefore I don't venture, here, in the game of the "what would have happened if". I therefore abstain from wondering what would have happened if others had occupied the ranks of the Commission and others had been the protagonists of the news that we have read in recent weeks. I submit to the separation of powers and I do not even ask what would have happened if several had been the protagonists of the disturbing events brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, with respect to which we are sure will be exercised all the rigour possible. I also avoid maramaldeggiare and to remember how evocative is, today, the reading of an editorial by director De Bortoli of a few months ago. To one aspect, jumped to the honors of the chronicles in these last few days, I would not want to escape. I do not know whether and how much funding has passed, and how, from the Etruria Bank to the foundation that refers to the President of the Council. I read in the newspapers about it, but that's not the point. The mere fact that a further dark story is approached to the theme of the financing of foundations does not do good to foundations that work with effort and passion, which contribute to the cultural growth of our country, which suffer cyclically the ludibrio determined by an excessive proliferation of craftiness and opacity. On this too, it is urgent that the legislator intervene, and we will also make our proposal and our contribution. We hope that the Government, again in this case, will give a privileged lane to this measure, so that everything - just everything - is clear. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and Senator D'Alì]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u123	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u124	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers and members of the Government, I would like to return with memory to the first months of the beginning of the parliamentary term, retracing the headlines and analyses of the editorialists and recalling the many words and concerns that we exchanged among ourselves, commenting on the gloomy picture of the political and economic situation that was to be expected. We read and talked about the legislature on a dead track. I would like to return with my memory to the great difficulties that have continued - alas - even with the birth of the Letta Government. And I think it is also useful to retrace the majority that supported that Executive, constituted by the Democratic Party, Civic Choice, Popular for Italy, Union of Center and Force Italy (then still united). It was called broad understanding, yet few results were found. Perhaps there was a lack of determination and conviction that the only way out of the swamp was, in fact, to govern and reform this country. It was a large majority that failed to start a reform, despite the push of the Colle, the so-called essays and the Consulta that, at the beginning of December 2013, declared unconstitutional the so-called Porcellum, the unclean electoral system created by Forza Italia and Lega Nord for the sole purpose of blocking Italy. 575 spread points: this is the medal, the precipice long pursued by the right, starting in 2005, with that senseless electoral law, a medal that still honors the lap of those governments and those political forces. I think you will remember the gift that that season handed down to us: to cover that disaster it was necessary to introduce taxes of 22 billion euros. I ask you for an effort of sincerity. Who would have wagered even one euro on 22 February 2014 (two years ago), the day on which Matteo Renzi's Government took office, on the scale of the measures that this Government would bring to Parliament? I do not ask you to judge the individual measures which many of you have legitimately contested. As far as I am concerned, the quality and undoubtedly the quantity of these measures, which Parliament has supported and approved, have been important. You don't need to recapture them, as you know them and they're in the newspapers every day. I am thinking, just to name a few, of the so-called IRPEF decree and the 80 euro bonus, of the reform of work with incentives for employment, the good school plan, interventions in the fields of public administration and justice, the electoral law, the reform of the Constitution and the abolition of taxes on the first house. These are measures and reforms that may not be pleasing, but that have put our country back on track. The results begin to be seen and this - alas - may also begin to bother some. I would just like to focus on today's figure, which has been communicated to us by ISTAT, that consumer confidence has never been so high since the beginning of the Institute's historical series (so since 1995). But there are many indicators that tell us that in the country confidence is growing with constancy and strength: consumption, tourism, the recovery of the real estate market and the data of the car market. So I come back to the question before: who would bet only one euro on 22 February 2014? President Romani, President Centinario, President Giarrusso, let's be honest: you thought or hoped for another small government, like those of the last 20 years, but that was not the case. Do we want to talk about Europe? Let us take a treaty at random: the Dublin II Regulation, which entered into force in 2003. The government that signed it was that of Silvio Berlusconi. At the time Roberto Maroni was the Minister of Labour of the Government who signed that Regulation, which contained the norm on asylum seekers and the country of arrival of immigrants. We're talking about the same Maroni of the famous letter to the prefects. [[Comments of Senators Comaroli and Donno.]] Is this the class of government that today presents the distrust to Renzi and his Government, that in Europe is finally making the voice of the country heard, asking to modify much of what, over the years, the center-right has supinatively subscribed, clearly going against the national interest? Do we want to talk about milk quotas and EUR 4.5 billion in costs? And we come to the question of banks. Some people thought they'd put this government in trouble, maybe just for the sake of quoting "Il Gattopardo". Well, you misjudged the accounts and forecasts again. Your motions of distrust have been promptly calendarized; no melina, no barricade. The President of the Council and his Government are here, in this House, once again demanding the linearity of the Commission's behaviour. I live today's presence of the Government as an act of responsibility and trust in Parliament. There's really nothing to hide. The line was marked by Prime Minister Renzi and Minister Boschi. Whoever has wrong will pay: a principle, this, revolutionary after twenty years of laws ad personam. [[Comments of Senator Comaroli. Applause from the PD Group]] Shall we go back to that decree-law? We all know that, without that decree-law, the situation would have been much worse. That decree-law allowed to save the current accounts of citizens of four banks and thousands of jobs. Alas, you are in bad faith, unfortunately. [[Comments of Senator Palma]] And do you want to explain to me why only yesterday the Italian Government managed to rip out an agreement with Europe on suffering? And that agreement was signed by the current minister of the economy Pier Carlo Padoan, and not an exponent of the past governments of the right. These are motions of absurd and instrumental distrust, which the PD will reject, strong of the facts that it can boast in the action of government and in the management of the crisis of the four banks. This government, the Democratic Party, the majority have a sacred commitment to voters: to deliver a better country than we have inherited, with balanced accounts, more slender, more competitive, more just and looking to the future. You have an appointment and a goal to return to the past, which is the place where you come from: in October, on the referendum, do your battle to preserve bicameralism, the current number of parliamentarians, the shuttle of the laws, the CNEL, the past, in fact. If you win that battle, the government that you ask to distrust today will take the consequences responsibly. But the Italians will know how to decide. Meanwhile, Mr President, authoritative colleagues, the Democratic Party strongly calls on the Government to continue its reformative action, in the interests of the country and future generations. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Gentile.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u125	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u126	He asked the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u127	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I asked to speak, President! What are you doing? Didn't you see me? As usual!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u128	Mr President of the Senate, Senators, Senators, the decision to ask for a vote of no confidence today, on the precise point linked to the dynamics of banking management, shows a very precise political choice, which the Government must take care of. The oppositions decide to place the topic on which to bring the most vibrant attack, to the point of asking for the motion of distrust, precisely on the banking issue and in ways that each of you can read in the two motions that we had the pleasure to observe and verify point by point. We believe in politics and, therefore, we respect politics. You did not choose to put the motion of distrust on the most important acts that the government has put in place, and to say that they have not been lacking. The motion of distrust could have been put forward that the government came to Parliament with an electoral law - there were also many controversy, as you will recall - and chose to play a lot on the subject of electoral law, trying to overcome the vulnus that had been created by the Constitutional Court's ruling. It could have been done on the labour market. Let us not forget that a year ago, in these days, about a million people, according to the reconstruction of the press, went to the streets against the Government, against the jobs act, against the reform of the labour market. A motion of distrust could have been made on the measure that was most criticized, that of the 80 euros, the first measure of the Government, in particular, then, linked to those who have an income under the 1,500 euros net monthly and that today has been extended to the carabinieri, the police, the firemen, the financiers, the military forces. I heard the former Minister of Defence say here in this House, in this debate, that it was a mistake, and even that it was an electoral manoeuvre and that we should go back to the 2.1 deficit-GDP ratio. I listened to the debate as I arrived, and I noticed that this really is an assessment that our military will appreciate, an assessment by the former Minister of Defence who spoke on this. We could have received a motion of distrust on the question of taxes: the abolition of IRAP and labour costs, the abolition of taxes on agriculture, the abolition of IMU and TASI, also - why not - highlighting a contradiction between some of our positions of the past and now. I'm moving on, but I'm going to be brief because I want to go on about it. You could have asked us for distrust of teachers. How many thousands of people went to the streets against the government? What words were used? Someone said they were deported. There were also discussions between us, and someone among us then did not vote for trust. Yet, 98,000 people have signed a permanent employment contract as teachers, healing the wound of the precarious, and a contest for 63.217 people is about to be banned, because for our children we are not content with less than the best. And I could go on. This government has changed, since the first three months, all the heads of public companies. Sure, he waited for the deadline. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] It changed the summit of ENI, ENEL, Finmeccanica, Terna and Ferrovie. And the smiles that I am seeing in this House from those who struggle to exercise the noble art of hearing, starting from their own prejudice, do not have a concrete correspondence with the results of the stock exchange. We are talking about companies that have faced, in the silence of a large part of public opinion, an incredible crisis. One thing, in fact, for a company that does oil and gas, is to have oil at 130 dollars and another is to have it at 30 dollars. It is the country that is at stake, and not the individual political forces. This could have been dealt with by a motion of no confidence. Of course, the 48 corporate crises, more 27 percent on culture, the law on international cooperation, the civil responsibility of the magistrates. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). And then Bank Etruria! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. There are so many reasons for a motion of no confidence. And we have chosen not to talk about this, because we take note - and I consider it a medal of merit - of the fact that, on these positions, on these reforms, on these measures that years of swamps would have blocked, Italy has finally seen the action of a Parliament - I do not say of a Government, but of a Parliament - capable of putting an end to unnecessary discussions. And these measures are no longer theories or tweets, but state laws, which allowed the country to get out of a recession! [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] No, you don't: you choose banks. Why do you choose banks? I will enter into the merits of the three measures that are contested by the two motions of distrust, namely the decree of January 2015 on popular banks, the decree of November 2015 on the four banks and the law of stability, for the repercussions that have been underlined by the texts of the motions. With regard to the texts of the motions, I refer in particular to the motion of the Senators of the League and of Forza Italia, which presents small errors in terms of date. It's nothing meaningful from the point of view of the substance, but, casually, it's exactly the "copy and paste" from an article in a newspaper as far away from your story. And I say this because, in regard to the text of the motion, there is really a lot of fun in noting that, in the "copy and paste," even errors completely insignificant from the political point of view, but casually the same, are part of both two editorials published in "Il Fatto Quotidiano" and in the motion of the North League and of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] That's a good thing! There's finally dialogue. We worked for a lifetime so that we could have a greater dialogue between these parts too! [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]] Maybe, though, check the copy and paste next time. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] Dear senators, you think two things: the first is that if you scream, you are more credible at home. One comes home and wonders, what did I do in the Senate today? I screamed, so the President-in-Office couldn't speak. What can I tell my son? I didn't let anyone else talk. [[Applause from the PD Group.Comments from the M5S Group.]] This is the great form of democracy that you think you can present to your children. Secondly, you think that it is right and understandable to present to the Italians a situation in which, in mystifying the facts and in telling that everything is the same, imagine that they let themselves be exploited by controversy because you think they are less aware of what you imagine. Since, in your opinion, Italians do not deepen and study, you feel that in the end they believe you. But let's go to the merits of the three decree-laws, the first of which is January 2015. If you want to send this government home because it has issued the decree-law on popular banks, do it. We are proud to have done a reform that Parliament should have done for twenty-five years and which was last tempted by the Treasury Minister Ciampi and the Treasury Director-General Draghi. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups.]] These are the facts. There is no alternative to this real finding. If that measure on popular banks had been made at the end of the nineties, as Ciampi and Draghi had proposed, in many parts of Italy, starting from the North-East, which is the strongest territory and which draws the most, we would have avoided the scenes of the last fifteen years in terms of the contiguity between the system of credit and politics. I claim to this government the fact that I have brought a limit to send popular banks to the stock exchange, because for me the principle of "a head one vote" in the credit system is wrong and it is right that there are markets and transparency and above all that process of merger and aggregations that that decree-law has liberated. [[Comments of Senator Martelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u129	Senator Martelli, you will be able to intervene later.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u130	Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. The text of the motion of distrust states that this decree-law required the transformation and listing of Banca Etruria. I would like to point out that of all the banks concerned by the January measure, the only one that was already listed was Bank Etruria. [[Applause from Senator Mattesini.]] I understand that Senator Mattesini applauds in her capacity as Arezzo, but I say this because it is clear that the Bank Etruria is playing a game that is completely politically understandable, but totally unrelated to the reality of the facts. There is an understandable and legitimate political battle on the part of the opposition, for reasons of political exploitation to which we are absolutely accustomed and which certainly do not frighten us. But the only bank, of all those involved, that was already on the market was Bank Etruria. This is a fact that no one can deny. It is an objective fact that also makes clear so many hallucinating discussions of the last few hours. And I use the word "alignant" because it must be clear that what happened in November - secondly - does not concern a single bank. I have taken notes and from 1 November 2015 to 18 January 2016 the number of articles that the Italian press - free and independent, if God wants - has dedicated to immigration, a topic - in my opinion - of some importance in the Italian and European panorama, a total of 1,770 (it is an important number). The number of articles dedicated not to the story of the banks, but to the Bank Etruria instead combines to 1,889. This is because we have chosen not to address a major issue such as the legislation of bail in, approved by the principles of the banking union, on which Europe has made a path and from which I think that in here few can be pulled back or called out, because it is a path that goes back years and not months. Rather than talking about that directive or the process of merging the Italian banking system or about the need to contain and consider in a different way the deteriorated loans, which is another major issue, are being talked about one of the four banks. [[Comments of Senators Martelli and Puglia.]] Why? It seems to me quite clear: the principle that there is a conflict of interest is affirmed; the principle that there has been a favoritism is stated. I believe that on these issues we must have the courage to look ourselves in the eye and tell the truth, because we can think of it as we want it all but, in the face of the lowest and meanest accusation there can be, namely that there is a different treatment within the principle of law for which all citizens are equal before the law, we must have the courage to look at reality. This government, gentlemen of the Senate, has policed the Etruria Bank and, as it did with other banks, without having any regard to the names and surnames of those who were on its board of directors. For us there are no friends and friends of friends. [[Senator Paglini's comments.]] And the proof lies in the fact that the Bank of Italy, on the contrary, the Bank of Italy - no longer an institution - sanctioned the family members of a Minister. And it is also clear that there has not been one single event that can make anyone talk here about a conflict of interest, neither for Mr Boschi, nor for any member of the Government. Do your controversy, but you cannot beat the reality: the reality is greater than your exploitations! [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups]] And you know that, Senator Romani. You know that for a reason, because we have the line of your senators and regional councillors who are almost desperate to tell us: but how can we face such a rearguard battle as that of those who say today, in a very explicit and very clear way, that this Government would have a conflict of interest? I don't say the phrase that would be simple: from what pulpit, friends of the center-right! I am telling you something different, taking your word for it: there is no conflict of interest in this affair, there is only an attempt to save a million accountants and 7,000 salaries. If you want to send us home because we saved a million accountants and 7,000 salaries, do it. We would never have destroyed pieces of economy to make a political battle against the government! [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups]] Before your party begas there is Italy and you should remember it. Third and final point: the law of stability, which contains a number of rules. Senator Marin, I'm telling you with all due respect that your predictions about the results of the next referendum and the upcoming elections have the connotations of a gamble. We are always ready - how can I tell you? - to consider every open battle and we'll make it house by house, but, Senator Marin, you're divided. Senator Marin, you are less and less! Today the newspapers will count no, to see who is decisive and who is not. But the real point is that, if you count yes, you would see that they are not less than last time, but they are less and less because there is objectively a great division between you. And I tell you, as a citizen, when he was a mayor, he took the insults of his own political side because I argued that we must dialogue with the opponents and not consider them enemies, that we patiently expect that, in the moderate field of the center-right, we can return to a language that is not that of ideological opposition that, in a case like this, leads you to fight without realizing what has been the banking system in Italy in recent years. And I say this thinking that you ruled the country for three thousand three hundred and forty days and you left - I'm sorry to say - Italy worse than you found it. We're seven hundred and four days in government, and we're gonna leave it better than we found it. MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Look forward, don't look back. Look to the future! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. And I give clear figures to make them clear: unemployment was 13.2% and today it is 11.3 percent. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). He was 11 percent with Berlusconi! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. It was 13.2 percent in February 2014. MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). He was at 11 with the Berlusconi government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marin, don't interrupt. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Five hundred and ten thousand jobs and the source is not Poletti, but is the INPS, indefinitely, with contracts provided for by the jobs act. Loans grow by 97 percent; consumption - said Senator Marcucci - departs; tourism has had in the North-East the most fantastic season of recent years. I remember some talk shows in which authoritative members of the League, even for some reason, were concerned about the controversy in progress. I remember, between June and July, evening broadcasts saying that, for the issue of immigration, no one would go to their beaches. The 2015 season in the North-East especially, but also in the islands, has been the best in the last twenty years. MARTELLI (M5S). It's only a matter of time. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. I want to say this: it is certainly not the government's merit if the occupation comes back up, if consumption starts again and if Italy comes back to believe in the future. Let's just say we're lucky. Senator Quagliariello - said I agree with you that it doesn't seem like the type that likes to win easy; indeed, sometimes it seems to me the type that doesn't like to win just [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] - I find it very hallucinating that the considerations she has expressed here come from those in this Senate who chose to create a break within the center-right to create a government. I think there are times in politics when people's fate may be less important than a country's destiny. And, then, to all those who think to go on - and I bet with you that you will go on because, when you have taken that road, you will go on for months with these polemics; you will go on for months to check the agendas of cousins, grandchildren, uncles; you will go on to attack every piece of mud that you can recover - I say one thing: in this country who has wrong pays. You do not decide who pays, but the judges of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] TAVERNA (M5S). You decide who pays. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. There are the first degree of judgment, the second degree, which is the appeal, and the third, which is the Cassation. The fourth degree is not the blog. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Just tell him the fourth and immediately get excited. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] The fourth degree is not the enlighted blog. Keep your polemics. Hold on to the mud. We think about Italy and we'll leave it better than we found it. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups]] AIROLA (M5S). This isn't TG1. (Senator Airola points out the President of the Senate.) That's not Mario Orfeo.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u131	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u134	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, government, colleagues, we must do! on the banking case we will vote against this motion of distrust, because we are convinced that purely populist actions, pure propaganda and political skirmishes do not serve to bring out either the serious faults on the management of the banking system, or even less... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I am sorry, but it is impossible to intervene because of the rudeness on my left.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u135	Senator, stop.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u136	I ask for silence when a senator intervenes. Anyone who has to speak should leave the Chamber. Senator Bellot, continue. BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, I repeat our vote: we will vote against because we are convinced that purely populist actions, pure propaganda and political skirmishes do not serve to bring out either the serious faults in the management of the banking system, or the direct perpetrators to whom we blame the blame. It is certainly not in this way that the savers, those savers who are waiting for concrete answers, will be given protection. And responsibilities must be sought in those who mishandled those banks. In this matter today, the government has no responsibility. If anything, a responsibility in the management of the Italian banking system must also be attributed to all the governments that have followed in recent years. It's funny to hear a certain political part of conflict of interest now. For us, responsibility must be given to those control bodies which have badly monitored the banks, which are the real ones responsible for this situation and which, as such, must be theirs to pay. You, with the political clashes alone, are turning away from the real culprits, with the real risk that no one will pay. That is why we call on the President of the Senate again and forcefully - and I address you, Mr Grasso - to schedule, at the next Conference of the Leaders, the motion No 505, which we have tabled for the Government to initiate the procedure for verifying the work of the Bank of Italy, a supervisory body which was to monitor the behaviour of the individual banks and their state of health, and therefore proceed, as far as this Government's competence is concerned, with the withdrawal of the Governor of the Bank of Italy. Only the commitment we have requested and only with this action, dictated by criteria of transparency and justice in the search for true responsibilities, savers will have a guarantee of protection not only for today, but also for the future. [[Applause from the Mixed-Doing Groups! and Misto-Idv.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u139	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating two motions of distrust of the Government and indirectly, through these motions, also of different ways of opposing in Parliament; but I will speak on this later. It seems to me that, after the President-in-Office's speech, we are also discussing different ways of being a majority and a government. You see, Mr President, it is on the ground of the harsh political criticism that we Conservatives and Reformists conduct daily, like others, parliamentary battles, and it is in this spirit that we have tabled a motion to commit the Government to respond to the issues which are the subject of these motions of distrust. You see, Mr President, allowing a reply like the one we heard from the Premier, in the absolute respect of this House, which, however, did not touch a comma of the merit of the motions of distrust, means not only disrespect for the Senate, which is little, but even more disrespect for the citizens and for those who expect from us words of truth about events that have deeply shaken public opinion. Of course, Mr President, not everything in this House can be traced back to criminal matters, leaving aside the real political issues. Instead of concentrating on the merits of the many political mistakes made by this Executive, as by other previous Executives, we launch ourselves on parliamentary commercial initiatives, embracing the worst judicial propaganda, in order to capture not well understood what prize. As in the case of Mr Boschi. My colleague, Mr Matteoli, was right when he redrawed his party colleagues by admitting that - and I quote - the motions of individual mistrust against the Ministers have usually become stronger. Even in the case of the Boschi will be so. Therefore, I hope for a moment of reflection from Forza Italia. The reflection that I would like to develop, together with my colleagues from Forza Italia and the League, together with President Romani and President Centinario, is more precise. Do you remember how many times, both in the parliamentary classrooms and in all the Italian media, the opposition of the Democratic Party blamed every day the Berlusconi Government and all those who supported it for continuing conflicts of interest? And now what do you do, steal the worn-out script recited for decades by the center-left, which led him to eternal defeat? What's this game? It's a game to lose. But it is the center-right voters and the Italians in general who are asking instead that the government can be distrusted for all the political errors committed. And I immediately come to the mistakes, the merit of which I would have liked to hear the President-in-Office speak. I am thinking of the poor management of the lying mess that the European Union has prepared and which Parliament has swallowed (how else to call the so-called bail in?). I am thinking of how he managed to rescue the famous, now infamous, four banks; I am thinking of how he treated, indeed, better, how he did not deal with the bad bank issue with Europe. Do you want to compare these three points with what has happened in other countries such as France, Germany and Spain? But let's go with order. I remember, as we all remember the opposition, that in 2015, when the European legislation on bail in was transposed, we parliamentarians of the Conservative Reformists Group, I in particular, denounced the risk of hastyness and superficiality with which the problem was addressed, and in fact we voted against it. Parliament itself and the political forces that had spent months discussing matters far less relevant to citizens and savers, decided instead to adopt the new European legislation quickly and uncritically, ignoring all concerns and observations. In a liberal logic, for us it was not a question of proposing or perpetuating the logic of state rescues, at the expense of taxpayers (what goes under the name bail out). Professor Savona, whom I would like to quote, rightly wrote that, since the EU directive transposed by Italy is intended to keep Member States out of the financial implications caused by the banking crises, they are disbanded in theory of their responsibilities, but another illiberal principle is introduced into the system, that of a State which, with central banks or with the national bank, bears its errors at the expense of the citizen. More recently, on the occasion of the well-known crisis involving the famous Etruria Bank and three other Italian banking institutions, my Group's parliamentarians proposed to use the interbank deposit protection fund, that is, citizens' money in banks, for an injection of capital for the suffering banks. Instead, the government has agreed to suffer what was presented as a European veto. In fact - and we found out later - the letter to the Italian Government from the European Union, although in its ambiguity, left room for negotiation. Then I still cannot understand why this negotiation has stopped, giving up a strong dispute with the European authorities, underestimating a very important fact, namely that the protection of the European banking system also went through the security of the Italian one. Madam Minister, yet we have allowed the rescue of the banks of half of Europe over the years: let us think only of what Europe, even with our money, has done for the Spanish banks. We then built the scaffolding of the banking union, to which was hung the guillotine that decapitated us, accomplice - and I say this to the President-in-Office of the Council, that I am sorry that he is no longer present in this House - that famous decree, which you say you are proud to have done, and that I believe it was the broadest gap open to the contensibility of popular banks, that is, those of our territory, speculation and not to the market and transparency. That decree has nothing to do with transparency; instead, there is the opening of the doors to speculation, which has been denounced by several parties. On the way back to that banking union, only we, uncritically, adhere to the banking union, because Britain did very well not to join. Because it is true, as we support it, that we need a revision of the directive that is too superficially transposed by Italy. It is necessary to reopen a debate on that banking union in order to understand first what are the real responsibilities between the European, German and perhaps Italian ones. Perhaps no one remembers that the first draft of the directive specified that the purpose was precisely to prevent systemic banking crises from spilling over into public budgets. They should have better informed those poor savers about what they were going to subscribe to: but excuse me, who, if not the European Central Bank, and therefore the Bank of Italy, was to inform the depositor? Otherwise, that decision would be to impose a potential tax on depositors without their knowledge of it. Did Parliament, which approved the notorious bail-in rule, realize that it was voting on an implicit depositor's current account tax? Throughout 2015, then, a game of ping pong was played to define the Italian way to the creation of the famous bad bank. I remember our numbers: 17% of the total credit losses, compared with 3% in Germany, 4% in France and 7% in Spain. The other countries, however, in this last year, have not remained to turn their thumbs and have not made other decrees. They have worked hard during the financial crisis and, in the silence of the European Commission, have calmly faced massive capitalizations thanks to the state aid that we are being challenged today. It is possible that in a year our government's negotiating capacity has produced only that small result that we read in the newspapers this morning: more mini bad bank that perhaps will solve the problem? I'm not happy about that. But I know for a fact that with this solution the whole country loses. It is clear that the delicate issue of Italian savings, the constitutionally envisaged sacred protection of Italian savings, is a vast and complicated issue and cannot be summarized here in the slogans of President Renzi or in others. That is why it is becoming increasingly urgent, and today I have allowed myself to remind you, Mr President, and also the whole Conference of Leaders, of the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into the banking system, but above all on the sacredness of the savings of Italians. We must do this for the guarantees and for the protection of savers who, together with other important members of the country make the solidity of a country and save at the same time to see themselves treated as a joke, as in fact happened on the occasion of the visit of President Rouhani when we not only stopped defending our culture but we even hid it. Also on other occasions this method has been used and therefore to President Renzi I ask only not to be the smargiasso: do not be the strong with the weak and the weak with the strong. That is why we vote for distrust of your Government: because it is a government of strong with the weak and very weak with the strong. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u142	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the absence of the President-in-Office of the Council, who has just left, and of the ministers who followed him, is a lack of respect, not for this debate and this House, but for the citizens. In fact, what we asked for before Christmas, and which is taking place in this House today, is a moment of clarity and the first thing we need in democracy is to listen and give answers. The President of the Council came after the general discussion, made his speech and left. This is a sign of a serious lack of institutional respect and of the citizens whom, I repeat, we can still proudly have the ambition to represent here. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The political context is what needs to be emphasized first, Mr President. What is happening weeks later, in fact, is not a storm in a glass of water, but it is a gorgo that constantly widens and that has sucked the credibility of the entire Government because if before Christmas maybe someone could delude himself of a motion of distrust against the only Minister Boschi for the interweavings between his family and the issue of Bank Etruria, it is clear and evident that today is in question the credibility of the entire Government. And I don't even want to think about the figure of international "palta" made yesterday with the Iranian President's institutional visit to Italy with the cover of the statues in the Capitol. This must make you ashamed in the first place because it went to all the newspapers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Moreover, it is not a question of opposition here: it is your inability to enforce the dignity of the country. This is what is condemning you to international irrelevance. It is a shame, Minister Franceschini, what has happened. It is in the same way that you want to veil the truth, hide it. The maxim says that time reveals the truth; we will see it, and it will not take long to understand the misunderstandings and deceptions that lie behind the whole affair linked to Banca Etruria. The conflicts of interest and dual morality, Minister Boschi, have really amazed us. I shall read to this House the deletions of your statement to the House of Deputies. He said: This means that we have not sold or purchased shares either before or after the adoption of the February decree, so no surplus value can have been realized simply because we have not sold or purchased it. Yeah, shares; do we want to talk about bonds, subordinates? Do we want to talk, perhaps, about third parties who have lent themselves? (17.42) (Following CANDIANS). And again, Minister Boschi: "I, as Minister, have always been on the side of institutions, I have never favored my family, I have never favored my friends." Perhaps someone who got up from those benches and left cannot say the same; is it true, Dr. Carrai, is it true? Once again, with our Government, we are all equal before the law, but, dear friends of the New Right Center, it was not so for what was the Minister Lupi nor for what was the Minister Chancellors, and so was the Idem. This is the reality of the facts. But for convenience today this government is supported and I say it to Mr Verdini's Al-A senators, who may also be Minister, but better to stay behind the scenes and govern what the government is doing. In fact, the Government that will receive your votes here today is composed of the majority of the Democratic Party, the New Right Center and the senators who came out of Forza Italia by order of Verdini and hired by the Government. That is the majority who support you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You continue to deceive the country, as President Renzi did earlier by listing fires of straw, but with illusions and cheating he is dragging the country into the abyss. That is why today we must vote on the motion of no confidence and for which you must leave. You are dragging the country into the abyss with your deceptions, because this is a government - and we will remember it until the last day of the legislature - which is based on deception. That same deception with which President Letta was accompanied to the door with a "Stai sereno", the same deception with which you put 80 euros in the pocket of the citizens, deceiving them that this was a government of recovery. But falsehood is the real matrix of government; falsehood and deception: the same false and deception that we have seen in constitutional reform, because this is a government of cheats. It is a government that needs to hide, because behind the Etruria issue there are so many things, President! We have read about secret associations: these things have not been read or heard in Parliament since the P2. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator De Pin]] Shame on you! This is the example of democracy that you are setting in the rest of Europe. And then, of course, President Renzi goes to beat his fists in favour of the cameras, but in reality Juncker said what he thinks of this Government: in Rome there is no interlocutor with whom to talk about serious files; there is no interlocutor like there is not at this time in this House, because he left from shame: he does not have the courage to listen and then look in the face who votes in favour and who against. Mr Tosato used to tell me. Well, dear Minister Boschi, any of us who had been in her would have resigned for dignity, because in the days of the incident, Chancellors, you gave the idea that if you are not part of a system that protects you, you have no chance. Today you give the certainty that Italy is governed by people who make systems of power a system of government. This is what's keeping you in the government: buying senators with committees. This is the characteristic of the government. All this is a good reason to send you home, because the shames are characterizing the Renzi Government: the jobs act with its deceptions; the good school with its deceptions; the pensions of the Fornero that continue to bring our pensioners to their knees; the public administrations that do not pay; the creditors of the public administration that are still on their knees, despite all the promises you have made; the spending review, disappeared from any political agenda of the Government; the lies about the illegals, that you keep in the hotel forgetting the Italians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We have the earthquake victims of Emilia Romagna abandoned without even the electricity, while you put in the hotel at 1,000 euros per month the illegals, because you lucate on with your cooperatives. This is the seriousness of the government and this is another reason to drive you home! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I'm telling Senator Marino, he doesn't see the smoking gun. No wonder, because we know what his past is. MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). My past is noble! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). It is empty prisons, which today leads our entrepreneurs to say that there are too many thefts and therefore they give up, because they can no longer take it (Senator Candiani shows the front page of a newspaper), since you decriminalized the crimes. The Carabinieri come to the Commission to tell us that the legal system is now out of order, because the criminal offences that have been decriminalized are frustrating every effort of our law enforcement forces. This is the credibility of the government! It is the credibility of Banca Etruria, of those who come here and tell us that they have no ties and weaves, when we then read Chinese boxes, which are behind not only Minister Boschi, but the whole Renzi family. In a normal country, a President of the Council of Ministers with behind the failures that characterize his entrepreneurial stories and those of his family would not even arrive at the door of Palazzo Chigi. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Is this a motion of late distrust? Of course it is, but this time we apologise to President Grasso, because he is late on the times of the European Union. We have seen in recent days the attacks of Juncker and Merkel on the Italian Government. Let it be written and reported that we are not pleased, indeed, the words we have read, spoken by Juncker, hurt us a lot, because the lack of respect for this Government means that what is done in Europe is not in defense of our country, but only in favor of cameras, without any real possibility of being then translated into fact. We see the results: Italy plunges into industrial production and neither are the defences needed for our products in the agricultural chain. We have seen what the PD voted in Europe about the 35,000 tons of oil coming from Tunisia to Italy and submerge our producers, putting them on their knees again. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Amidei]] I shall conclude, Mr President. What emerges is therefore the image of a government with indefinable and dark traits: a government - I repeat - that hides, because it does not know how to justify opaque and melmose interweavings, which are based on secret societies and family relationships, in which finance predominates over the interests of citizens. Mr President, it is written in the newspaper I hold that if the truth about Boschi comes out, the government is blown up. This truth you will still keep veiled today, as you did yesterday with the statues in the Capitol, with the votes of Verdini who will guarantee this Government to remain in power, despite the opposition and pseudo-opposition of someone, within the PD. You, ladies and gentlemen, no longer count anything, as well as colleagues from the New Right Centre. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Malan and Amidei.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u145	TREMONTI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I take advantage of the restricted nature of this meeting, the intimate and intimate atmosphere that characterizes it, in order to formulate some considerations and reflections. The President-in-Office of the Council has made an extension of his speech, taking him out of the specific motion we are debating here. He did so by talking about the banking system as a whole and going back in time: I will do the same. Starting with the unity of Italy, the Italian banking system has been based, for decades and decades, on two essential principles: the sacredness of money and the sacredness of savings. The first principle placed the central bank in a sphere of substantial immunity, because in the event of incriminating those who printed the currency, there would be a reflection of distrust in the currency itself. The second principle is that of the sacredness of saving, written in the Constitution, which has been gradually, for decades, realized with various techniques and instruments, including among these the mysterious decree Sindona. Then Europe came. In Italy, money has not been printed since 2002 and state aid has really begun to be banned. Finally, the banking union incardinated on the bail in came. Euro aside, it cannot be said that everything happened suddenly and outside the responsibility of this Government, which has been in office for two years and which has here formulated to previous governments the accusation of not having understood the situation and reacting to the strengthening of the capital of banks when it could have. As far as I'm concerned, the case of previous governments stops in November 2011. I will not speak in my own words, but using those used by the Governor of the Bank of Italy in the intervention of 13 July 2011 at the ABI assembly: The Italian banks have demonstrated and continue to demonstrate their ability to resist and react (...). In May, the three-month growth in bank loans to households and businesses was (...) well above the average in the euro area (...). The steady expansion of business finance is due to the growth in demand (...). - then there was GDP and not with zeros - the flow of suffering, although still significant especially for businesses, is beginning to show signs of slowdown (...). There was no real estate bubble in Italy (...). We insisted that the banks should quickly carry out capital increases (...). Since the beginning of the year, the Italian banks have decided or achieved significant increases in capital (...). We're on the right track. Incidentally, at that time, on the one hand it was said that capital was not needed and, on the other hand, nationalizations had to be introduced or there were no alternatives. Still, on the same line is the intervention of the Governor of the Bank of Italy on the occasion of the World Savings Day of 2011, according to which the rate of growth of loans, although decreasing, is still higher than that of the euro area and high capital endowments allow to face the cyclical worsening, which is still in place. I believe that these words are enough to show that there has been a very significant change in the economic dynamics (i.e. private and public finance) of this country since the end of 2011. Shooting the years 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 is frankly incorrect on the side of history and political ethics. I close with the last citation, referring to the final considerations of the Governor of the Bank of Italy at the ordinary assembly of the participants of 31 May 2011: In Italy the general government deficit (...) is lower than the average of the euro area (...). Appropriate are the balance of the budget objective in 2014 (...).... - then it was 2014 - "Thanks (...) to prudent management of expenditure during the crisis, the effort we are required is less than in many other advanced countries." This is the balance sheet of the activity done throughout November 2011; everything else is frankly avoidable controversy and certainly not good for the interest of the country. I would like to ask four questions, without questioning them. Firstly, why did the Government (or who on behalf of the Commission) vote in Europe on the bail in? This instrument has already been tested in its dramatic effect in Cyprus in 2013. Since then everyone has enthusiastically voted on that measure and on that text there is the signature of the unanimous Italian Government. Why was that text voted here in Italy last November? I voted against 15 November 2015. Because the government acted with confusion, first using the decree-law, then, detected the obvious technical and political errors, made the financial law with its amendment. Another question, on an issue which I think is very serious from the institutional point of view: why has the Government acted outside the competent headquarters, which is the Committee for the Protection of Financial Stability? It is foreseen by the European system, by the European model, and entered into force with the signing of the relevant measure, in March 2008, under the Prodi Government, and continued to operate until November 2011; why was the competent institutional instrument not involved, with management, to say the least, not very orderly? I still wonder now: what happened to that Committee? It's been repealed, it's not there, you don't even know if it's there? This seems to me to be a point on which to think, because that is the institutional seat where any European government operates in crises. I believe that this government today, for its action, is the creator and victim of its destiny. I believe that, because of the government's action, savers are little architects and much victims of their destiny. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E), FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut]] I would like to close, but I think there will be plenty of opportunities to talk about these issues. I would not be optimistic about global financial stability, in Europe, in Italy, as we have been shown to be the President of the Council. I do not want instability and I hope, in some way, even from the opposition, the stability of government activity. However, for this very reason, I would like to recall a political anecdote. The incoming Head of Government exchanges deliveries with the outgoing Head of Government - event, this, which did not occur for this Government - and the outgoing Head of Government, as a council, gives him from three envelopes and says: The first crisis opens the first envelope; the second crisis opens the second envelope; the third crisis opens the third envelope. When the first crisis occurs, the first envelope is opened and it says: Blame the previous Government. Second crisis, second envelope. It opens and says, "Take the blame to Parliament." To the third crisis opens the third envelope and it says: "Prepare three envelopes." [[It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. (Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E), FI-PdL XVII, ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u148	Mr Repetti (AL-A). Madam President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, these motions of mistrust are the result of controversy over the banking case, an issue which, in my opinion, has already been resolved in the words of Mr Boschi during the debate on the motion of mistrust in the House, which was rejected. Mr Boschi's position was impeccable: it was clear, precise, removing all possible doubts. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that both Mr Boschi's motion of no confidence and today's motion to the Government have nothing to do with real issues, but it is only what we do when we try to hide the absence of a credible opposition that is capable of measuring its contents. But I'm coming to the motions. I do not know how many of you, ladies and gentlemen, have read them, because reading them both - I assure you - draws a very confusing and often contradictory argument from those who would like to accuse someone by literally climbing on mirrors, without a rag of proof, indeed without a rag of reason that stands. I'm just gonna give you a few examples. In the motion submitted by colleagues of the Lega and Forza Italia Groups, we begin by defining the reform of the popular banks of January 2015 as a non-urgent and even ambiguous measure, without saying that CONSOB, together with the Bank of Italy, had been demanding such reform for years and now as a matter of urgency, considering it rightly important. The Government is accused of not having done enough, which is not true, because it is well known that the Government, in order to save the savers, has done everything in its power; except, then, to accuse the Government itself of intervening in the rescue because this would have weighed on other banks as well. There is even a reference to the law of stability and criticism is made about cutting taxes into deficits. But, I'm sorry, this is called flexibility. That word we've all been filling our mouths with for years. Even those who signed the motion, at least until yesterday afternoon, were rightly supporters of the "Enough" with the policy of rigour! More flexibility is needed! And now, just because who managed to get more flexibility is called Renzi, isn't it okay anymore? The motion of the 5 Star Movement, on the other hand, revolves completely around a supposed conflict of interests. Very supposed, because everything built on the basis of vulgar illations and press gossip. Nothing else! It seems an irony of history that today the 5 Star Movement is allied with the League but above all with Forza Italia! [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u149	Colleagues, let Mr Repetti speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u150	Mr Repetti (AL-A). Madam President, either someone here suffers from a serious crisis of flatulence or is disrespectful of others and thinks that they are in an asylum room rather than in a parliamentary Chamber. I do not go any further in commenting on these two motions, because it is difficult, as well as boring, to comment on what is clearly instrumental. The truth is that the question of banks is born from the economic crisis that has fallen in recent years in Italy and in the world. During this period the United States and some European governments, including Germany, intervened with public funds to strengthen banks in difficulty. Italy, when it could, under other governments, chose not to do so. In fact, today, with the new European rules, the so-called bail in, which essentially prevents public intervention, is no longer possible. This increased risk for savers explains in part the rise of public distrust of the credit system, which has, however, been, and must be said, irresponsibly fueled by opposition and even by a biased and instrumental information aimed only at making the climate worse by injecting anxiety on citizens. The reality is that the Government must be recognized the merit of having approved the much-awaited reform of the system of popular banks, which has contributed and will contribute to the creation of stronger and more efficient banks. As well as the government must be recognized that it has moved in time, and less bad that it has done so, to save four banks from bankruptcy, but above all the bulk of the savings of citizens and thousands of jobs. On the other hand, the judiciary will identify those who will have to pay if they are there. That said, it is a fact that the Italian banking system is the most robust in Europe, according to all impartial observers. And this must be said and repeated. At this moment, in fact, they serve, not irresponsible exploitations, but objectivity, seriousness and effective measures, like those that the Government is preparing to assume in order to protect the banks from the mass of the deteriorated credits and especially the savers. This should be discussed in this House, and not motions of mistrust! And what happens instead? We are led to gain credibility with the permanent delegitimization of the opponent. A way of doing politics that has dominated Italy in the last 20 years and has plunged it into quicksand. The leader of the centre-right, President Silvio Berlusconi, was also in the crosshairs of this policy. Today the center-right wants to repeat the same scheme of delegitimation, although the left has changed? Because we can't pretend that the Democratic Party with the arrival of Renzi, first secretary and now president, hasn't changed. However, until this issue is resolved, we will still live for a long time in a democracy characterized by hatred rather than mutual respect and debate of merit. In fact, the motions of mistrust are not about the budget of the Commission's activity, but about the use of occasional pretexts to periodically trigger attacks on the government and the political forces that make up it, and I say this as a member of a group that is in opposition. [[Comments]] Sometimes, however, as in this case, these motions are boomerangs for those who propose them, because they allow to highlight the instrumentality and to seize, vice versa, the opportunity to claim the objective merits of the activity of Government. The final reflection that arises from these considerations is that this way of conceiving politics produces incalculable damage to our country: this is the motivation behind the birth of the AL-A Group as an alternative to this way of making politics that has condemned Italy to stagnation. This is why AL-A voted in favour of constitutional reform; for this reason AL-A will confront itself without prejudice on the merits of the measures, voting what it considers useful to the country; for this reason AL-A will not be intimidated by useless and - let me say - absurd controversy of some left-wing leaders who do not understand the positive meaning of overcoming that policy of the opposition tout court. Finally, this is why AL-A will vote against this distrust of the Government built on nothing with the sole aim of delegitimizing Renzi and his Government to hide its objective merits. I turn to the Commission, to the Ministers present, and in particular to Mr Boschi: move forward. It is an increasingly difficult task, because the more you do and do well and the more obstacles you will find. After all, you have to understand them. How do they digest the fact that Renzi is able to change the country when nobody here in twenty years has succeeded? Go on. You have to do this to really change this country. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]] COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Shame on you!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u153	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, as Senators of the Group for the Autonomies, we feel that the opposition's remarks on government action on the crisis cases of the four failing credit institutions are unfounded. There are no reasons for us to even suggest a conflict of interest on the part of the Government, and in the first place by Minister Boschi, on the case of the Etruria Bank. On the other hand, the Government has taken necessary and compatible measures with European rules to protect accountants, thus avoiding much worse scenarios. In addition, the allocation to the DAC - and therefore to President Canton - of the responsibility to manage arbitration for indemnities to savers is a guarantee of absolute transparency. Nor, as the Antitrust Authority has stated, are there any actions of the Minister for relations with the Parliament that could constitute cases of conflict of interest. We have full confidence in the Minister and will renew it with this vote. The Government has also adopted the most appropriate approach, supporting the need for a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the credit system. Since the presentation of a motion of no confidence commits every Parliamentary Group in the evaluation of the pact of political confidence towards the Executive, as the Group for the Autonomous States, we renew our positive opinion on the Renzi government, as the progress made by Italy in the last two years are undeniable; progress has also been made because of the courageous economic and budgetary policy that has associated the respect of the objectives of public finance with the reduction of the tax burden on companies and jobs and with the policies of growth. As special autonomy we have shared with the Government a dynamic and responsible vision of special autonomy, whose objectives have been a strengthening of the role, reasons and competences of the autonomy. With this Government and this majority we have managed to resolve many issues of primary importance, thus reducing the considerable litigation that at the time of the previous Governments Monti and Berlusconi had reached worrying levels. In the Joint Committees we have drawn up a number of implementing rules which may shortly be adopted by the Council of Ministers to complete the ambitious work programme agreed with the Government in the remaining term of office. The Group for the PSI-MAIE Autonomies will therefore vote against the two motions of mistrust presented by the oppositions. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u156	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, this Government has enormous responsibility for the dramatic situation of thousands of small savers who have lost everything. It is difficult to argue that the decree saves banks of November 2015 was indeed an obligatory step to avoid the bail in force from 1 January 2016. It would have been possible to follow other roads, perhaps a rescue entirely borne by the national banking system. The Government argues that it was the European Commission that blocked this route, considering it to be equivalent to state aid. On the other hand, the Commission considers that - in the face of other options proposed - it was the Italian Government that chose the ruinous solution for small savers. The story has been nebulous since the beginning of 2015, when the People's Bank of Etruria and Lazio had been the subject of a structural reform, adopted by decree-law, which imposed on popular banks with assets of more than 8 billion euros on the transformation into public limited companies. A figure clearly measured with the precision necessary to bring back into the norm some banks, including the one of Etruria. We wonder where the urgency of this reform was, which could have been included in the draft competition law. The insider trading is a plausible explanation, considering that, by many popular banks, there have been abnormal transactions in the sale of shares. The People's Bank of Etruria and Lazio itself has seen an increase in the value of its stock market shares by more than 60%, compared with a development of the entire banking sector by 8.68 percent. The maximum sale of the Etruria Bank's securities took place in London, where the financier Davide Serra, a friend of the President of the Council, operated. The anonymous transactions of sale, according to the hearing of CONSOB Vegas president in the Chamber, began before January 16, 2015, the date on which Renzi announced the decree, in closed markets. On the same day, before the announcement, De Benedetti had sent a 5 million-dollar operation on the people. Within this framework, which constitutes a first general scenario of conflict of interest, as in a game of Chinese boxes, a second of equal gravity is grafted on the questionable role of the former vice president of Bankitalia Pierluigi Boschi, that on February 6 could be investigated for fraudulent bankruptcy, already condemned to the payment of 144,000 euros from Bankitalia for \'deficit in the organization and internal controls \', \'deficit in the management and control of the credit \\', \'omessesse and incorrect reports to the supervisory bodies \\', and the very serious irregularities by the administration of the Bank Etruria are added. First with daring operations that led the institution to the brink of bankruptcy, then pushing customers to subscribe to bonds at very high risk by offering assurances and, according to many testimonies, even exerting pressure. Jonathan Hill, European Commissioner for Financial Stability, said that bonds sold through unfair commercial practices by the four banks - Banca Marche, Banca Etruria, CariChieti and Carife - were produced unsuitable for savers, thus also calling in the field the responsibility of supervisory bodies. Where were they? Were they asleep? Where did they look? With subordinated bonds and shares, which have become rag paper, banks have paved the way for at least 20,000 investors who had spent almost all the money saved with the sacrifices of a lifetime. They are mostly small savers, older people, people with low education or at least without a financial preparation, driven to sign up for investments without knowing the risks, often committing all or much of their own small assets. Moreover, I would add: we know the forcings that take place in these institutions. Elders who for their children, for their activities or for the need to have a home ask for loans and - as we know, beyond the swamped forms with which we discuss - have no property, they are required, as a guarantee, to buy shares, tools to bind and determine positive choices of credit ignition. In the meantime, credit was granted by those same banks to entities very close to the management of institutions without even proper credit assessments. All this has also been facilitated by CONSOB's elimination, since 2011, of the probabilistic prospectuses on the bonds that could have allowed the possible repayment of the invested capital to be understood. The silence of the Bank of Italy and CONSOB on the inspection checks and the infringements detected rests on everything. In addition, on the case of Bank Etruria, I would like to give an example in particular: in autumn 2013 there was the issue of a subordinated bond worth a total of 50 million euros, with a ten-year duration and a rate of 5 percent gross per year (4 per cent net of taxes, according to the tax then), just over 3,8 per cent offered at that time by government bonds with equal maturity. The bonds were suitable for all pockets, each having a nominal value of 1,000 euros. Are we sure whoever bought them was able to realize that it was cardiopalm bonds? In the securities statement regarding the risks arising from the nature of subordinated bonds there was only one simple warning, written in a very cryptic language, which was not at all sufficient to warn a small saver. Then why was such an obligation acceptable to the bank's counters even by paying small figures, equal to just 1,000 euros? Such a small cut seems to be made specifically to place the titles in the pockets of as many people as possible under the false appearance of hyper-safe financial product. The decree saves banks has then reset the value of shares and subordinated bonds, prejudiced the possibility of asserting their rights to the new institutions (bad bank), to which they have been sold with an important unjustified discount the doubts credits and the four new banks that will shortly have to be sold. The shareholders would have no choice but to promote actions against the banks in compulsory administrative liquidation, but to date they are empty boxes. Hence the establishment of the Solidarity Fund and the idea of arbitration. In this way, small saver shareholders - not speculators, as this Government has tried to pass them on to the public - are excluded from the compensation procedures, whereas they should find protection when it is proven that they have been blameless victims of illegal conduct of the institutions. Renzi, intervening at "Quinta Colonna" on 25 January, also had the courage to declare: Those who have been conned in the case of Bank Etruria will be refunded up to the last cent. And we'd miss the other way around! Too bad, however, that the solidarity fund has too little capacity, which should be integrated in proportion to the compensations that will have to be matched and fed by the banks and by what will be recovered from the bad bank. We are talking about people who have unjustly lost the savings of a lifetime with a dole. I would like to recall Article 47 of what remains of our Constitution, which you have not succeeded in changing and which is still in force: The Republic encourages and protects savings in all its forms; it regulates, coordinates and controls the exercise of credit. It favours the access of popular savings to the property of the house, to the direct agricultural property and to the direct and indirect investment stock in the great productive complexes of the Country. I'm still making a point. The network of characters who tie this story to top government figures is too obscure. The father of Minister Boschi, who just became vice president of the Bank Etruria, in May 2014, starts a private exploration to look for a general manager addressing Valeriano Mureddu, Mason, friend of the Boschi and Renzi, investigated for a fraud of several million tax evasion, but also for association with criminals and the constitution of secret association, which in turn addresses Flavio Carboni, worker involved in some of the most murky events of the Italian banking system and not only, until he arrives at Fabio Arpe. And again, there is the connection between Tiziano Renzi and the president of Bankitalia Rosi through complex corporate mechanisms and finally with the pm of Arezzo, Roberto Rossi, who investigates Banketruria, and who for two times would have dealt with Pierluigi Boschi, when he was investigated for auction disturbance and extortion. In both cases it was Rossi who closed the investigations against Boschi. Senator colleagues, in the coming weeks we will begin the debate on civil unions in this House. Perhaps even earlier we should open a debate and clarify the ideas on the meaning that we still give to the word "civil," which comes from the Latin "civilis," derived from "civis," citizen. Well, I wonder: is it a civil country, for citizens, for people, where the banking system can unpunished and deliberately cheat honest people? Is it a civilized country where double standards are used when it comes to conflict of interest? Well, I think you're the ones who appeal to conscience on public holidays. In front of the drama of thousands of citizens what do you do? What do you do in the face of the anxiety of millions who know how everyday life is, hard, and who are alone in the face of the blackmailing power of credit institutions? You're alone. But for you there is the new Mr. Wolf, the "solving problems": Verdini thinks about it. I'm gonna go finish. Your conscience cries out and reminds you, if you have not noticed, that on the occasion of the vote that wounded the Italian Constitution Republican and anti-fascist was decisive the Verdini Group, immediately repaid with the positions of government and majority in the Commissions. Today it will be confirmed that, without the already constituted party of the nation (with the golden share in the hands of the Tuscan senator), this government no longer has a majority on anything; and consistency wants it to be noted. For consistency and decency, if you're okay with it, continue; but spare the complaints, the requests for clarification inside the PD, the fake threats next time. When most people change, they have a duty to tell the Italians. Or are you ashamed of it? It's up to you to answer. A government such as the one in office, which has deliberately protected systems responsible for serious behavior against citizens, is deeply inadequate to its role as guarantor of the public interest of the country (I do not claim to defend the weak). For this reason our vote is of distrust, especially in defense of the many honest people of this country. For us today it is a vow of conscience; yes, for reasons of merit and in full consciousness. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u159	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, I have little to add to this, after the perfect and admirable speech by my vicar, Senator Luigi Marino, whom I thank on behalf of the Group for the punctuality and incisiveness of his words. There is little left for me to add to that. I will then speak in a political key. I would like to remind you that the famous decree-law of which the President-in-Office of the Council spoke about the reform of popular banks, which is the central one from which this affair arises, has indeed led to a very important reform, which has long been called for by all the supervisory authorities in the sector and which has become absolutely urgent in order to increase the degree of stability of the entire national credit system. This reform has been commonly considered, even at European level, absolutely necessary to ensure transparency in the credit market in the ownership structure, fairness in the management of the bank and effectiveness in the provision of credit. The motions we are debating imply the dissemination of insider information before the decree is issued; but this insinuation - let us say this - is indeed unfounded. In fact, there was no need for any privileged source to know what was about to happen. Just consider that the daily newspaper "la Repubblica" of 3 January 2015 stated: The reform of popular banks in financial circles is heard from various lustres, but no one has ever been able to clean up the swamp. The same newspaper continued: This time, however, there are many who bet that something will be done, if only because the economic situation imposes it. On the other hand - I would add - it seems that the increase in volumes and prices occurred only after 19 January, when the measure was officially reported. It is good to remember - it has remembered the President of the Council - like the successive decree of February 2015 of the Ministry of the economy, with which it has been arranged, on proposal of the Bank of Italy (supervisory body), the dissolution of the organs of control and administration of the Banca People's of Etruria and Lazio, placing the bank in extraordinary administration, has been due and has not favored absolutely anyone. The same decree-law of November 2015 did not save, but submitted to resolution procedure the four banks in condition of failure. The decree-law in essence, Mr President, has allowed more than one million accountants, for more than EUR 3.4 billion of savings (some even spoke of 12 billion), to be safe and to maintain jobs for 7,000 employees and another 1,000 people in the pipeline. To the members of the Government goes my personal and political solidarity for everything that has occurred in recent months in relation to polemics that - let me say this - do not belong to the history of the speaker, because we have always argued that the polemics must be political, not on the individual subject, but on the action of the Government. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] There has been no safe conduct for directors, as the rules on compulsory winding-up have always provided for the same same rule that the Government has only reiterated. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to use the interbank deposit protection fund, which the European Commission's offices have effectively foreclosed, and the Government has necessarily had to resort to the National Resolution Fund. Of course, the situation of the simple savers, to whom the banks sold subordinated bonds without making them aware of the risks they faced, is very serious. But the government has quickly taken the necessary measures, and the President of the Council has said well: in this affair whoever has wrong will pay; we fully share this expression and make these words ours. We allow ourselves with great respect to quote President Mattarella's words in this regard when he said: A strict and careful assessment of responsibilities is required. He added: "The transparency, fairness and ethics of intermediaries, bankers and financial intermediaries are of primary importance and that: In addition to strengthening caution and rules, financial education projects and initiatives must be encouraged. In this sense - he said - it is usefully operating the Bank of Italy. Our credit system - said the President of the Republic - has resisted the blows of the crisis, proving to be more solid than others. This is attested by the fact that we did not have to make billion-dollar bank bailouts, unlike what happened to banks in other countries of the European Union, where private debts were converted into public debts. Well, the only references of the motion to government activities confirm instead the correctness and timeliness of the action of the competent ministries and the absolute impartiality in the adoption of the necessary measures. But the truth is another, Madam President. I believe that, returning to true politics, the considerable series of reforms carried out and in progress by the Government and its majority (even on the banking system) are proving precisely the opposite: the reformative action of the Government, tireless and tireless. In such a tight time the institutional, economic and administrative system has begun to change; I still remember the cutting of the tax wedge, the reform of the labour market, the electoral law, the civil responsibility of the magistrates, the reduction of the taxes of the work component of the IRAP, those related to agriculture, the elimination of taxes on the first house, the reform of the school, the reform of the public administration with the first series of implementing decrees, the constitutional reform now reached the goal of parliamentary approval and on which a referendum of historical scope will be held in October. But reforms on the banking system are also of enormous importance. In fact, the reform of popular banks itself has been expected for years, and was indispensable to increase the degree of stability of the entire national credit system. I am sorry that Mr Padoan is not in the Chamber, but it is as if he were there, because I would like to thank him personally and politically for the great result he achieved yesterday in the interests of Italy. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD]] : I am referring to the agreement reached by the Government with the European Commission on the banking suffering caused by the long recession, providing for the possibility of introducing rules, by the Government, which define a guarantee mechanism useful to dispose of the non-performing claims in the bank accounts. A problem that was considered by the European Commission itself as the most serious issue in the short term for the sustainability of our public finances and for support for recovery through the possibility that the banking system will finally be given better access to productive credit. But we do not want to use triumphant tones at all because the path of reforms, including structural reforms, is still long and difficult. We are only at the beginning of an economic recovery that has finally given the reversal of the minus sign in front of our GDP and of which we see the first effects on unemployment, but it is still too high, just as the economic recovery and employment in the different areas of the country are too diversified. While the European Commission highlights the risks arising, in the medium term, from our massive public debt. The People's Area, whose birth and responsibility is due to the same life as the legislature, the Government and the reforms, believes that, especially after the parliamentary approval of the constitutional reform, an even more demanding phase of the legislature should be opened to carry out the structural reforms indispensable for the country. Both the sustainability of public debt and the greater reduction in unemployment require higher economic growth than is expected; growth of more than 2% needs to be achieved. And for growth of this magnitude an even more incisive reduction of the tax burden is needed, which can only be achieved if the reduction of public expenditure and also the reduction of the stock of public debt through packages of incisive interventions to privatise the state's assets, an extremely rich and varied heritage between real estate assets, loans and equity. The role of public administration in the economy as a whole must be completely rethought, assuming a significant reduction in the perimeter of the State and its impact on the economy itself. This is the great challenge with which the People's Area intends to support with loyalty, responsibility and strength the Government and will do so with that sense of responsibility and correctness that has always distinguished it. In the interest of the Italians, of the supreme interest of the country, in the interest of all of us. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u162	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we must note that our President-in-Office of the Council is frankly embarrassing, because it is embarrassing for a President-in-Office of the Council to come to this House without knowing what measures he has taken. In fact, when he cites the Decree-Law of 24 January 2015 and talks about the transformation of popular banks into listed companies, it is clear that he does not know the content of the measure and does not even know the difference between a public limited company and a listed company. But even more embarrassing and serious are the lies that offend this House, that offend this institution, that offend the country, when it comes to saying here that it has saved a million accountants - a robotic term - when then the accountants of the largest of the four banks saved are only 70,000. What should we think about colleagues? That we're in front of someone who lies shamelessly. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] He lies to escape his responsibilities. He did not explain a single fact of those contained in the motions. He came here, as he himself said, to provoke. And this is a President-in-Office of the Council? Where is this President-in-Office of the Council when a debate was to be held here on very serious matters. Where is he? Playing the play station with Orfini maybe? Where did the President-in-Office go? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It had to remain in the debate because this, ladies and gentlemen, could be dismissed as a history of country, of local banks, of small trade if it were not that, at some point, names that are part of the darkest history of this country began to emerge. In fact, when you look with great ease at Masons and workers like Carboni, there is a problem. When you read the names of Ferramonti and Michael Ledeen connected to a whole power group that is not even a party current but is an organized power group, we have a problem. It's not a matter of a small country bank. The scenarios are quite different. When we presented the motion of distrust against this Government, it is because the story of the rescue of these banks, made pay to the other banks and savers, brings out a very serious picture of relations, which is organic with everything that has happened so far in our country since the President of the Council took office. And yet, he, the President of the Council, comes here to defend himself, and instead of explaining these relations involving the relatives of an important Minister - as it happens, the Minister of the most important reforms in the history of this country - instead - I repeat - to explain the relations of his relatives with the last director of the Bank Etruria and with Panamanian companies - because this emerges from the data - what does he do? He's coming to tell us that he's been stationed in Etruria Bank. Colleagues, do you think we're idiots? It is the Bank of Italy that has commissioner Banca Etruria. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You have to stop coming here and lying. Rather, it must explain to us how it is possible that in this country we want to liquidate the Constitution, born of the Resistance, through groups of connected subjects - not least this Carrai - who want to place at the top of very dangerous structures. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do we know the story of the Carrai family? We are talking about the black heart of this country, which has never accepted the Republican Constitution, which has climbed your party and which has nothing to do with the history of your party. But what appointments do we need to hear in this House to trigger the alarm bells? Doesn't Michael Ledeen mean anything to you? What did the Committee of Inquiry into the kidnapping and murder of Moro do if that name didn't tell you anything? Don't we have to be concerned when Carrai wants immunity to stick our noses into the lives of us citizens, of all the citizens of this country? This is a very serious moment. We will vote in favour of this motion of distrust because the current Government has not only hurt our country, but it is dangerous for all of us and for our democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's the real problem. It won't be two provocations and some lies to save him. Italic vice will save him to jump on the chariot of the victors, but this chariot, dear lords, leads to ruin; come down while you are in time, because this will be your ruin. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u165	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representatives of the Government, our leader, President Berlusconi, has repeatedly denounced the condition of suspended democracy that we live in Italy, and also the construction by Renzi of its own system for its own use and consumption. A government, moreover, with a majority made largely of refugees and for other parts of elected Members thanks to a majority prize that the Constitutional Court has called illegitimate. Well, with this improper majority of refugees and rejected by the Court, we even want to rewrite the Constitution. So, as Berlusconi said, Renzi is a clandestine in Parliament; an illegitimate President who should not be heard. Instead, he comes here, makes an act of parliamentary bullying, talks to the gang of Ministers and then leaves, with an act of supreme contempt of Parliament, to show once more the arrogance that belongs to him. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] But if he thinks he's scaring us with this bullying attitude, he certainly found the right interlocutors. The Premier also made a list of issues, to which we could address, point by point, but we do not have the time. We could talk about employment failures: with the Biagi law, unemployment was 8%. On immigration, those who are now silent in front of Rohani, had protested for a tent of Gaddafi, mounted for a day. Better the Gaddafi tent for one day, to block the illegals, than to cover the statues of the Capitol, to welcome an anti-Semitic like Rohani. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Centinario and Taverna]] Today is the day of the Holocaust's memory and you celebrated it by covering the statues in front of one who wants to destroy Israel. This is the Renzi Government! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Centinario]] We could talk for a long time, as other colleagues have done, about Carrai and Via degli Alfani, in Florence: he paid the house and Renzi put us the residence of convenience. If someone does you a favor, in return you can do him a courtesy, but he has already paid off, making him president of the airport and president of everything. Do we even want to give him cybersecurity? Go ahead, Renzi: he will find bread for his teeth, as Paolo Romani said the other day, in his explanation of vote on constitutional reforms. I could mention the appointment of Calenda in Brussels, which put the Government against the whole diplomatic world, Carrai's nomination hypothesis, the maneuvers on the Finance Guard. Go ahead! On the matter of our motion of distrust, which concerns the banking affair of Banca Etruria, we could talk for a long time and other colleagues have done so. There are abnormal balances and shadow vertices. I see that Senator Verdini is not here. Well, dear Verdini, now you can also have lunch with Carboni! If you were in the middle right, they would charge you with the P3, if you're with the Boschi family, you're just contacting a headhunter. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] So, you also cleared lunches and dinners with Carboni, which you can now have. Take advantage of it! I say this in friendly terms, because for me the P3 was a hoax and therefore Boschi can also go to lunch with Carboni, which seems to me an old man more ridiculous than dangerous. It happens, however, that the Boschi family sold the shares of the Etruria Bank when they were at their peaks: financial wisdom or did anyone in the family know about the measures concerning the popular banks? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] The insider trading maybe did some government family too. You've had someone resign for a watch, and someone else I don't know what issue the IMU has to deal with. In this case, however, this gigantic conflict of interest continues. The Bank of Italy investigated, perhaps with a bit of lateness: it could have woke up earlier. So let's leave out a lot of details that we could offer you. Minister Boschi, I turn to you, since Renzi runs away, first he's a guappo and then he's a rabbit and he runs away. Therefore, you have issued a measure, a famous legislative decree, which, in paragraph 3 of Article 35, introducing two words, "social creditor", has sheltered his father and other people, who have managed the Etruria Bank. So the conflict is a real, normative, legislative fact, it is not only a moral fact: if one has the father, he certainly cannot refuse it, there would be more. We are not questioning family relationships, but the rules, which have been made. Gentlemen of the Government, there is a majority change: take note of this! Where are Gotor, Bersani, Lilli Gruber and Hope? There's a majority change! It can be done with the transfugees. You will say that it was also done in the other legislatures, but it was a mistake, it was a bad thing, one does not live well with parliamentary adventures and we have experienced it. I'd also like to tell the gentlemen on the left that you can have faith tonight. Renzi said: "Senators come to us, because you make the motion on the Etruria Bank." No, they come because you make them Vice Presidents of the Commissions! Those didn't even read the parliamentary motions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Bottici.]] Who do you want to tell this to? Then reality can also admit everything and therefore also Renzi who, whimsical, tells us these things. I suggest you buy the new issue of Panorama in the newsstand tomorrow: the cover is the one in my hand. Weekends throw the afternoon before: I don't have Carrai in my employ. The agencies sent it: tomorrow is Thursday and the weekly will go out to newsstands. On the cover we find written: Famiglia Boschi: here are the proofs. Panorama has already forced Judge Rossi... Renzi said: "But then there are the judges who judge us!" But there is judge and judge: Rossi, Attorney of Arezzo, appoints him as a consultant to the Presidency of the Council. A member of the CSM, Zanettin, a former senator, opens the conflict of interest and asks the CSM to investigate. Rossi says he's never met anyone, never seen anyone, and there's no conflict. CSM says, "Excuse me, Dr. Rossi, go back to Arezzo." Then, on January 28, the weekly "Panorama" publishes an inquiry and shows that Rossi knew the Woods. The CSM - what a beautiful and ridiculous figure - had to reopen the investigation on Rossi. Tomorrow, the inquiry by Panorama will explain three more lies. First, Judge Rossi, who said he did not know Boschi, arranged a search at the Boschi house in 2010. He did this search, of which he must remember (how many searches does he make?). So, Judge Rossi lied. There is a second lie: Fanfani (not the one who presided over this Assembly, but the contemporary one who was mayor of Arezzo, a city at random) had said that, according to the CSM, he had dealt with Rossi and not Boschi. It happens - it's written in the inquiry of "Panorama" in the newsstand tomorrow - he was appointed lawyer of the Boschi Fanfani family father and not the children who hold the study while he is at the CSM (because then he was not at the CSM). There are other lies: Boschi does not know Rossi. Boschi had gone to a convention organized by D.A. Rossi and they saw the photos. In 2013 there had been another one of which you, who were not yet Minister, left and made a report. Dear Renzi, if the judge is like Rossi, appointed consultant, who makes conferences and is friend of friends, then I also want to be judged by the Rossi of the situation! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Get me some Rossi and help me. It's no use coming here to bully the judge. These events you will read tomorrow, but we have anticipated them because they demonstrate the many lies that have been told. Not to mention Serra's insider trading. Last Sunday Lucia Annunziata went directly on her knees in Davos to interview Serra, who said: With Matteo Renzi we exchange text messages. So you do a little insider trading: "What decree do you make tomorrow?" What are we gonna do about the artisan crates? Shall we do the popular banks? And Serra makes money. Then, when the campaign comes, don't you want to make a contribution to Leopolda? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Mr Gasparri, since you have parliamentary immunity, it does not seem right to report crimes. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I'm reporting facts. Why didn't Lucia Annunziata go to interview Serra on her knees the other day? Wasn't there an investigation into Serra's insider trading? PRESIDENT. - The debate is These are complaints against which you have immunity. [[Senator Malan's comments.]] Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I enjoy the truth, not immunity, dear President. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u166	Yes, you have parliamentary immunity in the performance of your duties. Continue without denouncing people who can't defend themselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u167	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). We are in Parliament, let him speak! Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I don't know if I'm out of time, but I don't want to hurt her. Minister Boschi, I have consulted wizard Otelma, who told me that you will have confidence this evening. Generally, the wizard Otelma guesses us, but what do you do with this confidence if you stay on the penis, when the tires are worn out and there are stomach pains of the left? I saw Senator Gotor arrived in the Chamber. Senator Barani, you'll see how those on the left, who suck a little bit at your vote, will call you when you need it on the stepchild adoption, saying, Dear Senator Barani, do you give us a vow of the left that the left can't be? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] They'll do it! We are then pleased to have tabled the motion of no confidence for the arrogance that Renzi has shown today and for your lies. I could fill you with details that are not crimes, but truth, because on the events of Serra and others are being investigated. Sure, if Rossi's gonna make the investigation, they're gonna give Serra a medal in the end. I hope there is a judge, as the President-in-Office of the Council says. The President of the Council boasts many triumphs, but the shame of yesterday was very serious and global: instead of covering the statues at the Capitol in front of anti-Semitic Rouhani, perhaps you had to cover the shame of your Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and LN-Aut. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u170	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, on a point of order. I have just seen an embarrassing scene when I see the Government here - Mr Boschi and Mr Scalfarotto - calling you to intervene to block Senator Gasparri. The government doesn't have to be in here! [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u171	First of all, you do not allow yourself to address the Presidency in this way. I called Senator Gasparri for the simple reason that you can't report crimes without having to answer. [[Senator Centinario's comments.]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). What do you want, Parliament's shame?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u174	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, the Senators of the Democratic Party will vote against the motions of mistrust that we are discussing. If I remain on the subject, my explanation of vote could end here, with the announcement of our vote against, referring to the debate a few weeks ago to the House of Deputies. But the motions have a content and above all they have a meaning, a political direction from which one cannot and must not escape, especially in such a complex and difficult phase of the life of our country. So I, also helped by the interventions of Senator Gasparri and Senator Giarrusso, would really like to talk about politics today. The first question I ask myself is what may be the reasons behind opposition groups, which have recently been different in all (different in the electorate, programmes, perspectives), in fact to reach a cooperation agreement and to march together well beyond these motions of distrust. Same acts of opposition, same arguments, same timing, common operational meetings to divide the offices of the Commissions, up to use together the secret vote to mark a blitz that is very little transparent and of great inconsistency. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Honorable Di Maio, leader of the 5 Star Movement... [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] NUGNES (M5S). You can't talk about who's not here! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's talk. ZANDA (PD). I mentioned one of their leaders, not their enemies, I don't understand what the problem is. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us speak; it seems to me that there have been extensive quotations between Members of Parliament. I didn't understand what the problem was. Senator Zanda, continue. CRIMI (M5S). President, you've always interrupted us. ZANDA (PD). Listen up. I have a lot of respect for Mr Di Maio and I do not mean anything to disturb his goodness and his position. The Honorable Di Maio, leader of the 5 Star Movement... SANTANGELO (M5S). It's not like that! Mr Paglini (M5S). We have no leader in the 5 Star Movement! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But this is a political assessment. Senator Santangelo, let Senator Zanda speak. It is not an accusation to say that one is a political leader. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Senator Zanda, continue. [[Recalls of the President]] ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I correct myself. I apologize for using an unpleasant term: he is not a leader, Mr Di Maio delMovemento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Chiavaroli and Bianconi).]] MARTON (M5S). What's so funny, ma'am? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm not laughing, Senator Marton, calm down. Go ahead, Senator Zanda. ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I would like you to take these interruptions into account when calculating time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As we have also taken this into account for other interventions. ZANDA (PD). The Honorable Di Maio of the 5 Star Movement has branded as a mistake the decisive vote for the election of the Senator of Forza Italia Altero Matteoli to President of the Commission public works. From the Senators of the 5 Star Movement of that Commission I expect consistent behavior, although it is much easier to write motions of distrust than to keep a straight line. [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Like yours on civil unions! 18.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u175	Senator Airola and Senator Santangelo, please allow the surgery as well as previous interventions were allowed. [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] Interventions must be allowed. [[Live comments from Senator Paglini]] Quiet. Please, Senator Zanda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u176	In essence, the scheme of motions which we are debating takes up the arguments put forward in the House, in a debate which saw not only a large ban on the demands for mistrust on Mr Boschi, but which showed the absolute voidness and inconsistency of the reasons for his support. [[Live comments from Senator Catalfo.]] Today's session was requested for one reason only, in order to be able to reply to the Senate a debate that the House had managed to hold before us; this argument would be sufficient to demonstrate, to abundantiam, the need to abolish equal bicameralism. The texts of the motions show a clear lack of content, which confirms its political presupposition. Among so many ways of opposing, this is not the best. Starting from non-existent conflicts of interest, the motions address the crisis of the four banks, the behaviour of their bodies, the parliamentary and governmental decisions that concern them, the action of control and supervision over the banking system, the new rules of the popular banks that also Europe, besides the Bank of Italy, has been soliciting for decades. These are central issues for our future. If the opposition intends to open a serious discussion on this subject with the Government and the majority, then the places where to examine the facts are not the current ones but also the historical ones that have determined them: they are very different from an afternoon of discussion on motions that put everything in place and the opposite of everything. The first natural seat is the Senate, where in the Finance Committee the examination of the eight draft laws that propose a bicameral inquiry on the defense of savers, on the collection of credit, on the effectiveness of the rules that oversee the controls. [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]] The extent of the content of the acts on which the Commission is working shows that the problems of credit and the banking system must be dealt with in the proper forums and methods, i.e. by an honest analysis of the facts, the conditions on the sidelines, the state of the legislation, the positions of our country in the international fora where European policies on credit have been set and where, consequently, the rules governing the banking crises have been determined. I will express my opinion on the Commission of Inquiry in the Senate when the time comes. Today I say that this is a matter of extreme sensitivity. Personally, I would never share parliamentary instruments that had the surreptitious objective of weakening our institutions and, with them, saving. We need truth, not weak institutions. Likewise, I would never vote for initiatives that intended to put real trials on people, invading the field that the division of powers assigns to the judicial authority. It is our duty to make clarity, to protect credit, to protect savings, to strengthen the functions of public institutions and to correct any errors, to produce forward-looking and fair legislation, especially in sensitive matters. In the exercise of our inspection duties, we must never forget that we are not magistrates. We are the Parliament and the power we belong to is not the judicial one, but the legislative one. You don't face the great problems of the country in this way, with motions that just want to prove that the opposition exists. The political struggle must not use matters of such great national interest to try to put its opponent in trouble. Today's debate is emblematic of the difficult condition of the Italian political system. It is right that Parliament, the majority and the government should take account of their positions and their work; it is right that the MPs of the Democratic Party should be asked for transparent political action and that their behaviour should be continuously analysed, verified, almost vivisected by oppositions, the media and national and international observers. The Democratic Party has accepted the challenges of our times: it attacks the crisis, it fights unemployment, it addresses the major issues of public administration, school, culture, procurement, anti-corruption, civil and criminal justice, technological innovation. In a word, the Democratic Party undergoes daily public scrutiny, accepts its criticism, works to live up to the problems and in the meantime what does the opposition do besides presenting motions? What are you doing? It gives much thought to how little oppositions agree to question themselves. They suffer small, large and very large divisions; from a party they are born four; they forgive senators to dozens [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups),]] But on all this there is never their public reflection, a word of rethinking, some questions and some answers. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There are many specific reasons, personal and political, for the decline so profound and radical of the Italian centre-right. It also has a parliamentary position to play not on ideas, but on daily, defatigating requests for a quorum. [[Comments from the M5S Group),]] on thousands if not millions of amendments, on preconstitutional preconstitutional measures, on unjustified references to the Rules of Procedure, on motions of mistrust which I call serial. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Time! ZANDA (PD). Just to remain topical, this morning the Senate discussed the ILVA and its very serious problems and the meaning of the interventions of most of the opposition senators was clear: for them the future of ILVA and Italian steel counts less, much less, than the desire to create problems for the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] NUGNES (M5S). False, liar! You can't say that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Nugnes, don't interrupt. NUGNES (M5S). I feel offended. I feel deeply offended! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I'll call you back to order. ZANDA (PD). I wonder what these political attitudes are for the same opposition. What consensus do they think they will get with these methods? In the so-called first Republic, majority and opposition have always faced, even harshly, opposing different models of societies, different international alliances, different principles and different visions. [[Comments on the M5S Group.]] At that time, the government's motions of distrust were very serious and the basis of obstructionism and regulatory battles were always major political issues. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Time! ZANDA (PD). Mr. President, I have to scream to make myself heard. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish, though. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Quiet! Allow Senator Zanda to finish his speech. Mr President, I shall finish, but I have been interrupted many times and I would like this time to be recovered. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] At that time there was no need to invent paper wars, fake wars. The political battles were fought on ideas and ideals, on the daily government of the country and on the great strategies of the medium and long term. Senator colleagues, Parliament has been committed to major and profound reforms for two years. This is not the place to return to that debate, to what accompanied the work on constitutional reform and electoral law. All I'm saying is that major institutional reforms are the right tool to make the state structure evolve and improve its efficiency. [[Comments from Senator Fattori.]] However, reforms and rules alone will never be able to mature the political system. Politics is not done by decree. [[Comments from Senator Fattori.]] The evolution of the political system depends on the human factor, on us and only on us, the majority and opposition, on our will, on our sense of responsibility and on our political culture. My appeal to the opposition - and look at it as a sincere appeal - is to move from a parliamentary struggle made up of amendments, motions of mistrust and references to the Rules of Procedure, to a serious debate on the future of Italy and the measures necessary to get out of the crisis. [[Comments of the M5S Group.]] It is urgent, very urgent for our country, that oppositions find a real and non-instrumental unity among themselves, that they abandon the policy of the amendment and come down to confront themselves with the majority in terms of programmes and ideas. For the majority, weak opposition is neither a strength nor an advantage. An opposition that fails to build a good political profile is an obstacle to confrontation and makes the government's action much less expedited. WOMAN (M5S). President, time! The law is the same for everyone! ZANDA (PD). Gentlemen of the Government, the Senators of the Democratic Party want to discuss politics, assume their responsibilities, participate in the solution of Italy's problems. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Time! Time! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't interrupt! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Then I give more time because you interrupt. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Bravo! [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group and Senator Crosio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u177	Let's get this over with! Conclude, Senator Zanda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u178	ZANDA (PD). President, mature democracies work well... AIROLA (M5S). Call us when it's over! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order. AIROLA (M5S). Yeah, he always calls me back. Call me when you're done, I'll go to the toilet! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's good to get out, Senator Airola. Conclude, Senator Zanda. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] ZANDA (PD). Mature democracies work well if the dialectic between majority and opposition takes place on policies, on the content of measures, on principles. [[Comments from Senator Fattori.]] FACTORS (M5S). Shame! All you do is marcette! You're marchers! ZANDA (PD). We ask the opposition to measure itself on ideas, not on motions from the obvious outcome and content so pretentious and instrumental. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u179	In accordance with Article 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and Article 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the nominal vote by appeal of motion No 501, presented by Senators Centinario, Romani Paolo and other senators. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators in favour of the motion of distrust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Gentile is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Gentile. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group at Senator Bencini's address at the time of the vote. Exchange of apostrophes between Senators Bencini and Tavern]] . The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Aracri, Arrigoni, Augello Barozzino, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Blundo, Boccardi, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolilli, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagna, Consiglio, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Pin, Di Maggio, Divina, Donno Endrizzo Fasano, Scigliano, Fattori, Floris Gaetti, Galimberti, Gasparri, Gibiino, Giovanardi, Girotto Liuzzi, Lucidi Malan, Mandelli, Sci, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Marini, Marini Senators say no: Aiello, Albano, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Auricchio, Azzolini Barani, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bilinella, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbio, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Chivaroli, Chiti, Cirinnà, Cocincich, Collina, De Poli, Del Barba, Fattorini Favero, Di Biagio, Di Giacomo, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Falanga, Fasiolo, Fatorini Favero, Favero Senators abstain: Fucksia. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of motion 501 of no confidence to the Government, presented by Senators Centinario, Romani Paolo and other senators: [[Senators present 281 Senators voting 280 Majority 141 Favorable 101 Contrari 178 Absent 1]] The Senate doesn't approve. Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and Rule 161, paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by appeal of motion 510, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators in favour of the motion of distrust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Simeoni is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Simeoni. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Aracri Barozzino, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Blundo, Bocchino, Bottici, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio Lucidi Malan, De Cristofaro, De Pin, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Fasano, Fattori, Floris Gaetti, Galimberti, Gasparri, Giarrusso, Gibiino, Girotto Lucidi Malan, Mandelli, Mangili, Marin, Martelli, Martelli, Marteoli, Matteoli, Mauro Mario Walter, Messina, Mineo, Minezolini, Montevecchi, Moronese, Morra, Mussini Nugnes Segnes Simeoni, Pelini Pelini, Pelini, Pelino, Pelini, Pelini, Pelini, Pertellini, Pertellino, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, S. Senators say no: Aiello, Albano, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Auricchio, Azzolini Barani, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bilinella, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbio, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Chivaroli, Chiti, Cirinnà, Cocincich, Collina, De Poli, Del Barba, Fattorini Favero, Di Biagio, Di Giacomo, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Falanga, Fasiolo, Fatorini Favero, Favero The senators are abstaining: Fucksia. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of motion 510, of no confidence in the Government, presented by Senator Giarrusso and other senators: [[Senators present 262 Senators voting 261 Majority 131 Favorables 84 Contrari 176 Absent 1]] The Senate doesn't approve.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u180	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-566.ana.u181	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 28 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.32 a.m.
