ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 27 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u4	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.36 a.m. and resumed at 9.56 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u6	I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the time limit of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:57 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u11	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask a minimum of attention to the problem that I am about to face, because it concerns the Senate. The Senate is a constitutional body and therefore mandatory. It must therefore be renewable at any time. Last week I pointed out that it was impossible to renew the Senate, given that the ten regions that have two senators cannot combine all the requirements of the Constitution, namely respect for the balance between men and women, the fact that they must be attributed with a proportional system, the fact, even more incomprehensible, that the seats are attributed by virtue of the votes expressed, that is by the proportional method, and the composition of each Council, that is proportional and majority. No one gave me an answer, but the matter remains and weighs like a boulder. This Saturday, from a further deepening, I verify that the Trentino-Alto Adige, contrary to what always maintained (i.e. that this Region would have expressed two senators for Trento and two for Bolzano), could have not four, but six. This is because Article 57, paragraph 2, provides that the Regional Councils and the Councils of the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano elect... president. Forgive me, Senator Calderoli, but I invite you to stick to the order of business of this sitting. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Let me get to the point, Madam President. We really talk about everything here. This is an issue on which we will be called to vote as citizens in a referendum. There are holes in this reform. Can we report them here and not just go make statements in the newspapers? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u12	Yes, Senator Calderoli, but there is also an order of business. Keep going, but get to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u13	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, the question of whether there are four or six senators is important, because, by cascade, those two additional senators are being taken away from all the other regions. In this way, the Liguria Region will have two and the Trentino-Alto Adige will have six, and this seems incomprehensible. But outside of this, having placed the issue at the level of Article 40, there were no longer any arrangements for calculating the electoral quotients and the way in which seats were allocated. No one has given me an answer and the people who are interested will tell me that an electoral law will be made. All right! Too bad that, if the reform were to be adopted, the electoral law should be within the reform itself. But he's not here! We come to the last point, which is really resounding. It is said that the Regional Councils elect senators from among their members. I take the Statute of the Sicilian Region, because it is the most dated. In Article 3 (7), it provides that the office of regional Member shall be incompatible with that of a member of one of the Chambers, of a Regional Council, or of the European Parliament. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]] I can tell you that this is an incompatibility and that therefore this regional adviser or, better, a regional Member could resign. But the moment he resigned, he couldn't be a senator anymore! And here will pity the poor Sicilians, who will not be able to elect their senators. I then went to examine the Statutes of the other Regions with a special statute: this clause is also present in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Sardinia, Trentino-Alto Adige and Valle d'Aosta.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u14	Excuse me, Senator Calderoli, I would like to say this to you: the question you are asking would require a debate that cannot be held today because it is not on the agenda. I would therefore urge you, if you consider it appropriate, to ask for this matter to be included on the agenda of a forthcoming sitting, so that everyone can intervene, since this is not allowed today and I personally will not allow it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u15	Madam President, I denounced today a state of the art for which the Senate is not renewable. If you think that making such a communication to this House is inappropriate, then I am sorry, but I did the wrong job, or someone else did it wrong. Madam President, this is incomprehensible. Walter Chiari had called the beast indefinable "sarchiapone."Well, this is a sarchiapone. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]] There is the risk of not being able to elect the new Senate, if, unfortunately, on December 4th, constitutional reform were to be confirmed, with the referendum vote; perhaps, if I were the President of the Senate of the Republic, some doubt I would put it to myself and, above all, I would like to let the citizens know the "porcata" that we are called to vote, so we are not even able to renew a constitutional body. [[Applause from LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and Senators Campanella and Liuzzi]] Madam President, to close this morning, I heard Mr Boschi make some statements, which I had already heard from the President-in-Office of the Council: once again cancer patients have been called into question to say that, with the reform, treatment will be guaranteed at national level. We cannot exploit the sick in relation to a competence, that of cancer treatment, which concerns LEAs, the essential levels of care, which are state matters and have nothing to do with reform. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u16	Senator Calderoli, we take note of your complaint.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u17	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2233 and 2229. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the general discussion was concluded and the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government and the examination of the articles of draft law No 2233, in the text proposed by the Commission, took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u20	ZIZA (CoR). Madam President, the debate on this measure was a sensitive and urgent matter and, above all, a matter of priority. It has required a careful analysis of all the measures which, after the work done in the Commission, have come to this House. We, as opposition, have made our contribution and done our part. The general design of both draft laws was an attempt, correct on some aspects, to end the inequality of the labour market, trying to give a signal of equity and dignity to self-employment and professionalism, giving priority to the world of so-called VAT matches, freelancers and freelancers, but remaining excluded from entrepreneurs. We know that the world of work and the approach to the market have changed and are changing. The prospects for those who enter or enter the professional circuit are no longer those of ten or twenty years ago, but have changed, and it is right that laws adapt to such changes. Our economy is based to a great extent on self-employment, as demonstrated by the increase in VAT-coded workers, who for years in the labour market have shrunk in the dark, not being recognized as just rights and guarantees. 10:03 a.m. (ZIZZA followed). One of the most interesting aspects of this measure was the creation of an intermediary desk, which will collect applications and offers for self-employment and provide - at least in this way we hope - information to the professionals and businesses who will apply for it. However, the necessary operational synergies must be put in place to ensure that the mechanism works and does not result in yet another window against which the hopes and dreams of those who want to work are broken. On this, as on other aspects, we have seen with satisfaction the approval of some of our amendments by the Commission's work. Others were then accepted by the rapporteur, who considered them to be a positive contribution to this text. I refer above all to the reference to the attempt to reconcile in the event of a dispute concerning compensation for damages, but above all to the performance of the functions that they can and that they could have the patrons, who, for their proven experience in the field of social security and employment, for their widespread presence on the national territory, for their professionalism and qualification, could carry out procedures indicated by that rule. Finally, it should be stressed that today's employment centres are undersized and need the workforce to ensure those services that we consider essential for performance. The extension of the rule to the institutions of patronage would certainly have given more strength and more services to the world of work, but it was not possible; therefore the patrons in this case, too, will remain out of these services, although in many cases they are directly dependent on trade unions. We would have welcomed the simplification rules on some of the issues relating to the draft legislation that we and other amendments are proposing, but that was not the case. However, the general system of the measure does not see us against it. For this and for other reasons I announce the abstention vote of the Group of Conservatives and Reformists. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u23	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the measure we have voted on over the past few hours certainly represents a step forward in terms of sensitivity towards the world of work which, as is well known, is varied: there is not only employee work, but also self-employed work and VAT consignments. It is clear that in the face of this we would have expected a much more determined and comprehensive intervention from the Government. It is not a novelty: we are in the pre-election phase, so everything that happens is inevitably brought back to an opportunistic logic by the Executive, but also put in disorder by the majority groups to prevent that, going to deal seriously and concretely with issues such as those of self-employment, you can have frictions within the Groups themselves. This attitude obviously leaves us unsatisfied, because the cut in the debate is turned more to opportunity and opportunism than to the concreteness that should characterize its contents. The rapporteur has done a good job, but he has not satisfied us with the rejection of the amendments we have tabled and which would have given further dignity and recognition to self-employment and, above all, a real equalisation with respect to workers' rights. Too often it is forgotten by the Government that Italy is a democratic Republic based on work and not on finance; moreover, all too often, unfortunately, the same pension becomes an opportunity to finance the holes of social security institutions rather than to give a solution to the future pension and social security of workers. Mr President, on this occasion I can only call on the Government to pay great attention in the coming hours (and we will be extremely determined on this) to the self-employed as well as those employed in the earthquake zones. With the draft law under consideration we have highlighted the fact that there is a problem of self-employment which must be considered and we want to see what will contain the measure that will arrive Friday from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport or from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in the matter of aid and support to those who have lost the ability to exercise a profession because of seismic events in the earthquake areas. We hope that there will not be yet another announcement untied by the concreteness of the facts, given exclusively by the financing of the resources. We certainly need to work even more and with determination on the deductibility of expenses; we need, without a doubt, to define levels, as regards self-employed professionals, with regard to the payment of benefits, avoiding that vicious gorgo for which in the end there is even an over-exposure while waiting to cash in. On this we have made some progress, but there is not (as we have already pointed out) that determination that we expected. Finally, we see that the self-employed are given a precise framework or definition of employee work: these are steps that must be taken. However, we have learned not to trust the government's actions from the jobs act, that is, from this expression used in a very instrumental way using a foreign language to prevent people from realizing that it was a job reform. Then the government chose - and the majority obviously bent - to separate self-employment from employee work. We are still convinced that if there is no overall and synoptic consideration of the two issues, there is a risk of maintaining grey areas on which the measure will not be able to give the positive results that would be needed instead. Against this, our vote will be a abstention, considering in the future, with the implementation of the measure itself, what will result and if we will face yet another pre-election boutade. We are faced with a constitutional reform that the Government is trying to impose with methods that have nothing to do with respect for democracy, but that all have to do with propaganda systems from detergent sellers, with respect to the content. We want to see in fact what will happen. We will not be against it, but we will wait to see the evidence. And we invite you to be serious and to envisage the allocation of resources, not to limit yourself to definitions of principle to which they do not follow, as in the case of jobs act, implementing decrees. The latter, which we are waiting for, aim to keep the majority glued rather than to give work to our fellow citizens and to solve the problems of employment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u26	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Sacconi, who has carried out a measure which will be put to the vote today and which is extremely interesting and long awaited, because it concerns important provisions for the protection of non-business self-employment and is aimed at all professional activities and freelancers. The first qualifying point of this bill is to finally recognize the dignity and value - as the rapporteur told us in his report - of self-employment, demonstrating an authentic and concrete interest in the demands that representatives of this important economic fabric of our country, who are the free professionals, have been advancing for a long time. I quickly remember the highlights of the bill. Firstly, the scope: Article 1 provides that the provisions shall apply to all self-employment relationships, including intellectual professions. The protection of payments for the self-employed, as stated in Article 2; the protection also applies to commercial transactions between self-employed workers and public administrations which, as we know, are very often characterized - alas - by hugely long payment times (in some regions these times are even biblical). The deductibility of training costs, as referred to in Article 8, is a very important subject which has been the subject of amendments and discussions within us: there is the full deductibility of the costs incurred for training and updating, even if within the limit of 10,000 euros per year, as well as the costs of registration at conferences or congresses. In addition, it is worth remembering that the costs incurred by the self-employed for the certification of skills, guidance and research services are also fully deductible, within the limit of EUR 5.000 per year. Another salient point is the door dedicated to self-employment. Innovative and interesting is the forecast provided for in Article 9 that employment centres and bodies authorised for work intermediation must have a desk dedicated to self-employment, including by entering into agreements with professional bodies. I would also like to mention access to public procurement. This provision is contained in Article 11, which aims to enable self-employed persons to participate in public procurement and to facilitate access to information relating to public invitations to tender. However, this provision should be coordinated with the Government's decree on public procurement, which does not include freelancers in the list of entities covered by the concept of an economic operator who is allowed to participate in public procurement procedures. As far as access to European funds is concerned, for access to the Structural Funds, the self-employed are treated as small and medium-sized enterprises. This is an important rule because it allows free Italian professionals to finally be able to participate in European calls, projecting them into a transnational dimension, neither more nor less than happens in other countries. As regards maternity and parental leave, the measure introduces certain provisions to protect at last those who are enrolled in separate management. The right to parental leave extends from three to six months within the three years of the child's life. With regard to pregnancy, illness and accident, provisions of considerable impact are introduced, since it is expected that the pregnancy, illness and accident of workers who work continuously for the client will not result in the termination of the employment relationship, but its execution will be suspended without entitlement to the payment for a period not exceeding 150 days per calendar year. It seems interesting to us then the possibility expressed by paragraph 2 of Article 13 that in the case of maternity, even if with the consent of the client, the self-employed worker has the possibility to be replaced at work by a family member of the worker herself, or even by any members, also through the recognition of forms of cohabitation. This will certainly be an area to explore that could reserve positive surprises. It is also expected that, in the event of illness which prevents work for more than sixty days, the payment of contributions will be suspended for the duration of the illness, within a maximum of two years. Another important point is the provision on professional cashiers. It is therefore a draft law which my Group will vote for because it was awaited and indispensable. In the same way, it is important and fair to equal hospital stays for periods of disease certified as a result of treatment of cancer diseases of self-employed persons enrolled in separate management. Although perhaps it would be appropriate not to stop at cancer diseases alone and to extend the forecast to others as well. In the Commission, however, this article has been deleted and that is a pity for us. As far as the forecasts concerning agile work are concerned, this is a flexible mode of execution of the subordinate employment relationship, a new tool that embodies a new idea of work, more suited to the new productive models that seem to assert themselves in modernity (think about smart working and teleworking) where hybrid professional figures are increasingly widespread, which are halfway between research and the management of change in organizational and productive processes, achieving a full integration between work, learning, research and design. The parties may agree at the workplace, which may be partly within the company and partly outside, as well as working time is free of rigid constraints. It is important, for the sake of full clarity of the rules governing agile work, to have provided for the legal treatment that the worker engaged in agile work is entitled to no less economic and regulatory treatment than that of the worker carrying out the same duties within the company. Therefore, it is certainly a positive measure allowing workers and clients to agree freely to adapt the working relationship rules they intend to undertake to their specific needs, including working hours and workplaces, so as to bring together the variable needs of the objectives to be achieved in production with the worker's personal needs or lifestyles. So, net of some criticalities - we do not believe that the bill is perfect, because it can always be improved - we believe that what is done is very positive and that is why we express an excellent judgment on the provision. We consider it good and deserves our support. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u29	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, following the emergence of new technologies and the globalization of markets, there have been profound changes in the production system and with it also in the organizational system of work. More and more work becomes flexible and is no longer characterised by a fixed job for life, by a single place of work and not even by a fixed time. More and more workers carry out their activities in a form not only autonomous, but also and above all through types of contract "atypical". Unfortunately, these atypical forms have strongly suffered the consequences of the economic crisis, going to constitute in the world of work a social reality apart from that more than others risk slipping towards poverty and the insecurity of the continuity of work and, therefore, also in the planning of one's own life with all the effects connected, up to the risk of being socially excluded. However, it is also worth reflecting on the positive aspects of flexible forms of work. It is interesting to think that each individual can personalize his/her work either on the basis of the possibility of expressing himself/herself or on the basis of his/her logistical and hourly needs. This - with due protection and due security - is a good expression of the modern world of work. Therefore, while flexibility increasingly takes on a dominant criterion in today's work organisation, it is extremely important to also ensure worker safety. The measure we are about to adopt in this House today is an expression of targeted policies which must serve to improve the situation of the categories that are particularly and critically exposed (from the point of view of the tax and in the way people think), starting with those that do not refer to a specific professional register. This law mainly concerns young people, the generations employed in the new services and tertiary professions of the last generation. The aim is to pursue the universality of the protection of self-employed workers, and this text is certainly a step in the right direction. Of course, it is not resolving the difficulties of such a vast and particularly heterogeneous and articulated sector, but the innovations introduced convince us especially in the part relating to work from home or remote, which aims to reconcile the times of life and work, meeting models that increasingly look at efficiency and results. Applause, therefore, to the changes introduced such as the extension of parental leave also to fathers enrolled in the separate management, and, for both parents, the period of enjoyment extended from three to six months and from the first to the third year of life of the child, as well as the exclusion from the determination of the income from self-employment of reimbursements of housing costs and food related to transfers following a assignment conferred by the client and the extension of the active policies also to the self-employed with the centres for employment that will have to have dedicated desks. Let me, however, give some thought and, however, also some very critical judgment - I stress this - regarding the unwillingness to accept any change and simplification, also logical, on some major measures that could have brought about improvements in the area of simplification without, among other things, introducing greater burdens for the State. Paragraph 1 of Article 19 concerns the health and safety of the worker who carries out the service in agile working arrangements. The employer shall deliver to the worker, at least annually, a written information identifying the general risks and specific risks related to the particular way in which the employment relationship is carried out. I think it is completely unnecessary to present the information every year if there are no changes; it would have been simpler and even more effective if this type of information were to happen when there are changes. In the same way, I am of the opinion that the subject of separate INPS management should be deepened within which very different categories fall (from professionals not registered in a professional register to employees, company administrators). It is necessary to meet a reorganisation of the sector, providing for different forms of separate management. Another amendment proposed, but which, unfortunately, did not have the attention of the Government, is an intervention, pursuant to Article 16 of this provision, which concerns the need to give an authentic interpretation of the rules relating to allowances for work transfers, in particular the forms by which they contribute to the formation of income. We must be careful to create a measure that reduces bureaucracy and does not produce it again; a measure that creates certainty of the law and not that adds other uncertainties. Let me also draw your attention to another aspect which is certainly not covered by this measure, but which must still be considered as an intervention in favour of entrepreneurship and self-employment in a broader sense. I think it is necessary and important to reflect on a revision of the social security system for self-employed persons enrolled in separate management, in view of the fact that the contributions paid for this category are higher than those paid by any other category of workers. I hope that soon the social security contribution between self-employed persons enrolled in separate management and that paid by other categories will be rebalanced, through the elimination of double contributions in the event of double contributions being paid, both for employees and for separate management, and through the non-expensive reunion of the various periods of contributions. It must be said that the draft law under consideration is a positive measure, which produces light. However, where there is light there is also shadow. However, we are convinced that the path taken is the right one and that the reforms - those already undertaken and those foretold - must be supported, approved and implemented. Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, rapporteur, the work in the Commission has been common to all of us; unfortunately, as I have already said, without much will to accept changes. Nevertheless, the Group's vote in favour was announced. For the autonomy, since, while there are critical profiles, the positive prevails in the draft law under consideration. For this reason, ours will be a yes. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Favero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u30	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education (Piaget-Diaz) in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u33	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, from my point of view, the first thing that needs to be said is that the two drafts were not to be merged, because they are two different things. I am talking about self-employment (as we say) and agile work. My group will abstain, but only out of respect for those workers who look forward to some of the measures provided for in the measure, in the absence of which our vote would have been totally against. At the end of the debate, what we knew from the outset is even clearer to us. Here we are not talking about genuine self-employment, but about work contracts with coordinated and continuous services, i.e. co.co.co. In other words, we are talking about subordinate work disguised as self-employment, practically of the jobs act part II series, which many disasters have produced, as we all know. I'll explain why. It is true that co-ordinated and continuous collaboration also constitutes self-employment, because the person can organize himself by his own means, but this is a very different case in practice. In fact, in the actual work contract (i.e. self-employment) the work benefit is unique and this is the real difference with any other form of contract. To obtain another product and service other than the one initially requested, you need to make another contract. The real provider is the one who deals with a wide and differentiated audience, with which he concludes many contracts of work, while the co-ordinated and continuous collaborator, given the greater temporal commitment of this type of relationship, will have few clients clients (often only one or one principal), with the consequence that, in fact, its economic and professional survival will end up dependent on its few clients, who will give ever more binding directives. So, what autonomy are we talking about? You don't understand. If we have to say it in Italian, this is unsubordinate work. That's the danger. The measure in question in fact increases a precariousness without protection which, added to the legislation on jobs act, devastates the world of work. If one were to be attentive to what happens in Italy, there would be no need to say it here, because the cases of Foodora, of the payments in vouchers and of the vouchers (arrived to the figure of 97 million euros) are before everyone's eyes. So that's all we have to say. Among other things, when we talk about workers' rights, we always show the greatest openness, so much so that we voted in favour of the rules of Article 12, in which we talk about some rights. However, I would like to inform the House that when we recognise certain rights but do not practically exist before them, we are creating only one palliative. How is it possible to claim rights if, in fact, they have been cancelled upstream? Common sense people understand this without any explanation (but there is really little common sense here). As far as agile work is concerned, colleagues in the majority, you've been really freaking out and you've done a masterpiece. As I said in yesterday's sitting, and as it emerged during the short debate on the amendments, there will be endless disputes. If we compare it with the previous legislation on agile work, we note that behind the new legislation there is the only objective of removing all constraints on employers and of emptying workers' rights. The rights and dignity of workers have once again been removed. It also takes away all responsibility to the employer for the issue of safety at work. The employer will no longer have any responsibility to the workers: this is clearly written, but also on this you pretend not to understand. As I said, there will be endless disputes and, of course, workers will pay, because they will be weak in comparison with the employer. On this too, however, pretend that you do not understand. Even with regard to workloads, the bill under consideration does not say anything. You are pretending that this issue does not exist and also about the training that will be offered to workers you say practically nothing. Continue to pretend nothing, as if these were not important issues, to be brought to the attention of this House. They will really affect the lives of the workers, but once again pretend nothing. But you have to be careful: in all this, you remove all ties to the employer, but you ask a very important thing. The famous remote control, in fact, will compete - yes - with the employer: this is an absurdity that a sane person, who really cares about the safety of workers, could never think. This principle is maintained, however, in perfect line with the jobs act: we are talking about this. I say this with great difficulty: only out of respect for the workers will we cast a vote of abstention, otherwise our vote would have been totally against, for the reasons I mentioned earlier. Finally, I want to give an answer, since I always respond to those who call for my answer. I am not happy to say that Senator Sacconi is not my President of the Commission. I regret that. They are in fact for the real debate and for freedom of thought and I think that they are good for democracy. I would like to point out, however, that I did not participate in the vote for the election of the President of the Commission for work and social security, because I think that respect should be mutual. That's it, otherwise we're always talking about fried air. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u36	PAGE (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, honourable representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the labour market in Western countries and Italy has been involved for at least thirty years in a profound process of transformation. It is an extremely fast and unstable change, unable to be captured by administrative laws and regulations, which are quickly obsolete when excessively detailed, or substantially ineffective when too generic. The rapidity of the changes taking place has complex demographic, social, political and economic reasons, but it is technological innovation that is identified by international institutions and doctrine as the main factor of change in the labour market, at least in the short term. In this changing context, I am convinced that adequate training of the workers (not only of the new ones) is possible only by overcoming the dogmas of linearity and separation that afflict the Italian school and continuing training. More work is needed during initial training (alternation and apprenticeship) and more quality training during work then (alternative training); in the same way, in order to train the soft skills increasingly required by the knowledge society, it is important to return to believe in the educational and educational value of work and integrate theoretical knowledge and practical knowledge, overcoming the widespread hierarchicalization of the training channels. Convinced interventions in the field of primary, secondary and tertiary education and training, also with a view to increasing the provision of training in high-technology sectors, appear more effective than continuous retraining measures managed by the new National Agency for Active Labour Policies. These are certainly important for the emergency management of redundant and unemployed workers, but they alone do not determine the change of paradigm that the entire Italian training system needs. Faced with such a panorama, one of the main objectives set by the legislator was to build a regulatory framework for simplification and simplification of bureaucracy for companies and workers, and to enhance technological innovation and skills acquired, in order to face a real challenge of employment in a different conception of the labour market. The organizational models of production change, but also the way of conceiving work changes, in this fourth industrial revolution of which no one can predict with certainty the size and the relative step. Our only certainty is that an old world fails, set on vertical hierarchies and on the mere serial execution of the directives given. An old vision on which a labour law has been built, made up of protective rules of the weak contractor, which now often become a brake on employability. Mobility and job change are no longer seen in negative terms, but are often a necessary step towards acquiring new and more skills. It is therefore clear that the employer of the present and of the future can arrive to carry out his work within a project, a mission, a task, a phase of the productive activity. It is in this direction that the jobs act of the self-employed is oriented: a rethinking of the work in a more intelligent way, with a questioning of the traditional constraints linked to places and hours, and a greater responsibility for the results; a measure that, in my opinion, can really stimulate the smart working with a view to the professional growth of the worker and the improvement of competitiveness for the enterprise. The measure supports policies aimed at supporting the needs of multitasking women, who increasingly find themselves having to reconcile multiple roles between home, family, work and care of elderly parents. Subject to agreement between the Parties, forms of work organisation shall be defined for stages, cycles and objectives, without constraints on working time or place of work, with the possible use of technological tools for the performance of work. The job can be performed in part within the company and in part outside, within the limits of maximum duration of the daily working time deriving from the law and collective bargaining. Smart working is therefore not a contractual type, because all contractual types can be carried out in agile ways, but it is well adapted to a horizontal logic, which leaves room for creativity and responsibility. The agility of work performance therefore becomes a concept that exceeds, while remaining functional, the mere need to ensure a better reconciliation between working time and family time. Thanks to this measure, among other things, the liberal professions will be protected in the first place, because the company is prohibited from creating excessive disproportion between rights and obligations, overcoming the abuse of economic dependence of Article 9 of Law No. 192 of 1998. It is also clear that an effective welfare programme must also be organised for professionals, especially young people, to facilitate their entry into the professional world, but also in relation to the further stages of working life involving older colleagues. It is precisely in this direction that we must read the rules contained in the so-called self-employed status: positive actions aimed at supporting parenthood, supporting income and supporting the technological development necessary for the pursuit of professional activity. We have also addressed the issue of parental leave in this measure: the new rules raise the limit of three to six months of economic treatment for parental leave taken by both parents and we have extended the right to such economic treatment with reference to the child's second and third year of life. We have also extended the right to periods of disease certified as a result of treatment of oncology as well as to periods of severe chronic degenerative diseases, which are serious or are causing a temporary incapacity for work of 100 percent in terms of sickness allowances for members of the separate INPS management. Also in terms of welfare for "agile" workers, considering that their performance is more fluid and flexible, and provides for a greater autonomy of the employee compared to their working hours, we have introduced the so-called "right to disconnect" which is a useful tool for the transition to a new concept of work, also evaluate the needs of workers for rest. In fact, it is not merely a prohibition: Article 16 of the measure refers to: "technical and organisational measures necessary to ensure the disconnect" and is therefore a commitment to the search for optimal solutions for the connection to be guaranteed. It is no coincidence that the preparation of concrete responses to the need to disconnect is left, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to the parties closest to the organisation of work, i.e. to the individual agreement. Returning to the topic of training, then (to which I mentioned in the premise), I reiterate the need to prepare a national digital literacy plan through the use of interbranch funds: this is a fundamental ingredient for the work of the future and for agile work. I am going to conclude: we, as legislators, believe that the so-called status of self-employed workers can guarantee a system of protection and welfare that has not been recognized to date by this category of workers. We think that this is the right path to take: it is a path of equity and necessity, in order to promote and not degrade the lively intelligences of our country and to keep up with the continuous changes that society imposes on the labour market. It is for these reasons that the Group of the People's Area will vote in favour of this measure, in the hope that its final approval can be reached as soon as possible. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u39	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, we believe that self-employment must be protected in all its forms, especially when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises. So we must push for the state to create a system that allows the entrepreneur to be able to do business without having unnecessary bureaucratic snares. Not least, the State must identify, through the study of the historical moment, the needs of the small entrepreneur. This measure is divided into two: on the one hand there is what we are saying at the moment, that is, a regulation that operates directly on self-employment, but on the other there is a regulation that does not marry, does not harmonize with the first part that regulates the modalities of the employment relationship. So, actually, they're two completely separate worlds. For us this measure had to be divided, because Article 1 of Article 14 contains rules which, in our opinion, also protect more self-employed non-business work. Therefore, we fully agree that the state must now act because there are always new forms of non-business self-employment that need to be regulated. It is therefore absolutely necessary to provide protection. Of course, I am talking not only about civil protection, but also about social protection. In civil matters, the measure does indeed have something good. In particular, I am referring to the delay in payments which, unfortunately, the self-employed are increasingly suffering. Mr President, as long as we talk about a relationship between individuals, it could also be something on the agenda (although it should not be, it is more understandable because, perhaps, everyone is in crisis). But it is not understandable when public administration delays the payment of professionals: this is unacceptable. And on these forms we absolutely must act. When it comes to speeding up public administration towards businesses, so obviously also with regard to self-employed non-entrepreneurs as in the case at hand, the 5 Star Movement is there. Indeed, we have supported those rules concerning the introduction of more robust rules to penalise even public administrations that delay the payment of this type of worker. Another very interesting point of the measure is the protection in the case of unilateral changes by the contractor. This is important because, very often, this type of self-employed person is not protected when the client also inserts some clauses within the contract that we can actually define as vexatory. However, work must be done, and the self-employed very often accept it anyway. In this case we wanted to include the nullability of that contract that includes some clauses that go to attack the self-employed. I refer in particular to protections in the event of withdrawal without proper prior notice and to unilateral changes to the contract. Another positive point is greater protection for inventive activity. This is a fundamental point. Then there is the simplification part, which is very close to our heart, as I said at the beginning. It is absolutely necessary to simplify, because a state based on bureaucracy is a state that feeds even, unfortunately, the evil: so much bureaucracy, so much bad business; little bureaucracy, little bad business. Sometimes, however, when dealing with simplification, there are also measures that should not be included in a simplification process. I refer to point (b) of Article 5, paragraph 1, where not only was the possibility of creating instruments for the deflation of litigation (to date it could also be acceptable measure) but - and this is the big problem - the establishment of the file of the building. We have now understood - and we are touching him with our hands - that this is a time when we must be, especially on the buildings, very careful and careful. What are we gonna do instead? We operate a simplification and give the professional the opportunity to self-certification the file of the building. On this I raise my hands, because maybe there are so many professionals - indeed, the vast majority - who, when they produce self-certification, are more than precise. But do we realize it's a real force? Another positive measure, always in the field of self-employment, is the exclusion from the impossible of many completely useless expenses, especially when faced by the client precisely by virtue of the given task. Well, after talking about all the fantastic and beautiful things contained in the text, on which we fully agree (in the Commission, we have worked hand in hand), we are now talking about Article 15, where we talk about agile work and, therefore, that part of more flexible work. Be careful because, when it comes to flexibility, you have to start to be afraid. And unfortunately we have to be afraid, because we believe, for how it is set, that the introduction of agile working methods - although I repeat that, more than one mode, in fact, is a new case, but these are opinions - will take away supervisory instruments from inspectors who will have to supervise the employment relationship: is it really carried out in that way or in another way? Is it really a part-time that has to be done from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m., or is it a full-time relationship disguised as part-time? In this way nothing will be known, unless the worker really feels free to denounce the employer. Otherwise, there will be no more control tools. And, therefore, "marameo" to the supervision at work. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u40	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, a delegation of German investors visiting the Senate, accompanied by our former colleague of the 16th legislature, Mr Piccone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u43	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to point out that this measure is the second intervention that moves in the logic of the reform of the world of work. For employee work the Government has proposed the so-called jobs act with the related measures. And they are in the eye of all the limitations of that reform now that the contributory benefits linked to permanent recruitment have ended. The Commission is now proposing a reform of non-business self-employment, while the public sector has just come close to approved measures. Taking care of this reform is necessary in order not to widen the differences of rights between those who have a "fixed place" and those who, in the private sector, every day have to deal with salaries at an average level lower than the public ones and with the risk of not being renewed the contract. The saga of the smart cards, meanwhile, is enriched every day with new episodes, last of the series that of the Municipality of Sulmona. And this episode leads me to make two reflections. First of all, the punitive measures, even momentary ones, need even more concrete rules in this respect. The second reflection is that the absence of public workers from the workplace shows - in my opinion - the presence of organic plants that are still too large and, therefore, the need for further simplification of relations between citizens, businesses and public administration, which will make it possible to streamline the workforce. Having said that, the Government's bill fits into that general reform of the world of work that we said before. We believe that self-employment must have its own forms which cannot be treated as employees. Moreover, it cannot be pretended that in the last thirty years the world of work has not changed globally and that this also does not condition the models to be adopted in our country. Therefore, a framework of rules and provisions must certainly be drawn up to provide concrete answers to this vast productive world represented by self-employed workers. There remains, however, a clear disparity, difficult to bridge, between employees and self-employed, with respect to incomes and rights: the right to become ill, to support the care of their families and the continuous coverage of periods of contribution for social security purposes. The hope is that the appropriate delegation introduced by the Commission will take into account all the points made and the issues raised during the debate. We, aware of the problems faced by the self-employed every day, had proposed a series of amendments aimed at reducing this gap. With regard to maternity protection, the proposed legislative amendment (six months compared to the previous three) must be welcomed, although unfortunately in other categories of work there will continue to be mothers with more rights and parental leave treatment than the rights of self-employed women covered by the draft law currently under discussion. There is also the possibility to deduct the training costs for IRPEF purposes, which suggests an idea of workers in continuous specialization and, therefore, suggests provisions suitable for younger people, for young people starting a career, but certainly useful also for people who decide to change their work. Then there is the chapter of the so-called agile work, also called smart working. Several cases of application of this form of flexibility have already occurred in the current regulatory framework, either on the basis of company initiatives with individual workers or in collective form through specific trade union agreements. Moreover, a first reference has already been introduced with Article 2 of the interministerial decree 25 March 2016 on the detaxation of premiums where, incidentally, it is clarified that, by agile work, it must be understood a flexible mode of execution of the subordinate employment relationship. Thus, on the basis of the experiences of collective bargaining, it can be said that smart working is not a new type of contract, but a different way of carrying out the normal performance, without imposing a specific place of work. Agile work also differs from teleworking; in the latter case, in fact, the employer is obliged to make available to the employee a fixed work station where he will be required to carry out the assigned activity. The flexible way in which the service is carried out will enable, on the one hand, to respond to the needs of workers to better combine living and working times and, on the other hand, to firms to reduce fixed structures and costs. Smart working is precisely an opportunity to save for companies: in addition to the facilities provided for in the matter of detaxation, with this method of performance you can in fact exclude allowances related to trips and missions, as it is not assumed the physical presence at the place of work, and referring to the temporary removal from it. Two issues remain open, however, which could lead to uncertainty in the current regulatory framework: overtime and possible accidents on the road; the latter, which the text intended to regulate for the first time. Important is the introduction of the right to disconnect, in order to avoid the risk of the worker becoming a slave to the permanent connection. Several large German and French companies have already reached agreements to avoid the phenomenon of the so-called "always on and beyond" is being discussed to include the right to disconnect in the order. The theme is therefore as topical as it is delicate and cannot be left to improvisation. Today this mode of work has a growing interest in companies: 17 percent of the large Italian companies started in 2015 organic smart working projects (8 percent in 2014), introducing in a structured way new digital tools, organizational policies, managerial behaviors and new physical layouts of the spaces. Added to this is 14% of large companies that claim to be willing to start projects and an additional 17% that has launched initiatives for particular profiles, roles or staff needs. Almost one large company in two is going in a structured or informal way towards the new approach to the organization of work; there are many companies that in Italy already have smart working projects in progress. Surely this measure takes a path in step with the times. It should be noted, however, that a reform of non-business self-employment would require further forms of investment by the State. On the contrary, the draft law under consideration puts in place very few economic resources, among other things diverting them from funds and expenditure chapters already dedicated to the world of work. On the other hand, additional funding was needed, precisely because new models of work can work if, alongside them and the lower burdens on companies, the State will support more effective forms of social protection and amortization of workers. Our idea, however, is to believe that the true reform of private work must be done first and foremost by addressing the issue of taxation on those who work, starting from the level of the rates, in order to move to the model of tax deductions and deductions from the impossibile IRPEF. Today in Italy the employee enjoys tax deductions from work much larger than those of which a self-employed worker can benefit, because he still considers himself a potential evader. This type of logic must be reversed, enabling the self-employed to enjoy a higher tax deduction than that provided for the employee, so as to allow him to pay taxes only on the part that is not actually necessary for his or her livelihood. The Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the bill because, even if this measure does not satisfy us in full, it is, of course, a first important step towards the recognition of this category of self-employed workers. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u46	Parent (PD). Mr President, today in this House we shall be voting on a measure which respects the commitment of this Government and the majority, but I would also say the opposition forces, and the many debates held in these parliamentary classrooms (in view of the interventions of the opposition), which is to take care of the many workers and self-employed in our country. The same bill deals with the theme of agile work and how work must change according to changes in technology with the aim of reconciling living and working times with productivity: everything in the same measure, in order to make our country modern and efficient, with more rights and a welfare able to support the future of the next generations and our businesses. In this parliamentary term - as has been said in many speeches - we have brought home a reform of work, a systematic reform, and with this measure we add another piece. I would remind you that when the delegation to work arrived in Parliament on 9 April 2014, the jobs act, one of the commitments we made was to draw a line between subordinate work and self-employed work. With the implementing decree of the delegation law n. 81 of 2015 it has been clarified that every working relationship, even if of a parasubordained and autonomous nature, that results in exclusively personal, continuous performances and the modalities of which are organized by the client also with reference to the times and places of work, must be traced back to the discipline of the subordinate job. Today we are here to respect a double promise: on the one hand, we are about to approve the second leg of the jobs act, that is, greater protection for self-employed workers and self-employed workers and, on the other hand, also in this measure, it clearly defines self-employment as work mainly of its own and without constraint of subordination to the client. This border - as the Undersecretary recalled yesterday - was one of the foundations of labour reform, contained therefore both in the jobs act and in the jobs act of self-employment, in order to expose abuses and false VAT matches. Senator Barozzino, how many times have we talked in this House about fake VAT matches and the need to set a boundary with self-employment and employees? How many times has public opinion questioned these issues? Well, we faced them and we found a solution. It is also a question of increasing the rights of self-employed workers who are not entrepreneurs, also because Italy - according to data of Censis - is the European country with the highest number of young self-employed: 941,000 in the class between twenty and thirty-four years old. We are the first in Europe. So the challenge we are facing today is to provide protection, assistance and support to those workers and workers. My Group's speeches have been very timely, which have reminded us of the main safeguards. I refer only to a few of them: the theme of training is addressed with the strengthening of the deductions of the costs of participating in conferences, congresses or vocational refresher courses, establishing that training is the heart of this type of work. The protection - as many of us have mentioned - of payment times also applies to commercial transactions between self-employed workers and public administrators; it is very important and long awaited that the Commission has completed its work. The issues of unfair terms, maternity and parental leave are discussed. Both mothers and dads will be able to take parental leave within the total limit of six months during the life of the child's three-year-old. You will have the opportunity to receive the maternity allowance while continuing to work and, in case of illness or accident, the payment of social security contributions and insurance premiums for these workers is suspended for the entire duration of the illness or accident. Freelancers will be able to join networks, consortia or associated forms of access to invitations to tender. The employment centres and the bodies authorized for the mediation activities will have to equip themselves - as many have remembered - with a window dedicated to self-employment. It also attaches an important role to the nascent Agency for Work, the Anpa, a true revolution in our country. I personally agree with Senator Divine and believe that, in these dramatic days that we are living, the government's provision must contain safeguards also for these types of self-employed in the affected areas - alas - from the earthquake. As far as agile work is concerned, the second head of this measure provides a framework, as the rapporteur said in his report during his reply. Agile work is defined as the way in which the employment relationship is carried out. The exponent of Forza Italia who preceded me reminded me of the hundreds and hundreds of agreements that already exist on this topic between companies and unions. I invite those who criticize this issue to come out of these rooms and understand where reality lies, what happens, how many agreements there are already on agile work, because the world goes on. It must be made clear that we are introducing not a new type of contract, but a way of carrying out the work established by agreement between the parties, also with forms of organisation for phases, cycles and objectives and without constraints of time and place of work. How many discussions we have had in the Commission on this subject. Italy's competitive capacity will in fact pass through process innovation and this is very important. Let's go beyond the rhetoric of the fixed place on either side. We will have companies organized for processes, for results and only therefore important different ways of working. With this bill agile work is encouraged. There is another legislative provision contained in last year's Stability Act and which this year the Government will strengthen: this is the rule contained in the circular that implements support for corporate welfare. Agile work is already mentioned in that provision as a factor in the ability to measure productivity. This is a very important point, just as I said earlier. We are talking about industry 4.0, and there will also be sustained measures in this year's budget law on this and, therefore, we are dealing with existing realities. In the area of health and safety, yesterday has already been discussed. It is clear that, as a form of employed employment, the same protection as employed work must be applied. And this is a very sensitive issue, because we are talking about workers who leave the workplace and can also work in different places, so much so that many agreements between the parties talk about suitable places. The health and safety of workers and workers - a very sensitive issue and I am impressed when it is represented as a bureaucracy - I believe it is also a value for companies, which care about the safety of their employees and I do not want to think that it is not so. It's a national value. In the Commission we study the many accidents at work. Health and safety are a social value and it is clear that even with the jobs act we have simplified some regulations. But simplifying is one thing, another is to deal with very delicately the issue that concerns the lives of our workers and our companies. That is why the Government's text, as it has presented itself to Parliament, strikes a balance, which the Commission has confirmed in the text's proposal for the Assembly. I shall conclude by saying that there has been a debate on social security. The government announced yesterday that the text of the budget law is in the House of Deputies. We shall examine it at second reading. He announced important measures. The social security issue, much awaited by workers and workers, had to be dealt with in the budget law because adequate resources are needed. Undersecretary Nannicini announced a 25% rate for non-orderist VAT consignments. We are at the third law of stability with which we are trying to reduce this rate and we are very happy to reach 25%, because the measure is expected by those who are in these conditions. Yesterday the Government approved an agenda that I presented for the overall review of the social security system and the entire self-employment sector that also addresses the issue of separate management, which Senator Berger very appropriately recalled. For these reasons, my Group will vote in favour because the measure is right for people who have been waiting for protection for years, from maternity to illness, from help in the search for work. It is an appropriate measure for human progress. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Panizza and Sacconi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u47	We greet a delegation from the Comparative Public Law Course at the University of Perugia, which is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u48	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2233, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The draft law No 2229 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u49	I would remind my colleagues that the agenda for the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 8 November, beginning at 11 a.m., provides for the handling of motions on women's cancers and the renewal of police contracts. At the afternoon sitting at 4.30 p.m., the President will make announcements on the timetable. The Conference of Leaders will be convened at 3 p.m. on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u52	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask you to reverse the agenda in order to bring forward the debate on the draft law on protected areas, moving the debate on the motions on water infrastructure to the first useful moment. The proposal comes from the Commission, the territory, the environment and environmental goods, from President Marinello, and I think it also has the agreement of the majority of the groups. In any case, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u53	As the request is made by the prescribed number of senators, I would remind you that no more than one speaker may speak against and one against and for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u56	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Groups have indeed been consulted, but the Forza Italia Group - for example - has expressed its opposition to this proposal, because an agenda has been established and there is no particular reason to change it. The motions on water infrastructure are important and, not surprisingly, they were due to be discussed this morning. They have been presented by various groups and, although water infrastructure irrigation may not be seen in the center of the cities, the reflections can be seen, because without an adequate water system agriculture is in difficulty. The second reason for our opposition concerns the fact that the first presenter of the first draft law on protected areas is Senator D'Alì, who is not present today. I can see that the item was on the agenda, but it was clear, from the dynamic, that at most the report alone would be carried out while the debate would take place later. We are therefore opposed to the request made, to which we have already said no in the consultation of the groups within the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u58	Senator Martelli, is your intervention in favor of the proposal? MARTELLI (M5S). No, ma'am, we're against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So, Senator Malan has already intervened. MARTELLI (M5S). Anyway, we're against it!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u61	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am in the strange condition of having to make Sophie's choice. In fact, as President of the Environment Commission, I stress that the Commission has worked for a long time - and I think fruitfully - to arrive at a text which is widely shared. In this regard, I would like to remind this House that it had expressed itself on this issue because - if I remember correctly - already in 2013, at the request of a Member of the Forza Italia Group, the urgency of the measure had been declared and even it was feared that the measure itself might arrive in this Chamber by skip the passage to the Commission. On the other hand, I am in a position to be the first signatory of the motion on the adaptation of water infrastructure, which is a fundamental issue because we are not only talking about water infrastructure but about land-use planning and, at a time when the country is very attentive to these problems, the justification of the arguments of these motions is certainly not to be underestimated. However, although the first signatory of a motion, as President of the Environment Commission, I would ask for a vote in favour of this House, also because the House itself had already spoken on this point. I then take advantage of this opportunity to ask the group leaders to refrain from putting the motion on the adaptation of water infrastructure in line and to ensure that at the first useful session this point can be dealt with, with the completeness and deepening that the seriousness of the point itself deserves.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u62	Since there is no unanimity on the proposal put forward, we must proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u65	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, the Group's willingness to do so was probably misunderstood, which is why, since there is no unanimity, I withdraw my proposal. It had been put forward to meet a possible unanimous request. If, however, unanimity is lacking, we shall proceed with the scheduled agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u66	At this point, let us proceed with the discussion of the agenda already established.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u67	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00406 (text 2), tabled by Senator Marinello and other senators, 1-00665, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators, and 1-00666, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators, on the adaptation of water infrastructure. I call Senator Marinello to explain motion 406 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u68	Mr President, I am speaking very briefly. The motion in question deals not only with the adaptation of water infrastructure, but, more fully, with the reclamation consortia of our country. This is a fundamental theme, which concerns and affects not only the water schemes (so the interests of the agricultural sector, but also of primary importance in our country), but, more generally, the correct and exact management of the territory. This - I repeat - is a fundamental theme, which has importance and value especially in a country with such a fragile territory as Italy. I remember, in fact, that Italy is characterized by mountains and hills, where all the disruptions and troubles that have occurred over the decades in the management of the mountains in the end have created a series of consequences that very often the inhabitants of the cities perceive as calamitous events, while they are events in part predictable and in part absolutely to be able to prevent. The motion before me takes care of a particular aspect, which comes from a very questionable measure in my view. I refer to Decree-Law No 51 of 5 May 2015, which led to the abolition of the former Agensud's administration, in a framework of rationalization of the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policies. I would like to ask my colleagues and, above all, the Government to pay attention to this point. Things didn't exactly go that way. The truth is that the Ministry, in its own bureaucratic apparatus and - alas - also in the political leadership, intended to change the summit of the commissioner's management, so much so that it had proposed a previous act of suspension and replacement of the commissioner, except then to prove that this act was unfounded and absolutely illegitimate. At that time, we preferred to throw out not only the water, but also the child and so we arrived at the suppression of the police administration. The consequences were those of the alleged and alleged savings, which in fact did not happen. An agile, slim and absolutely effective and efficient management has been abolished, as demonstrated not only by the demands of the reclamation consortia and the regions concerned, but also by the management results achieved in terms of spending capacity and effectiveness and efficiency of the expenditure and recovery of the litigation. This was acclaimed by prestigious awards, not least an article appeared in the daily newspaper "Il Sole 24 ORE" which reported on an entire page the management of former Agensud as a positive example for the whole public administration. This has led to the abolition of Commissioner's management, without providing a regulatory framework for reference and bringing all skills and governance within the Ministry itself. What were the consequences? The block of expenditure, inefficiencies not to end and an increase in litigation (the claims for damages amount to more than 100 million euros). It's not about saving money. It has also come to abolish lines of intervention that were absolutely positive and that produced effects of protection and promotion of the PDO and the Italian brand in general. The legislative measure has therefore certainly been incomplete. The motion under consideration is therefore aimed not only at restoring the facts and the truth, but - above all - at giving direction to the Government in order to put the reclamation consortia and the Regions in a position to interact positively with the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy and arrive at an effective and efficient expenditure that produces results in a sector that, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, is absolutely fundamental and of primary importance, not only for the interests of the agricultural sector, but also for the management and planning of the territory. [[Applause from Senator Dalla Tor]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u69	I call Senator Cioffi to explain motion 665.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u70	Mr President, the issue of reclamation consortia is an interesting one, because it allows us to talk about the system and the management of water in our country. Consortia have existed for many years and have given evidence of themselves, I dare say not too bright, since they have very specific and important functions which, at times, have not been carried out as it should have been. When we talk about the infrastructural part, cited by Senator Marinello, we have to make distinctions. In this connection - for example - of the Commissioner ad acta for the management of the former Agensud, who was born after the dissolution of the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno, it seems to me that we are talking about something very ancient. In fact, I do not think it appropriate that in 2016 a Commissioner at Acta still manages the continuation and the funds of the former Cassa del Mezzogiorno. I believe, however, that we must return to an ordinary beehive, and I say so from the south and I am not afraid to do so. On the other hand, we have to say that there is a real infrastructure deficit: when we talk about water, we have to talk about the integrated water system. When we talk about these issues, let us remember that an old Community standard, Directive 271 of 1991, stipulated that all water disposal systems, and therefore sewage and sewage treatment plants, should have been completed throughout the European Union by the year 2000. We are in 2016 and we have 136 EU infringement procedures. We can, therefore, say that a management at least sensible and not careful has produced rather serious damage. Consortia have very important functions because, in addition to guaranteeing the irrigation part, they also have to ensure reclamation and, in order to do so, work on very large extensions. The problem is an incredible overlap of skills. From a general state system we have moved to a totally regional system and on the watercourses, which are also found in the plains, in addition to the consortia, also intervenes the Agency for the State property, the Civil Genio, the Consortium of reclamation, the Authority of basin and those who have more, more put them. There is therefore a great overlap of competences and it is not conceivable that this is the case in the country. Moreover, the various regional legislation - the consortia are a regional competence - is rather different from one another. We are, therefore, in a particular condition, which should perhaps be restored. It is also necessary to check the number of workers, because consortia, together with mountain communities, are the last bodies that still have hydraulic workers who intervene on the ordinary and extraordinary maintenance of artificial watercourses. The civil genius should intervene on the natural watercourses, but never intervenes. Perhaps we should think of a re-functionalization of consortia, because if we do not let them do what they have to do, their existence no longer makes any sense. We must therefore find, if possible, a new way for consortia. Different is the case of the works of the former Agensud, in which many strange things have been done and lots of waste. I quote one for everyone: the dams of Campolattaro, in the province of Benevento, born with an irrigation function, and which are in the availability of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, have been stopped for twenty years. It is a system, therefore, managed really badly and perhaps it would be appropriate to put in place a management - especially for the part concerning floods in the plains, in which the consortia intervene - effective and efficient, otherwise the so-called Galli law, of old date, no longer serves anything. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u71	I call Senator Uras to explain motion No 666.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u72	Mr President, this issue deserves a debate in a full and very careful Chamber, because we are talking about one of the essential elements for life: water and how we are able to manage it. Our motion has as its objective to ask for a truly extraordinary commitment from the Government in order to start a complete monitoring of the necessary works to the water infrastructure network, signaling, in particular, the works started and not completed, so as to have a precise census of what has begun and which unfortunately has not yet been completed. We need to act through very close institutional coordination with the regions and local authorities. Our motion commits the Government to giving priority to the realization of the interventions of completion of the works already begun, otherwise we speak of the financial resources used and wasted; the commitment, therefore, is to guarantee the full use of the financial resources. It is well known that, through an increase in the budget available for the 2014-2020 programming, there are now at least EUR 800 million available for immediate actions in favour of the management of the national irrigation plan and therefore for actions that must be directed, as I said earlier, mainly to actions to complement the network. We commit the Government to give priority, in this expenditure, to the interventions that concern the Mezzogiorno of Italy and the islands, where there is greater suffering, especially because of droughts, which significantly damage their agricultural production capacity; to integrate, among the central criteria of the interventions, the implementation of water saving; to proceed to a reorganization of the system of reclamation consortia, which in some cases are not a good example of administration and instead become a place of difficult management of a common good of absolute importance such as water and, above all, the water to be used for agricultural purposes. We must be very careful about the virtuous combination of the multisectoral with the hydropotable. It is not conceivable that we still have in many cities the aqueduct networks full of holes, which continue to waste an impressive amount of water resources, in this proceeding also to damage the organization of the territory. The events of these days - but in general the events that accompany us, unfortunately, in every autumn and spring, when the so-called water bombs arrive, phenomena so devastating that they are the result of the mutation of the global climate system and of the change of the climate - call us to a careful management of this resource, also in defense of the territory, for the protection and defense of the soil; that is, to call us to a punctual planning of the river basins, so that it is possible, Mr President (and finish), to manage adequately this good, to help save the planet, to contribute to the civil development of our populations and to contribute to the economic rebirth of the country. Water is also an essential asset in this perspective. These are the objectives of our motion, which we put to the attention of the Government. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u75	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, before the start of the debate, I propose a suspensive issue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, can you give us a date for suspension? Are they supposed to be two weeks? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr President, because the arguments we are debating have not been objectively understood. Before we proceed to the vote, I would also ask for the quorum to be checked.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u78	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I am sorry to speak, but Mr Candiani's proposal seems quite incomprehensible to me. It seems to me that the subject in question, as President Marinello mentioned a moment ago, is important and the colleagues who preceded me, presenting the motions have emphasized that it is particularly topical in relation to the conditions in which the system of our country is placed. I therefore believe that today's morning must be valued by completing the work begun and I hope that Mr Candiani will be able to return to his decision, partly because I would like him to explain, to the citizens outside this House, the reason for moving such a debate; honestly, it would be nothing more than to waste Parliament's time. And it seems to me that what is happening in these days, even with respect to the terrible events of the earthquake, forces us all to an additional responsibility. I really do not think this is the time for this House's games, and I do not think it is really acceptable that just to check if there is a lack of quorum, you should take advantage of the fact that perhaps some colleagues have left the Chamber momentarily to play with our institutions. I really hope - and I repeat - not only with regard to this vote, but also with regard to the work ahead of us in the coming weeks, that at a time when the Italian citizens are paying particular attention to what Parliament will want and will be able to do, and given the current, real national emergency, it will not be decided to deflect from our responsibilities and, instead, let us all work together to the best. I therefore ask Mr Candiani to return to his decision and withdraw his proposal for a suspensive matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u79	Senator Candiani, do you insist on the request for a vote on the suspensive matter? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the suspension of the matter. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for verification of the quorum is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 406 (text 2), 665 and 666 president. I put to the vote the suspensive question raised by Senator Candiani. It's not approved. He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject proposed by the motions for our examination is of great importance for the modernisation of irrigation networks, particularly in the South of our country, and for the simultaneous attention required in the use of the water resource. In this context, there are many critical aspects and the motions have the merit of identifying some of them: the ageing of the structures, the lack of restructuring and modernization, the incompleteness of many water schemes, the increasingly evident economic, financial and operational difficulties of the majority of the reclamation consortia, the actuators of possible investments. Very extensive and crucial subjects, but I do not dwell on them. On the other hand, I wish to stress the need for the integration of motions with certain elements that I believe to be equally fundamental and that are summed up in the need to implement in a repeated way efficiency actions in the country's infrastructure initiatives, through the adoption of an indispensable system perspective. 11:45 a.m. (Small follow-up). The first point is this. The modernisation needs in part linked to climate change that the same motions show must see a contextual action of efficiency: efficiency in the use of water resources that allows the indispensable optimization of the volume used-watered surface quotient through the adoption of advanced technologies, both through actions on hardware (dimensions and distribution) and for the software part (management methods supported by smart technologies); energy efficiency in particular for networks characterized by mechanical raising of water and, therefore, by high energy consumption. The two previous topics should be a standard, both for ongoing projects and for future implementation, becoming a real added value, also in relation to the commitments that our country made last year in Paris, it is assuming within the framework of the European energy package and it is about to take on the circular economic package. With regard to the fulfilment of the objectives imposed by the above commitments, it is necessary to ask for the utmost attention from the programming and from the actuator of the interventions, in logic transversal to all the technological fields involved. Then there is another element. With regard to the delegated water balance, water collection from the watercourse, accumulation in invaded volumes and subsequent delivery to the sampling points after measurement, it is considered necessary to involve the river districts, to which sector-specific legislation requires specific tasks on the balance of the budget. At the same time, it is considered necessary a specific commitment linked to the reconnaissance of the volumes available in the reservoirs of accumulation of the dams, also in relation to the actual use of the same, both for reasons of progressive burial, and for reasons related to possible limits of invading the exercise of the structures. In conclusion, with regard to the mini-hydroelectric programme, which a motion in particular mentions and which is fully shared as an energy recovery action otherwise dissipated, it is considered necessary the Government's commitment to a strong and clear action for production on all networks, whether under pressure or not, existing or planned. And it is expected the approval of dedicated and simplified administrative paths of understanding with the Regions, with the objective of achieving the economic sustainability of this type of application with zero impact, also through specific incentives. Finally, there is a need for motions to gradually extend their attention and commitment to the whole of the country, also given that climate change affects the whole of the peninsula. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u81	Madam President, I would like to thank the Members who have presented these motions, who are very topical and who have raised a number of issues concerning the efficiency of structures and the best use of water resources. The Government adopts all the considerations laid down at the foundation of the interventions. There is no doubt that today, in the new common agricultural policy, interventions on irrigation infrastructure and the use of water resources are absolutely priority. The Government, in implementing the common agricultural policy, has also made a political choice: among the national measures that could be activated but wanted to include some in support of irrigation infrastructure. Therefore, we share all the considerations that have been made, it can be said that on the issue of the efficiency of irrigation structures, energy efficiency and the profitable use of water resources the attention of the Government is very high. For this reason, remaining to the theme of efficiency, last year, with a decree-law then converted into law, the Government wanted to commissary the structure of the former Agensud. Everyone stressed the great work that has been done during the administration of the former Agensud and we have no reason to say different things, but the extraordinary commissionership lasted well over twelve years. It was no longer a commissioner's management, but a management that had to be normalized and that today is part of the full activities of the Government and, in the administrative structure of the infrastructure management. Therefore, the Government wanted to give an even stronger and more incisive character to this work and, above all, it wanted to affect the efficiency of our structures. A national measure has also been identified in the national rural development programme: in addition to the resources made available by the regions, there is a national measure for intervention on irrigation infrastructure. This is a positive combination: on the issue of irrigation infrastructure, we are now intervening, as well as with the measure contained in the national rural development plan, with additional resources from the Development and Cohesion Fund, also to give a greater balance on the national territory. Therefore, national interventions are added, for the southern regions, to those of the Development and Cohesion Fund (you know that 80% of this Fund is used by the Southern regions and 20% by the Northern regions of the country). Between the measures of the national RDP and the measures identified in the Development and Cohesion Fund there is a substantial intervention of about EUR 650 million. These are significant resources. The theme that has been raised from several quarters, appreciating all the interventions that have been made, is that of the centrality of the efficiency of the structures: it is a theme that the Government has made its own. We also share the theme raised by Senator Piccoli. So, in addition to what is highlighted in the Marinello motion in a fairly complete framework, there are also considerations made by Senators Cioffi and Uras. The theme of energy efficiency has been introduced and, above all, the realization of that circular economy, on which Senator Piccoli has made some considerations that the Government makes its own. We can incorporate these proposals to further strengthen the measures provided for by Senator Marinello. Therefore, with respect to the efficiency with which the optimization of water resources is allowed, we are also talking about the program of interventions in the field of mini-hydroelectric: as far as we are concerned we fully support the two initiatives that Senator Piccoli wants to insert support to the motion of Senator Marinello. As far as the Marinello motion is concerned, I am in favour of some rewordings. At the beginning of the paragraph, where the considerations are expressed, it is considered that: the last national irrigation programme (...) is requested to insert, before the words "the last national programme" the following words: "with reference to the southern regions, "." Also in the following paragraph, I propose to insert, before the words "the state of operational criticality (...)" the following words: "with reference to the southern regions, "." Finally, I would like to reword the following paragraph which begins with the words "in this context": the rewording is as follows: In this context, the growing demand from the Southern Consortiums for assistance and technical support is well understood, to which the relevant regions should give a timely response, possibly also using the technical assistance provided under the Rural Development Programmes. To the paragraph beginning with the words: In order to mitigate the problems highlighted above, it is proposed to replace the word: "the Commissioner" with the following: "the former Commissioner." While appreciating the activity carried out, I would also ask Senator Marinello to proceed to expungere, because it refers to litigations, the three leaders who start with the words: "among the activities of the technical structure", "in addition to such litigation" and "in order to deal with these critical issues", because we are proceeding to check the litigation on time. I am in favour of the paragraph beginning with the words: Finally, it was considered that Decree-Law No 51 of 5 May 2015, which is the text of which we were talking about, gives more efficiency and above all brings back to the administration the activity of the former Commissioner for the Agency for the promotion of the development of the Mezzogiorno. I give a favourable opinion, subject to rewording, on the paragraph beginning with the words: "This deletion gives cause for concern." The text should be reworded as follows: "despite this deletion, the allocation of funding for operations in the regions of the Mezzogiorno remains firm, in accordance with the Decree-Law.' I give a favourable opinion, subject to rewording, on the first commitment of the mechanism that would act as follows: "It commits the Government to strengthen actions and interventions for the full implementation of the ongoing programmes concerning the irrigation infrastructure of the South and the hydroelectric plants financed, through the adoption of any appropriate initiative aimed at safeguarding the activities properly carried out before the technical structure of the Commission and then the competent departments of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry policies, in order to ensure the continuity and the completion of the initiatives put in place. I give a favourable opinion on paragraphs 1.a), 1.b), 1.c) which relate respectively to the recovery of financial economies, the selection of infrastructure works and the evaluation of investment projects; favourable opinion adding the words: "compatible with the financial resources available" also on point 1.d), aimed at ensuring support activities on specific aspects of particular technical complexity. I would like to express a favourable opinion, with the inclusion of the words: 'compatible with regional competences in this area', on point 2, aimed at launching serious reflection and subsequent final discussion on the system of reclamation consortia. The opinion is in favour of points 2.a), which seek to ensure full assurance, and 2.b), after the insertion of the diction in accordance with regional competences in this field after the word "proceeding" is inserted. The opinion was also in favour of point 2.c), with the addition of the reference to the regional competences mentioned above. As regards motion No 665, at the first signature of Senator Cioffi, as regards the part of the provisions, I give a favourable opinion on point 1, with the following diction:
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u82	Excuse me, undersecretary, what's point 1? Mr Castiglione, State Secretary for Food and Forestry Agricultural Policies. That's what he says: To take appropriate steps to ensure that the implementing bodies have the minimum conditions to ensure the best possible implementation of the necessary infrastructure for water and irrigation operations. On this point, the opinion is favourable within the limits of State competences. I am in favour of point 2, if the first part of the text is amended as follows: The opinion is in favour of point 3 which, while respecting regional competences, would provide general guidance in order to make regional legislation more homogeneous. The opinion is in favour of point 4, provided that it is stated: "as far as competence is concerned and in compliance with the division of competences between the State and the Regions, in order to provide for a reordering of legislation (...)" With regard to motion 666, at the first signature of Senator Campanella and for the part of the premises that begins with the words: In turn, agricultural production, particularly in southern Italy, depends mainly on the availability of water for the continuation of activities, the data on groundwater withdrawals are not correct. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So, since you do not believe that the data provided are correct, your opinion is against it? Mr Castiglione, State Secretary for Food and Forestry Agricultural Policies. Yes, Madam President, my opinion is against the rest of that premise. I give a favourable opinion on point 1) of the device, which commits the Government to start a full monitoring of the works necessary for the water infrastructure network (...). I am against point 2 of the proposal to give immediate priority to the implementation of works which have already begun. We cannot do that, because the priority criteria are already identified in the national programme, which in turn is approved by the European Commission. I give a favourable opinion on point 3 of the mechanism, which commits the Government to guarantee, for the shipbuilding of the interventions, the immediate use of the resources I am opposed to point 4 of the proposal, because droughts affect all territories and not only the regions of the South. I give a favourable opinion on point 5 of the device, which commits the Government to integrate the implementation of water saving among the central criteria of the interventions. I am in favour of point 6 of the proposal, adding the words 'in respect of regional competences'. I give a favourable opinion on point 7 of the proposal which calls on the Government to undertake to assess the possibility of drawing up, in agreement with the Regions, a plan for the implementation of small invaders managed by consortia of farmers. I thank the senators for the work that has been done. Finally, I welcome the fact that the first-signed motion by Senator Marinello is integrated with the considerations made by Senator Piccoli, in which it is stressed, among other things, that the needs of modernization partly related to climate change, which the same motion highlights, must see a contextual and decisive action of efficiency: efficiency in the use of water resources, and it is asked that the involvement of the river districts be provided in a compulsory way, with regard to the water balance linked to the withdrawal of the watercourse, the accumulation in volumes of invading and the subsequent delivery of the involvement of the river districts.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u83	I do not know whether the motion-makers have already had the texts of the reformulation proposals. Senator Marinello, do you accept the reformulations proposed by the government representative?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u84	Yes, Madam President, I welcome the proposals for reformulation. I understand the Government's motivations for setting out certain points (obviously the truth hurts), but there will be other locations to assert it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u85	As far as Senator Piccoli's indications are concerned, since these are considerations that supplement the text of the motion, you should let the Presidency know how the text would be incorporated. Senator Cioffi, can you comment on the proposed reformulations?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u86	Yes, Madam President. Basically, the reformulation proposals might also be fine. As usual, we might have expected a little more, but it can go.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u87	I would ask the presenters of motion 666 if they accept the rewordings proposed by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u88	Madam President, in the meantime, I would like to point out to Mr Castiglione that the figures contained in our motion are absolutely official and perhaps it is good that the Secretary should check them; then we can also have a debate on statistical data. We can also expunge this part of the premise, but it is good that the Undersecretary documents because these data are also from the Ministry's website. As far as the second point is concerned, I have not quite understood why the opposite opinion has been expressed, given that one thing that would be normal in a normal country, namely that priority must be given to the realization of the works already begun. It seemed like a common sense thing to me. However, if this is a big problem we also accept the proposals for reformulation; honestly, however, in all sincerity, it seems a bit incredible that we can say that the works that have already been started must not be carried out.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u89	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u92	PERRONE (CoR). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's motions represent an opportunity to discuss the long-standing problem of the inadequacy of irrigation infrastructure in our country. In this context, the critical elements that we must consider are: on the one hand, the protection of water, as the natural good and universal right of the human being; on the other hand, the use of water as a necessary and indispensable resource to guarantee the existence of every living being, first and foremost for mankind. With regard to the first point, it is clear that water is an endless commodity, so we must ensure that future generations are available and avoid altering existing ecosystems. As far as the second point is concerned, however, it is necessary to find ways in which modern man should not give up the life to which the global economy has accustomed us. Modern technological development now allows us to adopt a model of sustainable development applied to the agricultural system, without altering the environment and compromising natural habitats. Nevertheless, we are dealing with an emerging situation. Some data will explain better what I am referring to: in 1999, therefore only seventeen years ago, in the South of the country the amount of water dispersed was 58.9%. At the same time the Puglia Region, for example, came to disperse half of the water conducted. Added to this context is the effect of climatic events (drought, floods, torrential rains) that have compromised the national agricultural production system, especially in the territories of the South. The Cassa del Mezzogiorno, which had the task of creating the necessary infrastructure works, failed to fulfil its task. In the same way, the current reclamation consortia, which should prepare the designs and carry out the works, have failed to meet the tasks assigned to them. The consequence is that we have to manage a series of work that has begun and not finished. This means that technological progress alone cannot replace political choices, which should strategically coordinate complex interventions on the ground. If we consider that the agricultural use of water is the main form of consumption of world water resources and involves two thirds of the world's availability of fresh water, it is clear that the need to intervene has become improcrastinable. As regards the reduction of consumption, the reuse of purified waste water is one of the most important factors of intervention. If the quality of the recovered water is properly managed, the treated waste water can provide an effective alternative to meet the water demand of agriculture, especially when drought or water scarcity occur. The advantage of re-use lies, in fact, in the possibility of providing alternative water supply, valid at least for uses that do not require high quality water, which can reduce the consumption of groundwater. Suffice it to say that in 2000 due to drought the only Apulian agriculture suffered damage for 836 million euros. We need to make up for lost time. It is therefore desirable that the Government, in agreement with the Regions and the Municipalities, put in place a national plan to get out of the emergency, mainly by strengthening the financial resources and unlocking those that have already been destined to these interventions, as well as ensuring that the financed projects are carried out in certain times. Only in this way will it be possible to attract the investments of private individuals, even foreigners. For the reasons set out above, I am voting in favour of the CoR Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u95	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, the three motions take note of the climate change which leads to the constant increase in the global average temperature of the planet, which was dealt with by COP21 in Paris last year and which will be dealt with by COP22 in Marrakech, Morocco, in two weeks' time. These are temperature increases that put the agricultural sector in crisis in our country, jeopardising the sustainable development of the territory. These criticalities are certainly more evident in the South of our country. The cancellation of Agensud, which belonged to the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies, the introduction of a Commissioner ad acta, after the cancellation of Agensud, the transfer of powers from the Commissioner to the various departments of the Ministry of Agricultural Policies unfortunately did not accelerate, as people wished, the activity related to the implementation of the national irrigation programme. In our country, especially in the South, irrigation networks and water infrastructure are absent or old. Where they exist, they are inefficient, because they are not maintained. There are high water losses, resulting in huge costs for citizens. This isn't a coincidence. Certainly there are climate change. But this is mainly linked to a sensible management of the political consortia, inefficient and ineffective, to the responsibility of those who have not used the large Community funds, which remain in the drawer. These are the characteristics that, unfortunately, are present in different areas of the South - let us be clear - for the responsibilities of many politicians and administrators, more attentive to clientele actions than to the general interest of the public good and the communities. It is enough to think, for a moment, of the problem of irrigation, of the sensible management of the waste cycle. Let us think of Campania, for which all Italians pay for the perfumed European sanctions. Let us think, for example, of the scandal of the management of the waste cycle in Sicily, where - paradoxical - there is not yet a regional waste plan. Instead of being based on treatment plants, we still work there and dispose of landfills. Having said that, the Northern League Group essentially shares the three motions submitted. It is good that the Government is committed to strengthening action to fully implement the ongoing programme on irrigation infrastructure and hydro-electric power plants already funded. It is good for us to evaluate projects of appropriate investments that pursue above all - this is a theme that has emphasized my colleague Piccoli - energy efficiency up to self-sufficiency. It is good for us to start serious reflection and discussion on the systems of reclamation consortia, including governance, which are now making water from all sides. We would like, after the approval of these motions, to have a periodic commitment from the Government that, by delegation of the relevant parliamentary committees, will ensure that this supervision takes place periodically, thus avoiding that this morning's debate will end in a favourable vote on these three motions. Beyond the chatter, let's look at the facts above all. Therefore, I confirm the vote in favour of the three motions, as reworded. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u98	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, with our motion - on which we will of course vote in favour - we wanted to focus on the need for careful planning of our country's water resources, which represent a vital asset for development, on which they impact, but - perhaps we should focus more on this - the phenomena of climate change, such as rising temperatures, are now massive. Moreover, we already had a fairly serious problem in the country about the actual availability of resources; with the accentuation of these phenomena the problem risks becoming dramatic. We have become increasingly widespread drought phenomena, alternating with real floods: the famous water bombs. It is clear that, especially for the agricultural sector, taking the issue of water management seriously becomes vital for the very survival of agriculture, just as it is vital for soil protection. First of all, we should put in place a plan for water saving, therefore for rational management of resources against waste. At the same time, however, we need proper management of the infrastructure network, ensuring maintenance and functionality. It is therefore absolutely necessary and urgent to make full and proper use of the economic resources available for water infrastructure, supporting the activities of the planning bodies. In these areas, which we consider to be a priority, we have a great deal of concern about Mr Marinello's first-signed motion, which is why we will be abstaining. It is obvious, in fact, that the Ministry has the task of ensuring that the transfer of powers from Agensud to the commissioner does not result in further delays; however, it is equally clear that we cannot even afford further setbacks. I would also add that, with regard to the overcoming of the former Agensud, a number of functions had been transferred by the Ministry and specific additional tasks assigned to rationalization. So, honestly, we do not understand the need for a further strengthening of the Commissioner's management, deleted more than a year ago, because all the commitments of the text of this motion, linked to the assumption of safeguarding the activities carried out by the Commissioner's structure, frankly do not seem very positive to us. We repeat that the actions needed by the infrastructure sector must be seen from a systemic perspective, enhancing the local level, resetting the issue of reclamation consortia and, above all, ensuring that funding for the National Irrigation Plan - which is referred to as 800 million in the 2014-2020 programming period - is well used. Among other things, the CIPE has allocated more than 400 million euros of funds to the agriculture sector and these resources must be used immediately for the implementation of the irrigation plan, giving priority to the modernization and the pursuit of a particular interest for the South of our country. In conclusion, my Group will abstain on the first-signed motion by Senator Marinello and will vote in favour of motion 666 (text 2) and the first-signed motion by Senator Cioffi, as reworded. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u101	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, I would like to speak briefly in order to ask that we be able to sign motion 406 (text 3), of which Senator Marinello is the first signatory. My group is fully aware of the motion, which it shares and will therefore vote in favour with conviction. It also announces that the AL-A Group will vote in favour of the motions that received the Government's favourable opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Marinello suggests that I accept the request to sign the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u104	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would like to speak briefly to thank my colleagues Mr Formigoni and, above all, Mr Vaccari and Mr Caleo, who have actively contributed to the drafting of the motion. I would also like to thank Senator Piccoli for his contribution and Senator Barani for the signature just made by his Group. To Senator Cioffi I say that it is absolutely not important how much an institution is dated because, in my opinion, it is always necessary to examine and evaluate the relationship between costs and benefits. [[Senator Sollo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u107	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, we are talking about reclamation consortia. Just to make it local, I recall that the reclamation consortia were already provided for in a Royal Decree of 1904 and that their competences were well specified in a subsequent Royal Decree of 1933. We are talking about this issue. We have heard that there are problems related to climate change, something sacrosanct, very true and before everyone's eyes. A more serious problem with which we have to face is, unfortunately, the intense urbanization of the soil, because the problem of the reclamation derives not only from the increase of precipitation concentrated in a very narrow time, but also from a decrease of the coefficient of absorption of the soil. In fact, not only have we built in a wild way, with the consequence that areas of competence of the reclamation consortia are cemented because of the many constructions, but we have also increased in a very strong way the areas cultivated with greenhouses. This has also produced a significant increase in the flow coefficient in natural and artificial watercourses. So, we are faced with a completely changed ground situation. Consortia had the role of guaranteeing clean-up and avoiding flooding due to this strong increase in draining waters, facilitating drainage by increasing sections. However, the consortia did not intervene properly. This is what happened, nothing more and nothing less. Once we talked about hydrogeological failure and reminded everyone that a royal decree, again in 1904, stipulated that it could not be built within ten meters from the shore of natural and artificial canals. What has happened is before everyone's eyes. These are the problems we are facing. The government has said that there is money, because there are national and regional development plans and the Development and Cohesion Fund. However, it is not enough just to have the money, we must ensure that the procedures are effective. I take the example of my Region, Campania, where there is a very strong overlap of competences: the reclamation consortia are joined by the Regional Agency for the defence of the soil, the Civil Genio, the Basin Authority and the various hydrogeological emergency stations. So it becomes a chaos: the problem is to understand who does what and rearrange skills. You say that you want to reform the Constitution because this is how Italy continues. However, the country goes on not in this way, but by putting in order overlapping competences. That is so clear and clear that we should not even say it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I realize that the powers of the State have passed to the Regions already in 1977 and so it is an old story, but the State can approve of the coordination rules - that can do it! - to tell the regions that, if everyone behaves like this, the system does not work. In this sense the State can and must intervene. As far as water infrastructure is concerned, we have already said that a lot has been done. Let us remember that only 20% of the water we take from the environment is intended for human consumption. Most of them go to agriculture, with a quota of 45%, while 20% go to industrial uses. We have therefore put in place the former Agensud police station, which managed a lot of money and which dealt with the implementation of irrigation works: rightly, as was said by the representative of the Government, it has been eliminated. In fact, we are talking about Agensud, which disappeared in 1986, while the Agency for the Mezzogiorno disappeared in 1992. So we really are faced with the absurdity of a commissioner's management. As we have said, however, the Commissioner's management, on the part concerning hydrogeological failure, still exists and there is an incredible confusion. What a serious state should do is put back in order its powers. This is what you should do, and this is what we hope you will do. Probably this wish will fall into the void, also because it will be difficult to explain to the governors of the Regions, like my dear "friend" Vincenzo De Luca - I use a euphemism - who must act in the interest of making things work. I don't think the government has an easy conversation with a character like De Luca, but we should intervene. What we urge through the motion is the reordering of competences, to understand who must do what, the allocation of resources to carry out the works and a verification action, to understand if they have been done and how they work. I have given you the example of the dam of Campolattaro, which has been standing still for twenty years because the works of drainage have not been done. These works are owned by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. We therefore hope that the Government will take action seriously and that, instead of reforming the Constitution, it will reform a system that does not work. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u110	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking only to announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group at the three motions tabled, with the emphasis that we believe that this can only be considered the start of a deepening, which we believe is important, in particular for the issue of full efficiency and not just energy.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u113	VACCARI (PD). Madam President, I too shall limit myself to voting in favour of motion 406 (text 3), first signed by Senator Marinello, whom I thank for incorporating the initial text with other points, both in relation to the premises and to the provisions relating to commitments. I also declare the vote in favour of the parts of the other motions on which the Secretary of State Castiglione has agreed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u114	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 406 (text 3). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 406 (text 3), tabled by Senator Marinello and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 665 (text 2). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 665 (text 2), tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 666 (text 2). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 666 (text 2), tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u115	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 119, 1004, 1034, 1931 and 2012, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. The rapporteur, Senator Caleo, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u116	Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, framework law No 394 of 6 December 1991 on protected areas is about to turn twenty-five years and, after all this time, we can say that it was a good law; a law born thanks to the important work done, at the end of the eighties, by environmental associations and the ability to listen to politics and institutions, which opened the way to the season of parks in our country. It should be remembered, colleagues, that the protected areas in our country, according to the latest data of 2010, are 871, for a protected land area of 32,000 square kilometers, about 10.5 percent of the total, to which are added the more than 28,000 square kilometers of protected area at sea and the approximately 2,300 sites of community importance (SIC), divided into special conservation zones and special protection zones (ZSC and ZPS), identified by the Regions. We are talking about 24 national parks, 29 protected marine areas and 152 regional parks. Meanwhile, since 1991 to today, the context in which the framework law was incorporated has significantly changed; for example, the institutional structure in our country has changed, new regulations have been introduced at European level in the field of the conservation and protection of natural goods; attention and awareness has increased... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u117	Excuse me, Senator Caleo. Colleagues, allow the rapporteur to speak so that he is heard by the House. Senator Barani and that little group, please. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u118	Mr Caleo, rapporteur. Thank you, Madam President. I was saying, Italian citizens' awareness of environmental issues has grown. Knowledge of the effects of climate change and its need to protect biodiversity has also grown. For these reasons, an amendment of the law is necessary. We must not be afraid to update legislation that suffers from the time and that needs a version 2.0, to revive the activity of the protected areas and the management of the new competences that we want to assign to them. Colleagues, overcoming scepticism is difficult: we know how much easier it is to create consensus for maintaining the status quo. But the bet that awaits us today is not to defend the existence of parks - to which no one is attacking - but to create the conditions for them to perform their functions as best as possible: protection and growth of biodiversity; promotion of good practices in the use of natural resources; education for the sustainability and enhancement of local territories and economies. The system of protected areas touches, with different intensity, more than half of the Italian municipalities, constituting an important green resource also for the big cities. In my opinion, the parks, as a valuable tool for the management of natural resources and the territory, either live and expand their activity as a motor of sustainable development outside their borders, thus dialogue with the territorial realities on which they insist, or survive in the useless, self-referentiality or, worse still, they can turn into the fig leaf behind which to hide the various acts of aggression to the territory and the landscape perpetrated by unprejudiced administrators or entrepreneurs. Parks must be lived as a useful tool, close to people, able to improve our living conditions, virtuous tools of public policies capable of soliciting the action of private actors willing to bet on the green economy. In order to do this, it is necessary to involve the local communities more closely, also with the organizational and management modalities of the agency. The draft law provides for all this and I would like to thank all those who have worked hard to bring the measure to this point: the President and all colleagues of the Environment Commission, Councilman De Salvo and Commission officials, the Directorate for Protected Areas and the Legislative Office of the Ministry of the Environment. The process in the Commission of this draft law was very long precisely because we were aware of the difficulty of acting on such an important law. The investigation work, whatever the case may be, has been particularly thorough. We have carried out an articulated listening phase for all stakeholders in protected areas. Twenty-five are the number of hearings held in the Commission, including those of the most representative environmental associations, not counting missions in the territories of the various parks. We've had 36 referencing sessions. A total of 1,884 amending proposals have been submitted to the Single Text: an important synthesis work that has led us to the text that we are about to discuss, a text that builds its facility on a more streamlined and strengthened governance for protected areas. The problem of long commissioners and missed understandings is eliminated, the role of the President of the park becomes stronger, always appointed by decree from the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, after agreement of the Region or the Regions on whose territory the protected area falls, within a tern of subjects with a proven experience in the institutions, in the professions and in the management of public or private structures. The office becomes incompatible with any other elective office and with positions in the administrative bodies of public bodies. In order to overcome the impasse, as I said earlier, of the long commissariats, which expired the time for the agreement with the Regions, forty-five days of appointment is made, after hearing the competent parliamentary committees - be careful - choosing first among the names of the ternal and not, as I have heard, discreetly among the trusted men of the Minister. Colleagues, allow me an inscription: I do not think that the Presidents of the parks should be distinguished only by the excellent scientific curriculum, they must have the experience and the ability to measure themselves with the contexts of reference, as well as the directors who instead of becoming ministerial leaders, who decide on their own what is best to do, become the tool for achieving the objectives that the bodies in charge - the president, the park council and the community of the park - define. It is not enough that the nominations are made by institutions as far away from the territory where the park insists to have the guarantee of their quality. The appointment of a director, made in a discretionary manner by a minister, cannot be better than that made by a good board of directors. With the repeal of the register of park directors, we therefore anticipate a new and more transparent procedure for the appointment of the director to be appointed by the Governing Council on the basis of a ternal. The tern will be the result of a public selection between profiles of proven experience in the management of protected areas and public administration. What does that mean? While we now have a book composed mainly of men and women (a few) over fifty years old, some of whom even without a degree, from now on only competition winners with proven management experience in the protected areas, both terrestrial and marine, will be able to aspire to this important role. We have changed the composition of the Governing Council, which will be from six to eight members and will be designated 50% by the park community. All this to save time and money, and make decisions quicker and easier for a president to contact the park community more directly, under the supervision of the Ministry of the Environment and auditors. The target is clear. Approaching the park to the territory, without it losing contact with a national and international system of nature conservation. Parks are not the aim of conservation, but one of the means, albeit fundamental, to reach the new borders of conservation. Parks, when isolated, even those better managed, almost never achieve significant results in the conservation of habitats, especially if they are not included in an ecological network and if they are not guided by a national strategy for the conservation of biodiversity. We wanted to propose a new committee for protected areas that brings together all the parks, national and regional, that has advisory and proactive functions, that inside it see the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and that of the agricultural policies food and forestry, the Regions, the municipalities, Federparchi and the environmental associations, with the aegis and the technical support of ISPRA. The new National Technical Committee, in coordination with the Joint Committee for Biodiversity, established by decree of the Ministry of the Environment, will be the precise tool to finally put into place all the protected areas of our country, and to define the objectives and actions to be carried out in order to achieve the national and supranational objectives of protecting biodiversity. To strengthen even more the national system of protected areas we have included in the text a great novelty: the areas of the territory included in the European ecological network called Natura 2000, SIC and SPA, falling entirely or partially, and even those outside the protected area, will be managed by the park and will contribute, together with it, to the conservation of biodiversity. In addition, where there are protected marine areas bordering a land park, a single body is formed, classified as a national park with a sea extension. Another important chapter is the plan of the park. By maintaining the fundamental aims of protecting the naturalistic-environmental, historical, cultural, anthropological and traditional values, the plan of the park absorbs the economic-social plan, which is repealed, and also assumes the role of instrument with which the park can regulate economic initiatives to enhance the territory and the traditional and agro-silvo-pastoral building heritage as well as sustainable tourism. The plan, whose approval process is simplified, also recognizes the landscape value (and this is another very important aspect), reinforced by the obligation of strategic environmental assessment. In order to simplify the procedures of the urban code, which since 2004 provided for the dual authorisation, of the park and of the superintendence, also for small interventions, is expected, in the case of the plan with landscape value or in the absence of the plan with reference to the urban code, the unique nullaosta. This theme has been addressed together with the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism and also viewed by the Observatory of Cultural Heritage. Through the plan, the park can also define the contiguous areas of understanding with the Region. In the adjacent areas the park regulates hunting and mining and fishing. Also in the plan of the park are defined the specific conservation objectives for each protected area. As far as wildlife control is concerned, the explicit ban on hunting in parks is introduced. For the protection of biodiversity, plans for the management of wildlife within the competence of the park are introduced with the mandatory and binding opinion of the ISPRA and the use of qualified staff, employee or external, but with training certified by the ISPRA itself. The plans provide for the containment - from the non-bloody methods to the capture and, only as a last resort, the killing, always with the binding opinion of ISPRA - of the species that may cause damage to biodiversity and risks to human safety. As far as ecosystem and royalty services are concerned, operators of electrical installations, mining, biomass plants, oil and gas crops, pipelines, pipelines, non-underground pipelines and mooring docks for boats, already present and active within parks at the time of the entry into force of the law, will have to pay a contribution to the bodies for the ecosystem services offered. A large part of this contribution will be channelled into a fund, established at the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, for the financing of policies and plans for the conservation and protection of biodiversity in the park area. Parks will also have the right to charge visitors a ticket for the services offered and to grant their brands for consideration, to enter into sponsorship contracts, to dispose of state property and property confiscated from the mafias. The Government is entrusted with a delegation for the introduction of voluntary systems for the remuneration of ecosystem services offered by protected areas, as provided for in the law on green economy, the famous environmental connection. Then there is the game of the new parks: there is an amendment of the rapporteur, submitted to validation of the Budget Commission, on the Regional Park of Matese and on the Regional Natural Park of Portofino, where land and sea, marine protected area and land park join, also here. Then there is the big bet from the Po Delta Park, interregional park, with a delegation to the Government for its establishment. The most important region of Europe moves from a stalemate, it gives the possibility to create an interregional park, with a unique direction, prodromic at the birth of a national park. I think it is an important and significant step that we must be able to grasp in its importance and then continue with the definition of the protected area. With this measure, as I said just now, we have also remedied the wounds and forgetfulness of Law No. 394 of 1991: land and sea in a single park; finally a role defined for ISPRA. I also welcome the criticisms made by those who claimed that the role of ISPRA is that of scientific research towards protected areas: for the first time we have given a specific role to ISPRA, one of the main environmental research and monitoring institutes, with leading researchers. Well, for the first time, ISPRA will have an important word in defining the conservation strategy for our ecosystems and parks. Each park has been given, within the Park Plan, an objective in terms of conservation to be achieved, which must be reported annually, through the Committee for Protected Areas, to Parliament: therefore, the maximum of monitoring combined with the support of scientific research by ISPRA. I believe that these are the main novelties of the measure, which also fill some shortcomings in Law No. 394, which - I repeat in this Assembly - was a fundamental law for the promotion of parks in Italy and a milestone in the conservation of this country. I start with the conclusion: this bill wants to rekindle the interest of the institutions in parks with the aim of bringing them back to the wider framework of the global and Community strategies for the conservation of biodiversity and to stop its loss, ensuring that parks are also an active part in the fight against climate change and habitat change. With this proposal we believe that we have equipped the parks with some more tools to put ourselves at the service of the communities and to contribute to the improvement of the country. I should like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by recalling something very important and exciting to me. In my listening itinerary, which touched most of the peninsula, during which once again I was able to appreciate the extraordinary beauties of our country, from the North to the South, passing through the Centre and our beautiful islands, thanks to my colleague Morgoni I knew the uniqueness of the Sibillini Mountains and their park on the Marche side, after having enjoyed some years ago in other clothes (then I was president of a protected area) the Umbrian part, the one linked in an indissoluble way to Norcia and Castelluccio. Well, in Ussita, Mr Morgoni and I, in a crowded public assembly, met simple citizens, entrepreneurs, shepherds, breeders and tour operators, especially young people and women, people living within the protected area. This theme concerns all the parks: the people who lived there, after an initial skepticism, began to make a big contribution to the park. Therefore, after the initial and physiological skepticism, these people recognized its value and wanted to contribute decisively to the extraordinary opportunities that the park offered them; with protagonism they shortened the distances that many times appear between the Roman decisions and the priorities represented by the local communities. The useful conservations carried out on those days, like others in the territories of the parks, have also oriented the perfection of this proposal of reform that, without taking away anything from the national and international strategic horizon of the parks, finds its heart beating within the communities that live and work there. I would like to dedicate this work to them, to these communities, to the people of Ussita, Visso, Norcia, Castelluccio and Preci, without forgetting Amatrice, Accumuli, Arquata del Tronto and the hundreds of villages of our hinterland hit several times and in a dramatic way by the earthquake. We work, colleagues, so that they can return as soon as possible to the places of belonging to their activities, to make communities. The park must become the protagonist and vector of good reconstruction, of memory, of good use of the territory; one must be able to live and benefit, not only of economic nature, but also in terms of quality of life in this extraordinary and beautiful mountain. The Sibillini Mountains, with their park, must become the paradigm of an Italy that wants to enhance the beauty of the landscape and defend an ecosystem where people live well, with great crispness with nature. To all of them we must strive in an extraordinary joint effort, to all of them we must offer not only our solidarity, our embrace and our closeness, but also demonstrate political capacity, in such a way that concrete and quick answers can be given. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u119	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprentico Statale (Sorrento) in Sorrento, in the Province of Naples, who are today visiting the Senate and attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u120	I declare the general discussion open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u121	Madam President, I would like to thank the colleagues and colleges of the Commission and to add my thanks to those just made by the rapporteur, Mr Caleo. We owe it above all to him, to his determination over the course of these months, to obtain a result which we consider to be positive, in the light of so many criticisms, but also of the many support received, as well as of the information used by us to draw up the best of the laws possible. This is a good bill, which will certainly be liable to ongoing checks. Not surprisingly, we have provided for new elements in this law that can effectively monitor the work being done within the parks and the level of quality of park governance. Law No. 394 of 1991, which we wanted to amend, is a good law, I would say extraordinary for the time; it was not by chance used to draw more than 60% of the Italian territory as a protected territory thanks to parks of various nature, to SIC areas (site of community importance), ZPS (area with special protection) whatever else. In fact, much more than 50% of the Italian territory is protected and is protected also thanks to what is included in this law, which we are going to modify. What made us change it? As we have said, it has been twenty-five years, which have brought to light some limitations as a result of the long time that has elapsed. Mr Caleo said now that it was often perceived as a constraint, but not as that economic and rewarding opportunity for areas of particular value. Still, some economic and operational instruments have been lacking to translate that environmental heritage into a true mine of resources. According to this bill these resources will be in part autonomous (we will see), partly derived from partnerships and also from norms that we have inserted within the measure relating to contributions determined by the civil and social importance, as well as environmental, to which the park agencies can absorb in the future thanks to this law. There is the possibility of being funded to improve conservation, make it usable and make possible and improved the ecological tourism that is currently growing exponentially and that can guarantee a lot of work to specialist figures, especially young people. So change to improve: this was important to us, but not easy. Months of work, a lot of hearings and an enormous number of amendments have led to this result, and others we will probably see during the debate in this House. I would like to identify the characteristic elements, in my view, of the amendments included. As I said, there are new management methods and new ways of financing, which will help to implement the recognition of ecosystem services, and thus to recognize the value of the management and maintenance of that natural capital that we are lucky to have. I'm quoting for titles. From the landing contribution to the smaller islands for the protected areas to the inclusion of the park entities among the beneficiaries of the five per thousand of the IRPEF Act of 2006: after university, scientific research and volunteering, we will also have the park entities that will benefit from this important five per thousand. In addition, 30% of national park revenues will be deposited in a fund to implement actions that promote biodiversity, natural habitats, funding of projects and system actions. Any environmental activity already existing or in some way insesible, of course after verification, within the same Italian parks will also have to pay a special royalty to the managers of the park, with a double meaning: to contribute to the valorization, but also as an act of compensation, in order to contribute to the necessary mitigation effects and to give value to the specificity of a fragile environment and to protect. I still think of that quota for the minimum time, but that we would like to increase, relating to the fund for the killing of non-autoctonous animals, which will be used for the search for methods of non-violent and non-bloody management of improper wildlife. Still the positive use from the commercial point of view, with very precise terms and rules whose modalities will have to be clearly indicated by the Government, those brands of the parks that can serve to make even more known their existence and above all to allow to enjoy the economic benefits that they detect. There is also another important issue and this is the second one that I would like to point out: no more approximation and conflicts of scientific or technical expertise with regard to the actions necessary to ensure the proper management of the parks. ISPRA - it has been said - assumes with this law a role of enormous importance, guaranteeing everyone - indeed - no one excluded. ISPRA is therefore called upon to provide scientific and technical support, monitoring and environmental control, and will also have to identify operational tools for plan plans for eradication or limitation of alien species, and to assess how any kind of intervention in protected areas is to be carried out; as has been said, the concept is extended to areas with special protection to sites of Community importance and special conservation areas. We have eliminated selective hunting within the parks, which was intended as an exception and unfortunately did not see an explicit ban in the current legislation. It also changes the way in which the relationship between the park and the municipalities is regulated in relation to the management of the plans. Relations between regions change with regard to nominations. Therefore the regulations for the proper management of protected parks and marine areas are extended and applied with clear deadlines and responsibilities. Paragraph 7 of Article 12 states that, by way of derogation from any other provision, any opinion, understanding, pronouncing or nulla precludes from the public administration to the managers of the parks must take place within the peremptory period of sixty days, meaning otherwise favorable; therefore certainty in the appointments in the boards of directors and the directors of the park institutions. Let me mention the shameful case of the presidency of the Park of the Dolomites, never nominated for a year and a half for perennial conflicts between State and Region, with an administrative and management holiday that has already delayed and will delay the implementation of projects and will lose European funding. So, that's enough. I begin to conclude with the establishment of the Po Delta Park. Let me say that this is really a historic moment. Article 25, with the delegation to the Government to provide for the establishment of an interregional park in this area, is a cherry on the cake in this reform of the Italian park areas. A measure that will see the light in accord with the two Regions and the local communities, but finally will see this wet area, of extraordinary value, overlooking the Adriatic Sea and with a faunal reality of incredible wealth of its kind - defined, not by chance, the Italian Camargue, but much more extensive and, let me say, much more beautiful - attempt the way of a governance capable of enhancing for the purposes of protection, safeguard and promotion of tourism, a common heritage of extraordinary beauty. River management, coastal management, recovery for other purposes of abandoned industrial activities; until recently we thought - think how absolutely stupid we are - of reinvesting in the Porto Tolle power station. All this will instead become a plan to develop by the managing body of the Park, in connection with the local communities, within the time indicated by six months, an area that last year became a precious biosphere reserve, included in the program Man and the biospehere (MAB) by UNESCO. He will thus have his ransom for a truly compatible development with a heritage of such great beauty. This measure therefore wants to be a revival of the many parks and extraordinary marine areas that we have in this country. The Government, which I thank for the work done by the undersecretary here Barbara Degani, and the Italian Parliament believe that it is an extraordinary force that we can put in place, thanks to this measure, towards the maintenance of that beauty that we too often enjoy unawares, but also for the purposes of proper governance and for the purposes of that necessary compatible development, in tiptoe, but with enormous economic, social, environmental and work importance. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u122	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to remind you that for this bill on 11 September 2013, more than three years ago, the urgency procedure was voted on to proceed with the abbreviated examination of it, in accordance with Rule 81 of the Senate Rules of Procedure. Today we are at 3 November 2016; more than three years have passed and this is certainly not the fault of bicameralism equal. That is the first premise. The North League has always considered important, for the preservation of the human species itself, the contrast of the tendency to loss of biodiversity through the protection of protected areas and ecosystems. Scientific studies show that the stability of ecosystems also affects human health. Our country holds the European primacy of biodiversity; it has an important allocation of habitats, many of these declared priorities at Community level. Between national and regional parks and marine protected areas about 12.5% of the national territory is protected, a percentage that, together with protected areas at European level, i.e. sites of Community interest (SIC) and special protection zones, reaches even 21.8%. These percentages are constantly increasing. It is a wealth that needs to be properly valued as the real resource of our territory and not to be treated as a mere territorial bond. According to our Group, the regions and local authorities, i.e. the institutions closest to the needs of the territory and the citizens, must be responsible for the governance of the protected areas and the landscape co-planning. The continued existence of national protected areas now responds to the needs of mere financing of the current expenditure of the park institutions and, given the limited resources available, affects only the less virtuous ones that are unable to develop financing through appropriate self-financing practices, the development of sustainable tourism and the promotion of typical products. One of the important reforms proposed by the bill is the simplification for the establishment of marine protected areas, including the extension of national land parks in adjacent marine protected areas. Unfortunately, however, it is not possible to establish marine protected areas and marine reserves also by the Regions in order to avoid, for the stretches of sea adjacent to the regional protected areas, a double management with burdens to burden on the public finances. We consider this to be a very serious deficiency, since the marine protected area system is suffering from reduced financial resources for ordinary management and investment. On the contrary, the establishment of marine reserves in coastal areas where there are already regional protected area managing bodies should be a priority in the reform. Another concept that cannot be shared is the identification of a contiguous territory in the park area that, despite being outside the perimeter of the park, is subject to the governance of the park body itself. We do not consider it appropriate that the Park Regulation defines the exercise of activities also in the areas adjacent to it and in the SCI areas and in the special protection zones, which also partially fall within the perimeter of the park, thus subtracting the competences of the Municipality and the Region. We do not like the provision of the bill where it provides that, in relation to the contiguous areas, measures governing hunting, fishing and mining for the protection of the environment may be provided for in the park regulation. In view of the increasing extent of the national protected territory, this is an imposition of absurd prohibitions that do not fall within the jurisdiction of the park. Another great novelty introduced with this bill is the imposition of additional fees to all grantors to hydroelectric concessions, mining activities, the passage of pipelines and pipelines, to state property, as a contribution to the expenses of the park for the recovery of nature. Certainly the aim is to find funding for park management, given the shortage of state resources. Moreover, this taxation does not only concern the areas within the perimeter of the park - also because some activities are precisely prohibited within the parks - but also covers all adjacent areas. Farmers holding biomass plants in park areas and adjacent areas are also subject to the new tax: this is unacceptable for us in the North League. It is not clear why the exemption from the contribution for producers of electricity from renewable sources with plants already in operation in the parks. We talk about wind and photovoltaics, really impacting plants, however more than pipelines and pipelines. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is, in any case, an increase in taxation that is not acceptable, especially in the current economic crisis and in view of the difficulties that our companies face. What, then, about the government's much-publicised simplification and rationalization of the procedures for carrying out administrative procedures? On the one hand, government and majority simplify the provisions of the Conference of Services contained in Law No 241 of 1990, as amended subsequently, providing for forms of connection between the competent administrations to decide on the authorizations of interest for the enterprises, including the environmental ones, introducing mechanisms aimed at overcoming situations of inertia; on the other hand, on the other hand, in this measure, eliminate the silence-consent on the inertia of the park in expressing the opinion on the infrastructural interventions, also for the cases of minor building interventions, where the competent authority to the issue of the permits to build or the same authorized professional would already be able to control the compatibility with the regulations of the park. We believe that the inertia of the park entity should not and should not lead to the paralysis of the administrative authorisation procedures. Another issue to point out is the elimination of compensation for wildlife damage in the adjacent areas of the park. It does not understand the ratio of the norm since the bill extends the governance and regulation of the park also to the contiguous areas, but restricts the possibility of compensation in the area of the park, eliminating the compensations that could be more onerous for the park institutions but less acceptable for the damaged citizens. However, we share the decrease of the organs of the park bodies through the elimination of the junta, the decrease of the members of the board of directors and the auditors, the elimination of the examination committee for opinions on concessions permissions, but we do not share the expected silence- agreement on the understanding with the Region for the appointment of the president of the park agency. Moreover, the absence of the agreement with the Region for the appointment of the councillors represents a centralization of the management in charge of the Ministry of the environment, that we do not share absolutely. I shall conclude by saying that the Group of the North Legacy is observing the phase of the discussion of the amendments, at this point postponed until next week, for an assessment and for the most appropriate considerations that will lead to the expression of the final vote of our Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u124	Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the rapporteur's report, Senator Caleo, and I have to say that what has been said, which clearly traces what has been said in this draft law, is, in my view, the result of rather dreamlike ideas rather than practical and real. Through the amendment of Law No. 394, a new picture of national or inter-regional parks was painted (but, as Senator Caleo said, preparatory to the national dimension). I must say that this idyllic and paradise picture does not correspond to the truth. I can say this knowingly: I grew up and lived in the Po Delta which, for those who do not know, is one of the most beautiful wetlands - perhaps the most beautiful - among those in Europe. The area is located about three meters below sea level. The territory - this was discussed this morning during the examination of the bill - is kept standing by the work of man through those structures and works that are called hydrovore and that allow people to live in this wet area, characterized by a beautiful natural environment. The population has thus managed to live in these areas in recent years, but - I would say - in recent centuries. In fact, the real change took place in 1604 with the so-called cut of Porto Viro, with which the course of the Po has deviated, which I believe remains today the most important hydraulic work that has ever been carried out on our national territory. Anyway, I come to the point. I grew up and lived in this area where, under regional law of 1997, the regional park was established; nevertheless, this good and proactive vision of community growth and development has not been realized at all. It is something in its own right, which has produced nothing effective. It is therefore obvious that the idyllic picture presented by the rapporteur is in no way shared by me. Moreover, I have the impression that the draft law under consideration was born suffering, with a birth that extends exceedingly and with the risk of seeing, in a metaphorical sense, a premature baby born, dragging behind all the consequences of the case. The draft law in question was examined in haste and fury in the Commission territory, environment, environmental goods, without the people and peoples of the Po Delta (I refer to Article 25, already cited by Senator Puppato) being heard. The activities, the people and those who for many years - for generations - carry out this working life within the Park have not been heard. As far as I know, the mayors of the Po Delta are very, very critical of the draft law under consideration. I see that the time available to me is running out and I am therefore forced to draw conclusions. I find it difficult to accept that this Park is called prodromic at the national park, at the service of the communities, a beating heart for the people and a source of extraordinary opportunities for development. Senator Caleo has given an absolutely non-real view of how things are today. To conclude, Madam President, I have to say that I find it difficult to consider the statements made by Senator Puppato on the national dimension of the Po Delta Park on the cake. Rather than a icing on the cake, it looks like an omelette, made even with bad eggs. Therefore, I ask you to intervene on the times and to hear the local people and mayors who, within the Park, are the expression of the citizens. Through their democratic will they express themselves and take absolutely account of the will of the people who live within the Park area of the Po Delta. I also accept the criticisms made of the contiguous areas, the areas defined as sites of Community interest (SICs) and special protection zones (SPAs), which today are intended to include, with all the constraints that this could produce. Without prejudice to the love for this beautiful area of the Po Delta, by one who was born and raised to us, it is clear that we all want it to be preserved, but in the right way. [[Applause from Senator Piccoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u126	Appreciating the circumstances and considering that many Members felt that the previous debate would continue, I believe that the continuation of the debate should be postponed until next week. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u129	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, unemployment is still rising. Since Renzi was in government, the world of work has deteriorated completely. Unemployment is still rising and unfortunately has reached a peak of 11.7%. The sooner this gentleman leaves, the better for all Italians. Unfortunately, in addition to that, there is also to note the existence of a particular problem in Italy, so much so that I am wondering if perhaps there is a trade behind all this. The problem I am referring to is that of eligible competitions. There are people who have even reached 15 competitions and have proved to be suitable for 15 times, but remain in limbo. Let's remember that our children and grandchildren participate in the competitions and that participating in a competition means spending money on books and travels. I think all Italians know what we're talking about. There are, therefore, blocked rankings, the components of which remain in limbo, waiting. What are they waiting for? It is therefore appropriate that, at the time when the State is having to recruit, the rankings of the persons already found suitable should be flown directly. Let's solve this problem before we open new competitions. So I have a doubt: since there are suitable people, why not scroll through the rankings instead of doing new competitions to create other suitable ones and bring other people to spend money on books and travels? Sometimes there is also some politicians who promise them something, but these eligible ones stay there waiting. Does this situation also serve this other kind of trade? I very much hope that is not the case. It would therefore be appropriate to act in the sense that I have indicated, given that Renzi is raising unemployment and incredible levels. With the country that is being destroyed, he thinks of the referendum: he gave us the referendum, about which to discuss, rather than talking about serious problems, such as the fact that there are 11 million Italians who are unable to access medical care and 10 million Italians who are below the poverty line. It would be appropriate to talk about these serious problems. At this point it will be essential to say "No": Get out of here!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u132	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Madam President, the Marches and the whole of central Italy for two months have been tested by this continuous earthquake, which is raging everyone. Of course, it is necessary to deal with the emergency of people and the inagibility of homes. The multitude of displaced people obviously alarms and requires everyone's attention. But in addition to homes there is another aspect to consider. I am referring to all major infrastructures, such as bridges, tunnels and hydraulic works. In particular, in the Province of Macerata, in the municipality of Cingoli, there is a lake, the artificial lake of Castreccioni, with a dam and a viaduct that are considered at high seismic risk. The dam generates drinking water for almost 100,000 people and the lake is crossed by four bridges, but the largest, the viaduct, suffers - the mayor reports - of structural defects known for a long time. At this point, or you take prompt action to ascertain the actual danger, and then you secure the viaduct, or we, my lords, potentially risk a second Vajont. Since we are always crying after things happen and not before, I would hope that at this moment, since the earth is shaking of its own, we would at least avoid the avoidable tragedies. I have put a question on this subject and I urge all senators to sign it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u135	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, in recent days Calabria has been experiencing another tragedy in a small country, Serra d'Aiello, of the denied education, of the right to ethereal and metaphysical school. It is a drama that prevents 16 primary school children from exercising their right to education. These children, due to problems - of which the prefecture itself is aware - insurgent between the municipal administrations of Serra d'Aiello and Amantea, cannot exploit, as is in their right, a free public school transport. Therefore, these 16 children are denied the possibility of not becoming NEETs, of not becoming labour for organized crime, of not becoming a potential basin for all those phenomena of deviance and perversion, for which, in the end, we are outraged. If a state wants to invest in education and culture through local and regional authorities, it has to cope with these emergencies. The school year started a long, long time ago. I add one last point of reflection. Serra d'Aiello has 450 residents. Denying the possibility of attending school to 16 children of primary school age is an absolute crime. In Serra d'Aiello, however, we think of investing so much public money because we want to create - as we learn from press sources - an extraordinary reception centre for asylum seekers and, even, for 450 residents, we expect the arrival of perhaps even 1,000 non-EU citizens and asylum seekers. On the structure in question, which once occupied so much space in the local newspapers and which was defined as a lager structure (because unfortunately there were also cases of black news), there would be so much to investigate. We would like the public money to be dedicated first and foremost to securing the citizens and children of Serra d'Aiello, because they have the same rights as everyone in Italy and we in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u138	ICHINO (PD). Madam President, I am urged to speak from Mr Puglia's speech. I am surprised that a colleague who, like him, is professionally familiar with the dynamics and functioning of the labour market, comes along, in such a fateful and seemingly naive way, with the counterfeiting - because this is the case - spread in daily information on what is happening in the field of employment and unemployment. That's the data. In the period between January 2015 and August 2016, compared to the corresponding period of 2013-2014, there were a total of 1,214,662 more assumptions. Of these, more than two thirds (818,306) fixed-term and one third (396,356) forward. That's the figure. And this means that if it can happen that, with these rising flows, unemployment increases by one decimal point, this is due only to the fact that previously inactive workers enter a labour market where they regain hope of finding employment. But both in terms of stocks (i.e. the overall level of employment, where we have about 700,000 more jobs, of which two thirds indefinitely over the last two years), and in terms of flow, the sign is clearly positive. I felt that I had to make it clear why in this House, at least sometimes, the truth is being said and false data is being corrected on issues that are so important to people's lives.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u141	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking because I have only now learned what is happening in Catania. In a neighborhood of my city, the shops had to close the shutters all day because today, at 16, the funeral of the son of a criminal will be celebrated. I have requested the intervention of the prefect and the police forces so that Catania does not become the stage of a performance of mafia power. It's an act that Catania doesn't deserve. It's an act that this country doesn't deserve.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-11-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-714.ana.u142	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.33 p.m.
