ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u4	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 17 and 18 March 2016 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u5	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, the appointment of the European Council risks reproducing a ritual and a liturgy that has been seen all too much in recent months. This is the third European Council meeting in a month, with an agenda that is essentially the same. It is therefore an indication of a problem of malfunction of method, even before it is of merit, that Italy has not failed to point out during the last meetings, both in the institutional fora, to which the representatives of the Government participate, and in the technical fora, in which the sherpas participate. The method, in fact, in this case is substance. If the European Council meets four times a year and takes decisions that are then implemented and implemented over the weeks it is a story. If, on the other hand, the European Council meets every twenty days by producing documents on which the days are lost, but on whose implementation there is a result close to zero, the problem of operation must be posed not by the Eurosceptics but by those who love the European institutions and put this issue as crucial. I would like to start with a parenthesis which, however, tackles the question of the composition of the European Council. A great scholar wrote, a few months ago, a valuable article on vetocracy. I think he's completing a book now. He is an American scholar who has already had a lot of analysis over the past few years. The idea of veto power, which does not correspond to decision-making power, concerns not only the European institutions but also some European governments. I try to be very brief and explicit. When we began to discuss the electoral law in this House - then we had different ideas and probably even now we continue to have them - we all shared, among the various hypotheses of school or in the field, the Spanish model. Then we identified the Spanish model as an index of governability. We are seeing in recent weeks that Spain is in danger of not being able to produce a government, so much so that the hypothesis of a return to the vote is no longer excluded. In Ireland and Slovakia, the electoral situation in recent weeks has not produced a clear government and, if you like, in Portugal, the party that won the election is not the party that has been entrusted with the task of forming a government. If we add to that that Greece voted three times in a year in 2015 (twice for the general elections and once for a referendum), we realize that the framework of the rules of the game and the working method is not an instrument for discussion for professionals but in Europe it is part of the problem we are facing. It's a big question of method. I believe, as someone has written today in an important Italian newspaper, that in the light of this also those who criticize Italicum must recognize that Italy is going to have a much more stable and clear vision, as the French and those who refer to a ballot that, in the end, necessarily declares a winner. If, however, a vote does not correspond to a commitment by the Government or in any case by the executive power, the risk is to reproduce, to an ever greater extent, a feeling of disconnected between the citizens and the institutions that produces, as the first immediate consequence, the widening of the rift between citizens and the ruling class. I am saying this because the debate on the model for the implementation and management of the European Councils does not concern, as has been reported, perhaps because of an excess of synthesis on our part, not wanting to make a European Council every fifteen days - even if it has its own reason - but the very idea of a mechanism that risks getting bogged down in the power of veto. We spend the afternoons discussing commas, but in the end the conclusion is that the decisions made are not implemented. It contrasts this reasoning with the agenda of the European Council: the same as in the last few times. And, therefore, also this intervention of mine will be able to repeat the fundamental points and qualifying the action of the Italian Government, first of all on the great migration issue. To use an extreme summary, Italy is in favour of the agreement with Turkey, but not at all costs. There are political, moral and valuable presuppositions that call for the need not to fail in the ideal of constitutive European identity. If we want to be honest with ourselves - we have already seen this House in a recent debate - Italy is a country that can afford the virtue of coherence in relations with Turkey, an attitude that - alas - cannot be extended to all the others. With both right and left governments Italy's political line towards Turkey has always been essentially identical (we can also remove the adverb substantially): real openness. This took place - I remember a visit by the then President of the Republic of Giorgio Napolitano to Ankara in 2009 - in a framework in which one tried to exploit the effort that Turkey was making. Italy has not changed its position, while the other European countries have, first, imposed a hasty stop to that process of enlargement, to that dialogue and to that accomplished negotiation and, then, insisting on immediately changing its position. It is also true that there is another Turkey today, which is experiencing tensions and difficulties and also moments of discomfort. I would like us not to forget here the victims of last Sunday's attack and to express together our solidarity and Italian affection for the Turkish people and the families of the victims of the attack. [[Applause]] However, the key point - on this I conclude the first step of my speech - is that Italy wants the agreement, because it knows that an agreement is important to reduce weight, especially on Greece (but not only), and that it is important to be able to discuss and dialogue with our Turkish friends on how to find help in managing migration, without forgetting - let me be allowed - that at this moment there is an emergency not only in Turkey, but also in Jordan and Lebanon. I would like us all to value a very important gesture, made a few hours ago by our President of the Republic who, during the state visit he is taking to Africa, between Ethiopia and Cameroon, chose to visit Ethiopia a refugee camp composed not of a few thousand people, but of tens of thousands of people. This is the clear sign that the migration emergency can only be met by the media in some parts of the world, but it is a major emergency that not only affects Turkey, Jordan or Lebanon, but also goes from Africa to South-East Asia. Therefore, Italy's position on migration is the same as last time, i.e. a coherent position. Two years ago we were told that only we had to deal with the issue of migration, whereas today the reality of the facts shows that we need a European response. When a year ago, in April, after the tragic events of the Mediterranean, we went to ask for an extraordinary meeting of the European Council, they looked at us as those who asked who knows what, but in the end the conclusion is that our position at the time (i.e. that migration is a great European theme and Europe needs to respond) has now become a shared heritage of all. However, the answer is still hard to take on the contours of a credible response. They got hotspots, but they didn't get reunions or relocations. Political progress has been made, but at the same time it has not been noted that the wall of fear, which has been built, is ever stronger and that it would be wrong to define it simply and banally populism or demagogy, because it is a feeling, a seed that is going through all of Europe and, if we look at the primary elections in America, it does not stop in Europe: it is voting on the basis of fear of the other, of the different; it is voting on the basis of terror of what the other can express. I have spoken of immigration, of the Italian position; let me make a brief comment, before moving on to the economic issue, on a fact. In recent days there has been not only the Turkish affair, but the terrorist attacks and threat have struck at the heart of some countries, particularly Africa. I refer mainly to Côte d'Ivoire, where a resort has been hit, with its guests who have become victims. I refer to the blood trail that now constantly and weekly connects different areas of our planet, united by the criminal and atrocious design of those who want to disintegrate our lives and, when they do not succeed, wants to force us to fear. It is the threat of extremist Islamic terrorism, which finds its victims and targets in a luxury hotel, in a restaurant in Paris, in a school in Pakistan, in a university in Kenya, in a museum in Tunisia, in a church in Nigeria. And I want to emphasize that beautiful letter of the four Catholic nuns killed in Yemen, in the general silence, which makes those who have had the opportunity to read it reflect. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Misto, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, AL-A, LN-Aut, CoR and GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and from the government benches]] It is the synagogues that are being targeted in Brussels and Copenhagen. Terrorism has not finished its terrible, tragic and atrocious plan. We must live with this threat. Let me say here, in the Senate, in the Senate where many of you have more experience, a greater capacity and a greater personal experience, that we have always lived with the emergency and that it is not true that the emergency comes today. I'm 41 years old. When I went to high school, the mob put bombs in our cities. I remember perfectly, a month before maturity, the shock, in my Florence, linked to the Fiat Fiorino and the attack on the Uffizi, the Georgofili, with the death of the student break and the Nencioni family. But, in the same way, we all know where we were when Giovanni Falcone or Paolo Borsellino were killed, a few months earlier; it's those moments when you remember exactly what happened and where you were. When you say: I remember it well, because when the news came I was there, it's a sign that that event in history tattooed something in our souls. So my generation grew up with this threat. My father's generation at the university saw the magistrates, professors and students shooting themselves in the streets: it was internal terrorism, it was brigatism, it was the forms of protest and rebellion of the Sixties and Seventies, which in some cases assumed the contours of an attack at the heart of the State. Let me tell you today, March 16, thirty-eight years after the terrible massacre of Via Fani in which President Aldo Moro was kidnapped and the men of his escort were brutally slaughtered. [[The Assembly stands. Live, prolonged applause.]] Italy at the time lived a terrible page. But if you think of the generation of my grandfather and no longer of my generation or of my father, the threat was the external threat, it was the war in France, it was the war in Greece, other than the European Council, other than the debate on commas. I mean, the threat has always accompanied the history of our country. Today the threat is different. It is different in the forms with which it manifests itself. I am thinking in particular of the choice of terrible targets and targets. I also think - I say this as a European citizen - of the stories of some young people of the generation following our own, caught up in the atrocious attraction of extremism and called upon to fight. As I said again this morning in the House of Deputies, I happened to read in a women's weekly - it is not a report, but a women's weekly that came out a few days ago - a beautiful and dramatic article that speaks of the mother of one of the boys who grew up in Brussels, radicalized, without the family fully aware of it, and suddenly left for Syria. DIVINE (LN-Aut). What are you telling us? Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. That mother, a European citizen, in the outskirts of Brussels, about a mile from where we gather to approve our documents at the European Councils, not only did she not realize what was happening, but in the interview she said something that, personally, impressed me, that if she understood what was happening, had she been helped and if she had some institutions or places of volunteering that could help her to catch and see the signs, her son would not have come to that end. Three months after his departure, a phone call told his parents that the boy, who had changed his name, had died as a martyr. A European citizen, as European citizens, are those who made the attack on Bataclan or on the drafting of Charlie Hebdo. I say this, because the answer to terrorism cannot be simply in a demagogic tweet or in a post published on Facebook, in which it is said that it is enough to close borders, when sometimes we are dealing with people closed within the borders of our suburbs [[Applause from the PD Group]] and within our own human dimensions. That is why, alongside safe investments, we invest in culture. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] That is why, alongside the attention that needs to be devoted to cybersecurity, technology and police forces [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] We need investment in security, in the outskirts, in education and in schools. I think this is one of the key points. I added this passage, because I have reason to believe that we will talk about it during the European Council, although it is not on the agenda, because, in reality, the terrorist threat in Europe is always on the agenda and who underestimates it, reduces it to a topic to be "shooted" in the talk shows, exploits it without having the strength of an organic response, makes the most serious mistake that a politician can make: an error of superficiality and demagogy. I hope, think and believe that, on these points, all political forces can accept the principle that Italy has expressed: a euro in security and a euro in culture, a euro in police and a euro in education [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] I am very happy that, at the last meeting of my political family, that of the Progressive Alliance of European Socialists and Democrats, this was a topic shared by all. I have reason to believe that there is room for sharing with friends of the ALDE and the PPE. I think that, if this were to happen, it would at last be an attempt to present the European response, not only as a security response, but above all as a cultural response. Finally, there is a final point of discussion, that of growth. We are approaching the next European Council with yet another important intervention by the European Central Bank. The European Central Bank and its President are expressing a very serious and far-sighted position, in the interests of Europe and not of a single country. However, we know perfectly well that the dangerous threat of deflation, now at home and living in Italy and Europe, cannot be defeated by monetary means alone. We must have the strength to support the need for a different investment and infrastructure policy and to return money and purchasing power by lowering the tax burden. If we want to recover the challenge of deflation, all we can do is return to investment, both public and private, and reduce the tax burden, especially for families and consumers. As you know, these are the two principles that animate our government's economic policy, even with some discussions here. We have a big investment and infrastructure issue. In recent years Italy has lost positions: until 2006-2007 Italy invested up to 40 billion euros on public infrastructure. We can discuss how much these investments were correct or not, how much need there was of different interventions, but the fact was that Italy invested up to 40 billion euros, while today Italy is positioned more or less in half: 20 billion euros. Clearly this explains first of all the country's need to achieve the growth of others on the basis of GDP. In the transition from 40 billion to 20 billion there is more than one point of GDP that has gone away for a thousand reasons: for example, because, when the cuts were made to local authorities, these, even understandably (we certainly do not have to throw the cross on them) preferred to make cuts on the road to be put back in place of there at three years than on the services, because cutting services creates a problem of consensus. I'm not saying anything particularly visionary, it's reality. It is clear that a municipality with a cut-off of funds prefers to reduce expenditure on investment rather than expenditure on services. It happened to Left, Downtown, Right, Legist Municipalities [[Comments from LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] It is entirely natural and physiological that this happened also because of some bottlenecks in the Italian public administration system: I think of the hydrogeological failure, the Bonifiche, the unfinished works. If you have billions of euros still because you can not start work because for every call for tenders there are three appeals, it is entirely logical and physiological that that money, in theory posted, not be spent. Therefore, the dual operation consists in unlocking the investments and the infrastructural part for the municipalities (this was the operation of 2016 with the substantial end of the Stability Pact) and for the public administration, finally sending to tender as many works as possible. We did not only go to the shipyard of Salerno-Reggio Calabria, but also, for example, to say that the Ionian road 106 must be sent to race immediately, or more correctly it must be unlocked immediately, because in that case there has already been a race. This reasoning also applies to the billions of euros blocked in Sicily on the roads, but also to the hydrogeological failure or the Bonifiche, in some cases even private. This Italian work, which is an absolute priority, is what Europe also needs, which today suffers from the lack of public and private investment that the Juncker plan is trying to unlock, but which would certainly be facilitated by compliance with the rules that other countries should also maintain and set as their goal. If, for example, our German friends were to bring their trade surplus from 7.6 percent to the limit set by the current European legislation of 6%, we would have about 38-40 billion public investment that would certainly help not only Germany, but the whole of Europe. That is why this first element on growth is linked to investment. On the other hand, there is the issue of flexibility. We have already had the opportunity - and I am going to finish - to discuss in our last debate and reply the considerations relating to the fiscal compact, the Stability Pact and the related flexibility. I think it is important that Italy respects the trajectory. I am very proud and proud that this is the year in which Italy not only achieves the best result in terms of deficit over the last ten years - the best - but also that the debt curve, stabilized compared to GDP in 2015, can finally come back to fall from 2016, because this is right. The intensity of this trajectory is considered to be a variable of flexibility. If you adhere to the fiscal compact and follow it as it is, without flexibility, the curve is very steep, but the lack of flexibility leads you to operate interventions that are not surgical, but they are butchery interventions. If, on the other hand, flexibility is affirmed as value, and therefore the trajectory is lowered without changing its direction, it is quite clear that one can afford to do one thing, probably the only one that serves in Italy and Europe, that is, lower taxes, especially for consumers. The eighty euros, the IRAP on labour costs, the operation we did on the IMU and TASI on the first house, but also on the agricultural IMU and the agricultural IRAP, are not commercial operations for electoral purposes, moreover in a context in which, let us reveal this secret, we do not go to elections. This should also be explained: there are electoral ads when there are elections and the next elections, according to the respect of the current legislation (and therefore the President of the Republic will decide), will be in February 2018. From here to 2018 do you know how many people forgot to pay reduced taxes? But flexibility is part of an economic strategy in which taxes must be lowered because, otherwise - that is, without lowering taxes - between the fiscal compact, the choice of a certain economic model and the management of a policy of rigour and austerity, it is quite clear that families do not hold up. And if it is true, as it is true, that in Italy the eighty euros, the IRAP on the cost of labor, the IMU and the TASI on the first house, the agricultural IMU and the agricultural IRAP are realities, it is equally true that the part relative to the fiscal incentives constitutes not an alternative to the jobs act but one of the two columns of the jobs act itself. I read today that it is said that since there is no more 100% contribution, the level of recruitment is lower than that of 2015. Monsieur de La Palice wouldn't have said it better: it's obvious. But also this instrument of fiscal incentive that the previous Government, during this parliamentary term, had tried without success - because the reality must also have the courage to remember it - accompanied by the regulatory incentive, is leading to more jobs. They are still few compared to those who serve, but they are also many more than were expected. All this leads me to say that there is a direction of economic policy indicated by this Government that can be appreciated or not but that, in my opinion, is the direction of economic policy that Italy needs, which Europe needs: reducing taxes and making investments. To reduce taxes you need flexibility because without flexibility, after having made 25 billion spentig review the taxes do not reduce even Merlin wizard. Without flexibility, the reduction of taxes would be impossible. Then there is a major operation on infrastructure. Jean-Claude Juncker was elected on this basis: flexibility and infrastructure. An agreement that the PPE, ALDE and the PSE have seen together. The fact that at the Paris Summit the PSE chose this as the strategy not of Italy, but of the European Socialist Party makes us, in my opinion, stronger in the battle that we will face in the coming weeks, because if anyone thinks that the monthly bazooka maneuver of the President of the ECB will be enough to defeat deflation, he must know that the ECB is doing a great job, but without politics he does not leave; the ECB does a great job but without the European political institutions the Union is finished. And so, from our point of view, let us go to the European Council, yet another, with the strength of the results achieved (the 16 billion flexibility achieved, the changed migration agenda), but at the same time with the awareness that when these issues become shared heritage of Europe, only then, finally, can we start running again. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and AL-A.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u6	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President! I have listened with great interest to the President-in-Office of the Council's speech and it seems strange to me because in the previous speeches which have always been made with a view to the European Council, Renzi had shown us a world that was not really there at this point. During the European Semester, the problem of immigration seemed to have been solved and finally there were 315 billion investments that would have come immediately from the Juncker plan suggested by Renzi. On the other hand, investment is still a serious problem, according to the Premier. I take this opportunity to suggest to the Premier to get rid of maybe these owls that he sees around - that instead should be left in their place - and tell him that when he talks about owls he talks about people that would bring bad luck to our country when in reality who brings bad luck maybe it is just him, because every time he talks about something positive then it does not happen: the investments do not arrive; the occupation does not arrive, and about this we could do something: a good serious confrontation. It is too convenient to go on television with unified networks on all the broadcasts and the news to speak on their own. We offer ourselves - any one of the 5 Star Movement - to talk about numbers. Let us talk about these people: is it true or is it not true that there are or are only changes that cost us the beauty of EUR 12 billion? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Is it true or not that an incentive for employment, especially in the South, for Law No 407 of 1990, was already there? He didn't make anything up. We see, then, that the elimination of Article 18 has given about a third of new contracts compared to those in January last year; not a fall, but a third of the contracts. I would also like to talk about the deficit at 2.7 percent this year: well, it was programmed in its documents, which must have a logic. In the DEF 2014, which you signed, it was programmed at 2%; another thing is the trend that does not change, which I would like to talk to you about, Mr President-in-Office, because Italy grew only by 0.6 in 2015. France grew by twice and Germany by 1.7. That gap between Italy and the rest of the countries of Europe has not stopped. Unfortunately, Europe is even talking about an Italy of Italy that is holding back the economy of the whole of Europe. We should talk about this: real things, because you also welcome Draghi's operation, but it would also be interesting to say that (apart from the fact that it is not the last one, and that Draghi's operations have been going on for quite some time) we will have to issue some 200 billion securities this last year, but 55% of them will be bought again by the ECB. It means we're not there yet for families and businesses. What we should finally bring is a new instrument in Europe, a new instrument that really allows this 80 billion to arrive, because it is impossible to think that EUR 80 billion will be printed per month and that they will not then come to investment or finally lower taxes; but not, as you did, you in favour of the Marchionne of the situation, from large companies. We have to think about small businesses, about the South. For example, with regard to the IRAP operation, you know that for a series of deductions that component in the South was not already paid. There have been robberies on robberies, therefore, from the decontribution to IRAP, to the cohesion and development funds, from which 3.5 billion of the 12 have been snatched, which have served the big companies to make only mere transformations. For the good of our country the 5 Star Movement is and is well present: bring this new instrument, bring true politics in Europe, bring the seriousness and credibility that ask you, because in the letter the European Union asks you to finally make credible announcements. It is not enough to say, as you say, that everything is fine and that Italy is the locomotive of Europe, when in reality, unfortunately, you yourself, with your action - because it is you who governs - is reducing it to Europe's taillight. Our country deserves much more; it deserves as much government action as all citizens are. Just think about the banks, just think about the father of Boschi, just think about the administrators who have cheated the poor citizens! Think of families and businesses, workers and employees: they need help! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u8	Colleagues, we greet the students and students of the State Institute of Higher Secondary Education of the Plain of Lucca of Porcari, in the province of Lucca, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u9	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, next year is the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, which made many people dream: well, we risk celebrating a dramatic failure. As far as immigration is concerned, I would advise you to show your colleagues the interview with the President of Egypt al-Sisi, whose first part has been published today by the newspaper "La Repubblica" and whose follow-up will be published tomorrow, as Director Calabresi announced this morning. I fear that if we do not pay attention to the fact that Europe carries out a genuine immigration policy, we, our children and our grandchildren will have many serious problems. On the economic level, I think it is essential that those countries, like Italy, which consider development more important and those countries, like Germany, which consider it more important to have the accounts in order, dialogue, trying to understand one another's points of view. It is essential for Europe to find high, but realistic and true compromises, and not only to approve documents drawn up just to buy time, for everyone to find themselves as it is written, but without really dealing with the problems. I think that Europe must move forward: we are in the middle of the ford, and if we do not move forward and achieve a truly united Europe, we will prevail, as they are prevailing at the moment, demagogic forces that will hurt all of us. In this regard, Mr President, I am pleased that the Minister for Economic Affairs is also present because I would like to make a comment to the Italian Government: I think that our strength and credibility would be greater if the Government could do what is very difficult to achieve (and I believe that too little has been done). I am referring to the containment of public expenditure, the reduction of waste, the reduction of unnecessary bodies, which are still many, too many and which cannot be reduced. For God's sake, I understand it's not easy, but too much money from the Italian taxpayer is wasted and they disperse in a thousand rivoli that give little to the citizens, little to the country and much to some privileged beneficiary. I believe that if we could achieve something, we would not only lay the foundations for reducing taxes, not in debt, but in fixing the accounts, but also our credibility in making the big voice and in pursuing our demands would be greater. That's what I'm thinking about. I repeat: I am old, I was born when the war began, I celebrated in 1957 the Treaty of Rome, I traveled with my passport, then with an identity card and now I travel freely. I am not going back and none of us must be resigned to the fact that we are going back, because it would be too sad for us, but above all serious and criminal towards our children and our grandchildren. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u10	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Europe has too often ignored the images coming from its borders; they are images of a humanity on the road, seeking shelter from wars and terrorism, which are our own enemies. They are whole families, many elderly, women, children, who leave destroyed cities, broken lives of entire generations of Syrians, Afghans, Libyans, many young people who come from the countries of the Horn of Africa, Sub-Saharan. That same adversity has come to many Europeans, who seventy years ago sought shelter elsewhere, forced to leave their homes in rubble, disemboweled by war and hunger. The most massive migratory flows in human history have been made by Europeans. And if we lose the memory of all this, if we lose the experience of migration, of the reunion between Eastern and Western Europeans, of the South and of the North, we would lose, Mr President, our own identity, the glue and the values that hold us together. Yet this is what is happening. The global challenges are growing and Europe, on the other hand, tends to shrink, close, chasing egoisms, opportunisms; it is that globalization of indifference without social responsibility, about which Pope Francis, almost prophetically, spoke in Lampedusa, a few months before the tragedy of October 3, 2013. There are unbearable inequalities in Europe, which have emptied our democracies; wrong economic policies, because it is now clear that austerity and Europeanism are enemies. This is why the populists and nationalists have had and have played a good role in magnifying the fear of the crisis with the fear of wars, migrations, terrorism: the Le Pen, the Orbán, the Farage, the Salvini, the Grillo [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , that re-emerge that demon of nationalism that we thought defeated in the 1930s, that so much destruction has brought to our continent. Walls and barbed wire will be the end of Europe and without Europe the weakest will be even weaker, the strongest even stronger. The migratory phenomenon we are facing is quite different from what we have experienced in the 1980s and 1990s. The current one is a phenomenon that marks our epoch, is an epochal watershed and has first and foremost a political nature. Just think about what happened only a few years ago, in 2011: the great hopes raised by the so-called Arab Springs, which in the span of just a few months have turned into the drama of the boats that crossed the Mediterranean, managed by slave traffickers, in turn hired by the capataz of the great international criminal organizations. Here, this immigration comes first of all from the crushing of the political order between Mediterranean Africa and the Middle East with its most virulent outbreaks in civil wars in Libya, Afghanistan, Syria, Yemen. Europe cannot ignore anything, not least because Europe and the West have a clear responsibility for what has happened. Today it is up to a new ruling class to redeem mistakes, it is up to a new generation of Europeans to do their part to the full. Europe has for too long pretended not to see, concentrating all its energies towards the Eastern Partnership as if it were possible for Europe to do without the Mediterranean: a Europe without the Mediterranean is not possible. Yet, even after the massacre of 3 October 2013, which we have today in this House made national remembrance and remembrance, Europe was stuttering, despite the fact that hundreds of coffins and some of them were white because they were coffins of children were camping on that plane of Lampedusa. It was Italy's turn then to take a decisive step, to redeem the lost dignity of an entire European continent; to redeem also the ignominy of a law, the so-called Bossi-Fini. And it is also due to two years of this Government's political initiative, starting from the European Semester under Italian leadership, if Europe today begins to have, even if it is still fragile and incomplete, a first nucleus of common immigration policy. Without an immigration policy it is not possible to have a common foreign policy: both are inseparable and fundamental. Europe is making Europe with policies of reception, integration and security, which will give it the moral legitimacy that is essential in order to be able to have the full legitimacy of politics, to impose a solution to conflicts in the Middle East. Much lost ground must be recovered, such as that of the dialogue with Turkey which you referred to. Today, Turkey is an indispensable partner in managing migration, but, as you said, it reiterates certain conditions that are unavoidable, on which we are reminded of important non-governmental organisations: respect for human rights, respect for pluralism and freedom of the press. respect for the prerogatives of the Kurdish minority. And if we have built military successes against ISIS, we must also thank that huge effort that this minority is making. It is also a complicated situation because of the now-conclaimed failure of the rules we have on asylum. We need a European right of asylum, we need to file that Dublin Regulation which prevents refugees arriving from leaving their first place of reception to reach their destinations. And we began to do so with the rule of relocation at the Spring European Councils of a year ago, which also followed a huge tragedy, that of April 2015, off the channel of Sicily, with almost 900 deaths. That distribution means that Dublin must be archived; that distribution must be there immediately because it is still not really seen. It is necessary to cut funds to those countries that do not take refugees by violating the constitutional rule of Europe: to be supportive or not to be. This will also allow return policy, because Schengen and Dublin are contradictory. Then it is right that the Dublin Rules of Procedure should be definitively closed to save Schengen. The African economies in the Mediterranean must also be helped. It is enough an attack that brings with it not only pain, but death and blood, to bend also the economy of nations like Egypt and Tunisia. Then we must put in place policies of cooperation and aid for economic recovery. This is crucial. If those economies start again, it will be a way of curbing flows to Europe. And then, Mr President, I want to say that there is an important Italian example, a first Italian example that can be of school for the whole of Europe. On 29 February 93 Syrians arrived in Italy, in Fiumicino, thanks to the agreement between some NGOs, such as the community of Saint Egidio and the Waldensian church. With the support of the Italian Government a humanitarian corridor opened for the first time that allows to save those who run away from the war with respect to the traffickers of slaves and the dead, to put the States on the side of those who knock and not of those who close the doors, to save those who flee from the war and to help those who have the right and, instead, to repatriate those who do not have that right. This example of a humanitarian corridor, of a bridge to be built, is an example for the whole of Europe. Mr President, the deaths off Lampedusa or Bodrum have died in Europe. Just like the kids at the bottom of the Mediterranean are the same guys who were killed in the Bataclan or in front of the Ankara bus stop. That is why it is important to build security with integration. This is why it is important to focus on culture, on the rehabilitation of the outskirts as the main place of prevention. That is why it is up to us to build a new European ruling class that fights inequality, that manages, in this storm, to keep alive the drive of an open and inclusive society. Mr President, two images in particular have impressed us, especially if we support them. One is the image of Aylan, the lifeless child recovered on the beach of Bodrum a few months ago; and the other is the image of the child, full of life, between the mud of the Tendopolis of Idomeni, between Greece and Macedonia. If we see those images side by side, they strike us particularly. I hope that those images will be protective nudes and that they will accompany the work of the European Council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, so that there is really an effort to ensure that life always wins over the mud. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u12	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u13	Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council complains about the malfunctioning of the European Council to us, sincerely, is of little interest to us. We were interested to know what positions the Italian Government will take in relation to the serious crises it is facing. President Renzi, as usual, said absolutely nothing. The total void. Absolute nothing. It is very sad that he resorted to the expedient of quoting the victims of via Fani and Falcone and Borsellino to snatch some useless applause in a debate that has nothing to do with these events. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I inform the President-in-Office of the Council that at the European Council on 17 and 18 March, further measures will be discussed to address the migration and refugee crisis. In particular, Turkey's demands for cooperation with the European Union in managing these flows will be discussed. What does Turkey ask of the European Union to cooperate? Three billion euros more, after those recently granted; visa liberalisation for Turkish citizens travelling to the European Schengen area; speeding up Turkey's entry into the European Union. These are the three demands and we have heard nothing from the President of the Council on these three points. In our resolution, very modestly, we have made some considerations about these demands. The first is that asking for another three billion, after having just obtained as many, is a clear manifestation of unreliability from the Turkish Government, which is playing upwards without any guarantee that it really intends to cooperate with the European Union in order to limit the migratory flows from Syria and neighbouring countries. At present, Turkey has pocketed the money of European citizens, but it has in no way improved border control. In these early months of 2016, 126,000 migrants arrived in Greece from Turkey. The second consideration is that visa liberalisation from Turkey could represent a further risk of terrorists entering Europe and Italy and should therefore be avoided. In this historical phase it is not simply premature. It would represent a very serious imprudence and irresponsible act. I come to the third point. The request to speed up Turkey's entry into the European Union is simply inadmissible. For the North League it is a priori, but today, under current conditions, it should be for everyone. In the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights and the European Commission - and not the North League - Turkey is responsible for serious shortcomings and violations of human rights protection. In Turkey there is an evident and growing repression of freedom of expression and of the press. The flow through its territory of men and women who intend to join the so-called Islamic State is not controlled, indeed seems tolerated by the Turkish authorities. Turkey is militarily attacking the Kurds who represent the most committed opponents in the fight against ISIS. We would like to point out that, even if Cyprus is a small State of the European Union, respect for it must be protected from other countries, including Italy. In these hours the Turkish authorities have confirmed their unwillingness to recognise Cyprus as an independent and sovereign state. So, President, what are we talking about here? The Turkish Government is absolutely unreliable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The truth is that the Turkish Government is manipulating migratory flows to obtain compensation from the European Union, both economic and political. President Renzi wakes up. The reality of the facts is before everyone's eyes. We allow ourselves a recommendation: do not give any more money from Italian citizens to Turkey. He's already made this mistake. Do not allow yourself to repeat this and stop it, please, with the theater that continues to go to Europe. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] He tells the Italians all the time that he goes to Europe to put his fists on the table, but then explain why he always comes back to Italy empty-handed. He comes back empty-handed because in Europe he has lost all credibility, because no one listens to him anymore. Let us now see how the Italian Government is acting and not Europe. If the European Union's policy on mass migration from Asia is ineffective and irreconcilable, Italy's policy is simply a disaster. For months Europe has been dealing exclusively with the attempt to stem the flow of migrants on the Balkan route. The arrival of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants from Libya no longer deals with it, provided that it has ever dealt with it. It is now established that this is and will remain an Italian problem, aggravated by the advance of ISIS. You, President Renzi, spent 3.3 million euros of Italians in 2015 alone to host tens of thousands of young foreign men in hotels throughout Italy. You, President Renzi, along with your travel companion Alfano, have ordered the prefectures to find another 50,000 accommodations this year and some of your diligent prefects have come to threaten the Italian citizens to requisition their homes because authorized by the Government. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Shame! TOSATO (LN-Aut). But how far do you want to push your madness and arrogance? Mr President, I would like to point out to you that everyone in Europe is blocking borders. Italy risks remaining the last and only destination for all migrants of Africa and Asia because from Greece they will be able to direct only to Albania and from there, by sea, in Italy. They will because they know that in Italy there is a Government of reckless and reckless. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Your watchwords are simple: doors open to all. President, it is not just the twelve senators of the North League who think so because, despite its recent maneuvers to occupy the RAI, the majority of Italians are opening their eyes. They understood that your Government is not facing the migratory emergency that affects Italy; its Government is simply the main responsibility of it. The results of your government's action are before everyone's eyes: migratory flows increase and we are experiencing an endless invasion. The asylum applications, whose process is very slow, are almost all rejected, demonstrating that in the hotel we host illegals and not those who run away from the war. We are the last in Europe to implement the return of those who have no right to remain in Italy and we do not even control the identity of those who arrive in our country, with good peace of the fight against terrorism. Italy's immigration policy is simply a disaster. Your government is a disaster. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Wake up from your dream, because it's a nightmare for Italians. The Italy you describe in this House and even outside every time you speak, it simply does not exist. It's an illusion. Citizens live in the harsh reality, which is made up of fears and insecurities for their future and their families. These are insecurities nourished, as you say, by our supposed and useless alarmism, but by the concrete acts of your government action. Citizens are afraid of losing their jobs or failing to get it. Last year 100,000 Italians emigrated from our country in search of fortune abroad. Citizens are afraid in their homes because the government does not tighten the penalties for criminals, but empties prisons and penalizes those who dare to defend themselves. Italians are afraid of mortgages on the house that are struggling to pay and of a government that makes it easier for the banks to foreclose their homes so that they can cash in. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Citizens are afraid that they will not be able to obtain a decent pension for the infamous Fornero law, voted in 2012 by that Democratic Party of which you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - I remind you - are the national secretary. Citizens are afraid that you will want to get your hands on survivors' pensions and be robbed of life savings, which can disappear from night to morning with a decree from your government. This is the real country we're living in and not the chatter of the word that's leading it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] A word which has not even been elected by the citizens and which continues to sell an unbearable and exhausting optimism absolutely unjustified and illusory. Mr President, I shall conclude. We have once again listened to the long list of all its successes in Italy, Europe and the world. We have done so with the usual patience: that patience that Italians have lost for a long time now. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, allow us one last disinterested council: come back on the ground, if you can, and start to question yourself. We should all do this because there is a lot of suffering outside this building and we, in here, risk forgetting it, or worse, as in your case, not wanting to see it and pretend nothing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u14	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u15	Dear and kind Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am sure that, beyond the existence of problems, which you have rightly denounced, in the course of the next meeting of the European Council, the debate within the institutions, when we have the patience to enter into this matter, is always usefully appropriate. In this sense, I would also like to draw the attention of the President of the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee, my friend Pier Ferdinando Casini, because I would like to provide some useful elements of merit that his awareness tomorrow, in the course of the European Council meeting, allows us not to meet yet another deception on the issue of migration. What I want to stress is that the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano, said on 10 March last that there was no evidence of the opening of a new Adriatic route for the migration of asylum seekers. Here, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on 27 January (so not 10 March), in the Senate Defence Commission, the general commander of KFOR, the Italian Guglielmo Luigi Miglietta, said: The second threat is linked to the enormous flow of migrants to which the Balkan peninsula is subjected. (...) The risk therefore presents itself as twofold: migrants could enter from the south (from Macedonia), in case Serbia were to decide to close its southern border; but they could also - and above all - enter from the east, i.e. from the Serbian borders, if other states in the north of the peninsula were to follow the example of Hungary and Croatia, preventing transits. In fact, migrants would be stuck in reception centres in Serbia and this could lead them to try the shortest route for Europe: the one that, through Kosovo, arrives in Albania and from there, reopening the Adriatic route, in Italy. Here, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like you to tell us in your reply whether the Government is aware of this detail. Is it true what the Minister of the Interior says, that there is no evidence of an Adriatic route that will take asylum seekers from Albania to Italy, or is it true what the commander of KFOR says? Moreover, the commander of KFOR, that is the commander of a NATO contingent, says he has received instructions and orders also from the political point of view. In fact, Commander Miglietta says: "The action (...) has resulted in the request to the participating countries" - he is talking about the NATO countries - "of political support for possible humanitarian assistance actions, which would not be closely included in the tasks assigned to the multinational force." Miglietta, that is, says in the hearing that NATO has had indications to speed up the path of migrants, even making available the means of NATO, which causes some problems in the contingent - because the military missions of some countries have caveats that prevent them from transporting civilians - and has received these orders from the political levels of NATO. Then I ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: are you aware of this by sitting at the European table? And are you aware that the Italian Government may have absent from this strategy, which further exposes our country to the flow of asylum seekers? With what awareness will you sit at the table tomorrow and what will you ask the Member States of the European Union? What precise points will it put forward, so that there is no risk that, in terms of responsibility and in any case misunderstanding about a strategy that should involve the European Union and Turkey, everything will not fall on Italy's shoulders instead? I believe that this substantial contribution is clearly intended to ensure that we are not faced, as usual, with an agreement which we consider to be sublime - such as that on quotas - and which is then completely ignored by the other partners. And I say this because on one thing you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are absolutely right: the real damage to Europe is not done by Eurosceptics, but by those who say they are Euro-convinced and behave like Euro-cretins. In this way we systematically destabilize the credibility of the European Union, and above all we become unbelievable to our citizens. At this stage of the debate, before the explanation of vote, I wanted to be able to put this passage to your attention, because I believe that from a strong judgment of the Government on this matter we can also articulate our opinion on your communications. I remind you, from this point of view, that in the conclusion that you will have to draw tomorrow, as the European Council, on the agreement with Turkey cannot be put aside not so much what happens on the Balkan route (understood as a path that leads from Greece to Austria), because it was precisely blocked, but what will happen if there is a slight deviation to the left and, if you arrive in Albania, Montenegro and from that moment to Italy, putting our country once again in the condition of being the scapegoat of a situation in many ways incredible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u16	We greet the students, students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education (Federigo Enriques) in Castelfiorentino, in the province of Florence, who are following our works [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u17	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the President-in-Office tell us that the European Council meets every fifteen days and that the results of those meetings are zero, that there is a malfunction of method and merit and that the method, in these cases, is essential. I wonder, therefore, Mr President-in-Office, what he is doing at those meetings. She's not a follower, but she's a protagonist. So you should come here and tell us: "We will go ahead, we will make these proposals and we will get these results." Then, thank God, since the numbers have no political color, if we talk about migrants, I can remind you a few numbers: in 2012 there were 13,267 arrivals. Of course, then the conditions changed, but according to the Viminal data, in 2015 there were 153,842 arrivals. What does our country do, Mr. President? You claim the success of the relocations? I'd like to read a statement from July 2015, and then I'll tell you who released it: It's a first step. We have completely covered the first year that concerns the first 20,000 relocations planned between Italy and Greece. And later on, it's still said. In six months' time, the situation will resume, to see if the initial target, which was 40,000, can still be achieved. The one who issued the statement was the Minister of the Interior of your Government. Do you know what the data is? I would, of course, appeal to the President-in-Office of the Council. In February 2016, Italy's relocations, according to the European Commission, were 279. According to this morning's figures, there were 973 relocations between Italy and Greece. That is why those meetings are of no use: our Government does not achieve any results. Nobody! What, then, does anyone who comes here without a job? Either he falls victim to black labor, or enters the circuit of chronic assistantism, which is evidently so dear to the left-wing government, or goes to crime. Meanwhile, our cities have become large parking lots for European desperation, because the arrivals do not stop, the data are constantly increasing and - as we have said - the relocations are equal to zero. This is not populism and it is not demagogy. It is populism and it is demagogy - and I am truly sorry - when you come to this House and do not really deal with the issues [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] She tells us about Falcone and Borsellino and it makes me stand up when I hear those names, but today the themes are different. I want a country looking forward and you must have the courage to look forward and tell us why these numbers don't change. In July 2015, 20,000 relocations were promised, but eight or nine months later, 973, with a government that doesn't do anything, that doesn't matter in Europe and meanwhile other countries take other solutions. I remind you of the geographical conditions of Italy, with the three quarters of the country that are coastal: these are difficult conditions. You have a duty to do - and not just to tell us - something for our citizens, because the separation between institutions and citizens does not happen because you find yourself every fifteen days - as you tell us - to do nothing, as it seems, but it happens because they go around our cities, in our squares and in the stations, and people, when it's okay - I use euphemism - are constantly disturbed. This government does nothing and does not even get what should have been the only great success in the migratory field, which is that of relocations. So, I expect answers in this sense, because numbers have no political color. The time available does not allow me to enter into economic matters as well, but there is a smile on the tax burden, because the ways of tax pressure, Mr President, are different. Just apply excise duties on wines and, of course, producers then change the costs and... (The President of the Council converses with a senator.) I'm sure the President listens to me. I am also prepared to shut up if it is more important for a senator to speak to the President-in-Office of the Council, because I understand that this is a crucial moment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I demand, however, the respect that I give you, when we listen carefully. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. You're talking to me? MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). I'm not just telling her, I'm telling the others. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. The President of the Senate is here. MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). I'm telling you, because I'm sure you understand what I'm saying. The President of the Senate plays his role. Instead of addressing the President of the Senate, I turned to her. We listen carefully and intervene here. And I would like to remind you with a smile, Mr President-in-Office, that we were elected, while you were designated, which is different. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and LN-Aut.]] I therefore urge you to use the courtesy of listening to the Venetian voters who elected me to Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u18	Senators are also disturbing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u19	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. President, you're right. You see that I say that with a smile, but I am pleased to speak and, therefore, to report the demands of our voters. As I come to the conclusion, I would remind you that, with regard to economic data and the tax burden, there would be a great deal to discuss and I hope that we will do so in the near future. In this country the tax pressure does not increase and the relationship between our tax pressure and our GDP is above 43%. In this sense, Italy is in fifth place in Europe. Since you always say that you want Italy to lead Europe, I would like it to be first, but starting from the reverse scale: not among the countries with the highest tax burden imposed on families and businesses, because in this way the economic recovery will not be [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u20	Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to stress and, therefore, appreciate the unusual attitude of a President-in-Office of the Council who feels obliged to come and report and listen to Parliament on the eve of every European meeting. For a long time the European agenda has always understood the same problems, on which we must frankly say that there have been no significant progress, but even backward steps, with a dangerous stalemate that is likely to worsen the situation. The fundamental political point is always the same: without a Europe with a cohesive and clear political strategy both in the field of migration and economics, a vacuum can be opened up to be occupied by those more extremist and populist political forces, both right and left, as we saw in Germany a few days ago. So, today, Europe is facing a crossroads: either it is able to promote economic development on the one hand and, on the other, to be able to govern and manage the economic crisis, or inevitably it will prevail the political forces that bet on the failure of the single currency and the historic project of the united Europe. I believe that Italy in Europe has the cards in order more than all other governments, because from the beginning it has been able to deal with the issue of migrants with great seriousness. He did so by putting before the whole fundamental principle of saving lives, even when Europe turned its head on the other side, leaving us alone to face an immense drama. We know that only when the problem of migrants directly invested in Central Europe did it really become part of the European agenda with the consequent call for solidarity. Yet, despite this, we are still here, standing still, with the risk of a stalemate and even of taking irreparable steps backwards, as could be the suspension of the Schengen Treaty. Similarly, on economic issues, I believe that Italy has shown a coherent and serious line. In particular, your Government, Mr President, has begun to carry out important, structural and necessary reforms for the country, but always pointing out that austerity alone policy not only does not work, but risks exacerbating the problems of the economic crisis. Therefore, we must certainly put the state's accounts in order, but this also applies to the budgets of the companies and families that suffer, and of course this is linked to economic development, which can only be achieved through the relaunch of investment and the reduction of taxes. Therefore, it is right and necessary to consolidate and even try to achieve greater flexibility, which does not mean having unbalanced accounts, but having the right autonomy to make choices for new investments in order to restart the engine of the economy. I believe that if this is not understood and it does not become Europe's goal, we will all lose. The populist forces will not win either, because their battle is without a future. The world's problems today can only be tackled with a supranational entity like the one we have been trying to build since the post-war period. So there is no alternative to a united Europe, but it must be a Europe that works, a Europe that can give concrete answers. And I believe that Italy, Mr President, can be the protagonist of this change of course, even of this rebirth of Europe. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that we can and must only work on this perspective, outside of which there is only a return to the past and policies that are destined to fail in a global context which is now increasingly difficult and tight. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u22	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u23	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, an interesting question, which I think deserves your reply, has already been put to you by my colleague, Senator Mauro, concerning the closure of a Balkan route which risks reopening the anguish of an Adriatic route which could be repeated in the coming weeks. I believe, however, that it is above all appropriate not to lose sight of its initial consideration. When from one summit to another, for four weeks, the solution to the problems is only partial and there is a feeling of permanent delay, precisely at the next European Council, there is something that does not work institutionally in the construction of Europe. Mr Carraro, with great bitterness, even spoke of the failure of a sixty-year period of Europeanism. For your part, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it seemed to me that the expression'vetocracy', derived from intelligent publicity, is the one that best suits you, but I have the impression that this is not the case. Migration is an emergency emergency. What sense does it make, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, to be filled with words this morning and to be bold by flaunting rhetoric and moralism about some noble episodes re-enacted in a beautiful film, "Fuocoammare" - you, President of the Council, paid tribute to your colleagues at the last European Council - and then try to erase the images of the latest news from memory? Europe has not even managed to build a newly decent tent city at the border with Macedonia. So, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in addition to Mr Mauro's question, I would like to ask another question: what happened to that document by the Italian Minister of the Interior and the German Minister of the Interior, about which we have heard on horseback with the last European Council? The ministers Alfano and de Maizière were addressing Europe, addressing you, Merkel. Of course, they are ministers of the sector, but their document was infinitely more clearly political than so many rhetorics of mass moralism to which it happens to abandon itself even in these classrooms. In my view, the document of the Ministers of the Interior proposed a possible and credible path to resuscitation of Schengen. What is the credible and possible way to resurrect Schengen? This is what Alfano and de Maizière were talking about: it would be a matter of transforming Frontex into a sort of European border police; it would be a matter of disregarding the country of entry when setting redistribution quotas between individual countries. This, Mr Verducci, means going beyond accounting ("Dublin 1, 2002, approval; there was the Letta Government or there was already the Renzi Government," and so on). If we succeed in resurrecting Schengen in this way, by setting quotas that prescind from the country of entry, we will be able to build something European and European. However, inevitably, the initiative of Alfano and de Maizière was directed to the Polish President, Donald Tusk, and not to the real interlocutor. The real interlocutor is outside Europe and it is Turkey of Davutoğlu, of Erdogan, if you like; that Turkey to which Merkel's policy, tomorrow, is somehow obliged. It will be a question of asking for a readmission of migrants from Greece to Turkey in exchange for the resettlement of Syrian refugees from Turkey to Europe. It's a way to limit the mess. Verducci, slowly, slowly with rhetoric: the Italian reception of the 93 Syrians is praised, but there are 93. See that Turkey hosts 2.5 million of them - in conditions far from indecent. That is why Turkey's problem inevitably comes on the European agenda. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, no one is more sensitive than me to the indispensable European values, especially the British and French, of freedom of the press, but freedom of the press is linked to the continuity of parliamentary freedom. When the parliamentary regime in Turkey took its first steps; when Turkey, strong in the Western loyalty with which it had been in NATO - they had called themselves the Bulgarians of NATO (it was quite unpleasant and wrinkled) - knocked on Europe, Europe said no, and told it overwhelmedly. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have been muffled over that affair, but there is a protagonist in that affair, and he is the then President of the European Commission, because Erdogan was not yet President of the Council, but only Secretary of the Party. The President of the European Commission was Professor Prodi, who said, not so bonally - my grandmother said - that that was a country too close to the United States and Israel, while those friendships were the best attitude to Europe and to Turkey's entry into Europe. Since then Turkey, which has been rejected, has changed completely politically in a sort of flight from the West, whose attitude with Israel is the litmus test. If we want to reopen a speech with the so-called Bulgarians of NATO, we can only do so in the name of Western solidarity. And, therefore, we cannot show that we do not remember when, in the days of the controversy about American intervention in Iraq, President Prodi, with arrogant conviction, wanted to close the door to Turkey's entry into Europe and provoke a change of shoulder by Turkish politics. We must tell the Turks, in a spirit of friendship, that that change of shoulder was a failure: you would have been a great European country, as in Kemal Atatürk's dream, and you reduced yourself to the rank of a small power of Eastern ban in the Mediterranean. Well, I believe that these are things to be thought about in the next few days. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u24	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u25	President Renzi, I would like to begin by saying, first of all, that the commitment we have made, of which we have had the opportunity to read this morning in the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" in the interview given by the Egyptian President al-Sisi, is, in our opinion, a step forward in the search for the truth about the barbaric murder of Giulio Regeni. We are, however, still far from that result, which will only be achieved if the Italian Government is inflexible in demanding that the perpetrators of that crime be identified and punished at all costs. Also because, President Renzi, I don't think you will have missed that, in the long interview, the Egyptian President is well guarded from naming the word "tortura", whose practice has instead been established by the autopsy carried out in Italy, as it is known and as it emerged today in the meeting that we had with the parents of Giulio Regeni in the Human Rights Commission of the Senate. There are many urgent issues on which - in our view - the next Council of Europe should have the courage to point out a new direction, radically opposed, inverse to the disastrous one that has been followed in recent years, particularly on economic issues. It is no longer possible - in our view - to revise the European Treaties, starting with the fiscal compact. We must overcome austerity and we must not do it timidly, but really, with the same determination and drasticness with which it has for years been badly imposed. I remember very well the deafening silence that we felt when few voices tried, in those years, to oppose that sort of unique dominant thought. And that is precisely why I would like to keep saying clearly that we think that there would be all the numbers in this Parliament to remedy the dramatic mistake made by introducing into our Constitution the balance of the budget and, if this is not the case today, it is by political will and not because there is not a sufficient majority to be able to remedy what, in words, everyone considers, in fact, a dramatic error. I would like to add with a joke, Mr Renzi, because then I will concentrate on a specific point of your speech, that on the more general field of economic policy we - as you know well - make a very different judgment from yours, precisely with regard to the main measures of your Government, which we believe have been harmful or at least ineffective. And we are a little dismayed at the figure of -40 percent of the stable assumptions in January 2016, compared with the percentage we compared with in January 2015. Well, I would really like to talk about a flop act more than a job act! Faced with these fundamental and urgent issues, I think it would be useful to take a somewhat more serious look at the years of your government, but I will not do so today, because I would like to focus on another subject that everyone's conscience makes us seem even more urgent. That land - and I am talking of immigration, of course - is what we will really have to prove if the European Union is a step forward or a step backwards in terms of the collective civilization of our continent. This phenomenon, which we very often, too quickly, call emergency and which instead - as some other senator said this evening, and I am happy with it - is a historical event of epochal character, can only be faced at an appropriate level, and not with the policies of small cabotage and buffering with which we have faced. In view of this need which the reality, with its indomitable force, confronts us, the words we hear in the public debate - for example those spoken by the President of the European Council, Tusk, on 7 March, after the meeting of the Heads of State and Government of the European Union with Turkey - appear - in our opinion - not simply inadequate, but also very disturbing. Tusk said that all decisions send a very clear message: the days of illegal immigration to Europe are over. Really that phrase seems to recall a real change of pace; an idea that no longer distinguishes itself among those who run away and for what reason. The idea that we want to represent is that everyone today flees from war or hunger is considered, regardless, a kind of enemy to reject, in an approach that is not only inhumane for the principles (on which, moreover, the Union is founded), but that is also illusory, probably even suicidal compared to what happens in the world. The Schengen agreements have been demolished in practice and become more and more so every day. The same closed border forces many human beings to mass under conditions that cover this continent of shame every day more. I do not know and, therefore, I ask you: how can a civilization consider itself such when it attends impassible and changes to a scene like that that happens every day in Macedonia, with thousands of people rejected towards Greece, with the same methods that are used only for cattle? The selfishness of the fortress Europe not only affects migrants, but also affects border states, for example Greece, the same one that, after being strangled by austerity from Europe, is now abandoned by Europe and is condemned to manage practically alone a pressure that would be unmanageable for any state. Of course, the same applies also to Italy, which is experiencing a similar situation even if, fortunately, at least in numbers, less dramatic and less tragic. The figures speak for themselves, we know them well and we have told them: since the beginning of the year 141,000 migrants have landed in Europe; of these 132,000 have reached Greece and only 9,000 our country. But the data isn't just that. The other tragic fact is that the victims in the Mediterranean have already been 444: a massacre, Mr President, continues and infinite. In the face of this tragedy, the only way out that civil and democratic Europe has been able to imagine is an agreement with the Turkish regime; a regime which, especially on the ground of human rights, offers no guarantee, or rather offers only one: those rights will not be respected. I want to say here - and I have done so many times already - in no uncertain terms that the agreement with the Erdogan regime is unacceptable. In the next two days, the Council will ratify an agreement giving the Turkish regime another EUR 3 billion, twice as much as it has already agreed, and will accept, in exchange for this, that it will close its eyes to the systematic violation of democratic freedoms in Turkey and the massacre of the Kurdish people; that same Kurdish people, which - as we know well - has long been the only outpost of struggle and resistance to Daesh and to what has happened in that area in recent years. I think that this strategy - and I think it must be made clear - is not only fierce and inhuman, but also totally useless. And even on this front, a radical strategic reversal would really be imposed. We have been asking for this since time immemorial: humanitarian corridors must be opened immediately. Every day that passes is a dramatic day inside this story. The Union must ensure real and tangible support for the countries that constitute the external borders of the Union. We have said many times in this House that it is urgent to grant residence permits for humanitarian reasons and that we cannot leave it to the individual national governments to decide on the granting of the right of entry into their territory for refugees. To Hungary, Macedonia, Slovenia, Sweden, Denmark, Austria, all those countries that make the closure of borders the only strategy, it should be made clear that this really amounts to putting themselves out of Europe and European civilization, because it means rejecting the constituent principles of the identity and mission that we wanted to give ourselves in the past years. I believe that if Europe moves in this direction, it will save thousands of lives and also save the indispensable principle of defence always and in any case of human dignity, and it will also save itself. If President Renzi defends these principles in the coming days, in the coming weeks and months, despite the very deep dissensions that divide us from him on the work of his Government and despite the many considerations that we have heard today (just think about what he said about Italicum or constitutional reform), regardless of whether we are a force of opposition, he will obviously have our full support on a point like this. When we talk about the democratic, political, social and moral civilization around which our continent was born, I think that the general interest must always come before the particular one. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u26	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u27	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have heard many speeches and reflections that I share. At this point, however, I think I must be a little unusual in the short speech that I will make, trying not to repeat all the intelligent considerations - not all of them were intelligent, but many yes - that I have heard, but to get to the heart of the matter. I was a little impressed by the President of the Council when he told us that it is the third European Council that takes place in a month and this raises a problem for the functioning of the European institutions. How can you not agree with him? But I fear that the problem today is different: there is no longer just an obvious problem of the functioning of the institutions. Here there is a dramatic crisis in Europe; there is a dramatic fall in those ideal values and in that political plan that our Fathers of the Homeland have placed at the centre, together with the Atlanticism, of the genetic data of our Republic. The real risk - I say this for the young people who follow the debate from the forums - is that Europe, which we and the founding fathers have assured the generation of Erasmus, is now forced to show its passport from Italy to Germany and Austria. So this is no longer a problem of operation: it is a dramatic political problem that you can answer by having a crossroads ahead of you. You can invoke a path, which is that of someone who thinks he saves his conscience by saying "We said so," and you would objectively, beyond some forgetful friend who spoke earlier, have some papers in order to say this. It has been for years - for example - that we have been saying about Turkey the things you have mentioned. We have been saying for years that if there is no external border control, internal borders will be recreated. We have been saying yes to hotspots for years but they go hand in hand with relocation. It is true, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we could say that we had said that, but I doubt that in this way we will save something more than our conscience. The other way you have is to take responsibility for it. Because the European building is falling down here. You cannot save your conscience; you are a leader who plays a very important role in the socialist family and we have a European EPP family working with the socialists. You, Mr President, have only one path, if you want to live up to the history and mandate that our Parliament has given you: you must try to avoid the European disaster by co-managing with Mrs Merkel the reconstruction of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, these days' newspapers are full of the description of Mrs Merkel's difficulties. I am distressed by this. I am withdrawn from one of the countries of the so-called Visegrad group, from the Czech Republic, to which attention should also be paid (and today I know that Minister Gentiloni is there), because it is a Republic that is in a situation that presents many elements of similarity with ours. Coming from that part of Europe, I am distressed that there are so many fools who are pleased with the difficulties of Merkel. Colleagues, the difficulties of Merkel are the difficulties of Europe. If it does not hold up Germany and if it does not hold up the great coalition in Germany, we will go to the catastrophe. And we must be grateful to the German Chancellor, who in recent months has said what European conscience and European rulers no longer had the courage to say, namely that humanity and the constituent values of Europe sometimes come before the interests and low political speculations. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Colleagues, the fork is now a fork from which you do not go back. Either European rulers try to earn some votes by speculating on people's fear or have the ability to do what Helmut Kohl did when he established the mark's parity. There was no equality of the mark between East and West Germany and everyone was against it, from the German Central Bank to the workers' and trade unions' organizations, but Kohl established the same mark, and so saved the unity of Germany and Europe. I don't care about the dynamics that can lead you out of that room tomorrow by saying who's right and who's wrong. I demand that the President-in-Office of the Council of my country, if he is a political leader in Europe who wants to express the same overwhelming force that he had in Italy (some people like him and others feel sorry for him: I am of a generation that, after all, could draw not only pleasures from this event), he must live up to this challenge. Honestly, France isn't here. We love France, we love it very much. But today we feel, in the relationship between Germany and France, that there is a lack of that Italian harmony which must lead our President-in-Office of the Council to take Mrs Merkel's hand and, together, the axis of the European Socialist Party and that of the European People's Party in the reconstruction of Europe. If Schengen falls, Europe falls. We must face up to a reality of selfishness for which we too have responsibilities. How many times have we said, in the face of unpopular choices, we political leaders of our countries, that we did that reform because Europe asked for it. This attitude was profoundly wrong... [[Comments of the Divine Senator.]] Friends of the League, see that you too have been in the government for at least 15 years of the last 20 years. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Ruvolo]] And today, suddenly, you realize that everything is wrong. You have handled the Ministry of the Interior and today all the faults are of Alfano. But you're Alice in Wonderland, my boys! Therefore, either we understand that this road has no alternative or we are really finished. [[Comments of the Divine Senator]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u28	Divine Senator, don't interrupt anyone who speaks.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u29	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Of course, there would be many other reflections on the Balkan route. It is all too clear that we must make this agreement with Turkey. I am glad that the President-in-Office of the Council of my country has said that this agreement must not force us to sell our souls and I believe that his statement after last European Council has made many people jump, because it really seemed that we were going to the end-of-season sales. After that, we need Turkey at least as much as Turkey needs us. So, in the end, we're gonna give the game a tie. We must now put the issue of the Mediterranean firmly in place. How many times have we said that without a Mediterranean policy there would be only trouble? And, indeed, it is. All the troubles are coming to us from the Mediterranean. I think it is very good, for example, that the President of the Republic is in Africa right now, as I think it is good that you went there because that means that we understand the reality. When a continent sails between al-Shabaab, Boko Haram and al-Qaeda competing with ISIS and everyone in Africa pushes on this stream of desperate to our shores, it is clear that if we do not pacify Africa we will have a Mediterranean on fire and we will be able to do nothing to avoid it. The meaning of my heartfelt intervention is then this: we believe that the Italian Government - certainly, Italy is not a superpower, but is one of the great European countries and is one of the founding countries and the Government of our country is stronger than many other governments - must help, especially in the direction of a renewed relationship between Italy and Germany, to those who propose to be the alternative to the collapse of Europe. When we break Europe, so many people who foolishly made the noise will understand that those who are most penalized by this perspective are precisely the Mediterranean axis and our country in the foreground. Today we are defending ideals that coincide with our interests and we want our Government to do so with the renewed support of Parliament. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u30	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our Premier, when I speak, gets up and always leaves. Mr. Renzi, I'm offended. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He has some physiological needs that he has made known to the Presidency. We can't suspend the session. FACTORS (M5S). I'm sorry they come up when the Five Star Movement speaks, but let's just let it go. [[Applause from Senator Mangili]] Our President-in-Office of the Council, when he comes to talk about the European Council, unfortunately speaks of anything else and often does so by bringing out stories on which we can actually stand up and express our solidarity. He told us about Borsellino and Falcone and Aldo Moro, but perhaps our President of the Council is young and does not remember that the leader of his party Zanda was the press officer during the kidnapping of Moro, while our former President Napolitano is very educated regarding the negotiation between State and Mafia. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, perhaps if he had dinner with these two subjects he would have some indication of what happened in those years when he was a child; perhaps they have something to tell him. Or it could make sure that Parliament investigates this issue. I would remind you that there is the Commission of Inquiry into Aldo Moro and that our President-in-Office of the Council can very well speed it up and help us to clarify these state crimes and certainly not Islamic terrorism, which should be the subject of this European Council. Once again, we are dealing with two issues that are often discussed at the European Council: the economic crisis and the migration crisis. The reason we are always talking about these things is because the solutions found in Europe and by governments are completely unsatisfactory. In particular, let us remember one thing for those who accused us of wanting to put barbed nets and wires, while for us no one must remain behind, therefore, do not mention us when you talk about racism, that you have made money on immigrants as if it were drugs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, the migration crisis has brought to light Europe's moral collapse. I would remind you that the European Union has more than 500 million inhabitants and in 2015 we received only 1,200,000 asylum seekers. These are small numbers for this European Union, which should be the cradle of solidarity. For these small numbers, we have seen governments calling for the abolition of fundamental rules and principles in the European Union, such as the free movement of persons. The Schengen Agreement has been called into question for these issues, which is simply shameful. The results of the last meeting of the European Council give the image of a stalemate in the European Union. Without prejudice to the usual statements of principle and the usual circumstances, everything has been postponed to this meeting, and I would have liked to hear President Renzi talk about what he intends to say and not about mourning, mafia and state crimes. But, patiently, this is what the house offers: no one elected him and unfortunately we must keep him. In fact, with regard to the immigration agreement that is being signed at the next European Council meeting, it seems to me that the only intelligible thing that Prime Minister Renzi said during his speech is that he will say yes to Turkey's blackmail. This is very serious, because the agreement we are about to sign is to make a devil's pact with Turkey. Never before is Turkey far from the democratic principles that should inspire our Europe. What we are about to do is to delegate the dirty work - a Syrian for a Syrian - to a country like Turkey, which has never been far from the democratic principles that inspire the European Union and is blackmailing Europe, which is on its knees. In return for this innocible pact, Turkey would like to speed up the process of accession to the European Union. Not to mention the request for visa liberalisation, which - in order to understand what Prime Minister Renzi is going to accept - would allow Turkish citizens not yet members of the European Union to move freely within our territory, without any control by the Community authorities. Turkey - and we must say this - is not Europe, however, as demonstrated by the continuing violation of fundamental rights: the assault on freedom of the press, the burning homes of the HDP party, the repression of free demonstrations, the arrests and tortures of political leaders, the Twitter blockade, which our President-in-Office so much likes. Mr. Renzi, you couldn't use Twitter in Turkey. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I also recall the compromised freedom of expression and the bombing of Kurdish villages. We are not just crying about the children who arrive on our territory, but also about those who are killed by the bombings of the Turks. Then there is the well-founded suspicion that Erdogan is soft with ISIS, with the hope of weakening the Syrian Kurds. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my question is as follows: do you accept this pact with the Turks, but what guarantee can this country give in managing the last of the last? We are in fact entrusting to him immigrants, desperate people and children, who she so much cries when she comes here. We are entrusting these people to a country that does not guarantee freedom of the press and human rights. Moreover, Turkey is an unfaithful ally, as evidenced by repeated violations of the customs agreement with the European Union, the blockade at the borders of TIR and European goods, the unjustified increase of customs duties, the closure of Italian companies and the protectionist policy practiced by the Government. Erdogan claims, but does not shake hands and uses refugees to get European money, while Lebanon and Jordan do not blackmail anyone and host millions more refugees than Turkey. The time available to me is running out, and so I cannot extend my speaking time by describing the commitments of our motion for a resolution, which will certainly have the opportunity to read and which we will be able to discuss. However, I would like to remind you that if these immigrants flee, they do so because of the weapons we sell them. We, France and Germany: it is we who created this disaster and the only intelligent thing that can be done is to establish the arms embargo on Saudi Arabia, so that the dignity of these peoples is truly respected, preventing them from being killed by our weapons. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u33	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, our President-in-Office of the Senate occasionally, with great punctuality, reproaches us when, as a matter of course, we go out of the question. However, you did not interrupt it today; you had to talk to us about the Council of Europe and you spoke to us about something else. He spoke to us about internal policy, economics and infrastructure, all of which are absolutely important, but absolutely out of the question. So I ask you, Mr Grasso, to use the same treatment for all the members of this House and for all the representatives of the Government. We have learned nothing of what our Government is preparing to do at the next Council of Europe. Is the Council of Europe a ritual, and is this meeting also a ritual? Let us then review our calendars, because I believe that this can be important. I would like to give you two very small ideas, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, since it is going to defend and discuss the interests of Europe, but within those interests it is going to defend Italian interests. Please ensure that the European Commission blocks imports of olive oil from Tunisia without duty. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] You see, there has been talk of Mediterranean cooperation. Mediterranean cooperation with developing countries cannot be done on the part of Italian and southern farmers in particular. Since we are talking about the most varied things, because we are not talking about Europe, then we are talking mainly about this. This decision taken by the European Commission has a profound impact on the interests of our agriculture. I could mention one hundred and many other cases of distraction of the Italian Government, when it discusses the essential problems of our country's economy in Europe. You spoke of infrastructure in the Mezzogiorno, but you forgot that with the Stability Act for 2015 you authorized the use of four and a half billion structural funds for the Mezzogiorno, intended for structural operations, in order to facilitate the decontribution (which is not fiscal but social security) on new recruitments, which today has allowed you to mention a few figures, but which in three years' time will lead us to the results of an employment bubble, since those facilitated recruitment forecasts are not linked to any mechanism for stabilizing the same jobs. So we can talk about everything and more. Today, then, time is very short. I hope that at the next meeting, however, you will address from the point of view of migration, since it addresses the issue of further funding for Turkey, the unsolved question of the migrant clause, for which we have committed a number of denarii; you have used part of those commitments to be able to finance certain activities under the Stability Act. What happened to the migrant clause? What happened to the last note that the European Union sent us about last year's stability law? We have asked the Minister for Economic Affairs to report urgently to the Budget Committee on these events. These are certainly very important subjects, but they have not even been touched on here. We have heard of a number of things that have been done, in our opinion clumsily and positively, but we have not heard of the judgment and the repercussions that these things have, above all, on the economic sector and on European economic policy. I have to close. Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I hope that this debate on internal matters can be dealt with in the appropriate forum, so with the announcement due in accordance with our timetable. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cociancich. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u35	Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his communication. The migration issue represents a great threat to Italy and the European Union and, at the same time, a great opportunity. The threat is to allow the political forces that have a project that is contrary to and opposed to a stronger integration of the Member States to take advantage of and exploit a great humanitarian tragedy with a planetary dimension, to attack, corrode, break up, break up the European institutions, grow new fences, erect walls and barbed wire and, above all, re-introduce trade barriers, obstacles to free trade and the free movement of people, reactivate protectionist economic policies and customs barriers, in the belief that the crisis can come out better on its own, perhaps by restoring a national currency and making use of the shortcut of devaluation, as at the time of the lira. In other words, we want to try the path of international competition not through the solidity of a production plant, the intrinsic quality of the goods and products we produce, the efficiency of the administrative and judicial apparatus, but through the "dopated" policy of the artificial devaluation of the currency and, therefore, of prices. This is the real political objective pursued by the anti-European forces, which are not by chance the same ones that today are opposed, with arguments based on fear and resentment, to any policy that aims to regulate migratory flows. For them it is worth the saying "so much worse, so much better" because the short-term dividends of political speculation appear clear to them, which allows us to gain consensus, using precisely the feelings of loss and legitimate concern, which many of our fellow countrymen feel, in the face of a humanitarian tragedy of such vast proportions. It is no wonder that it is the same political forces that in the past years, by ruling the institutions of the European Union from the right, have weakened their ability to react, have favoured bureaucratic sclerosis, have reduced the budget to the bone; in other words they have favored and even determined its apparent decision-making paralysis and shortsightedness on the strategic vision to be adopted, in order to face such a complex situation, such as that of migrations and macroeconomic imbalances between the different areas of the North and the South of the world. The calculation of these political forces, which, as we have also seen today, entrust their propaganda mainly to the insult, to the ridicule, to the personal offense, to utter and vulgar expressions, is a short-sighted calculation, which damages the interests of our country. They make themselves allies, I do not know to what extent aware, of those political and financial forces, well placed in some industrial districts of North Europe, which they would like to assign to the countries of the Mediterranean shore, such as Italy, Spain and Greece and some Balkan countries, a mere function of filter, a vast territory destined simply to retain and disperse the waves of migrants coming from the Maghreb and North African countries. In other words, we want to transform Italy, which would obviously be excluded from the euro and Schengen zones, into a kind of Turkey or Libya; in short, into a buffer zone, capable of protecting the well-functioning and rich economies of the northern European countries. This political project, not even so veiled by forces that, also because of the weakness and inanity of our previous governments, in all other affairs occupied, have methodically taken control of all the levers of control and government of the European institutions, today finds unexpected support in those national political forces, that having failed to divide Italy, they would like to divide Europe; a kind of fifth column, the useful fools who willingly lend themselves to help make our country an insignificant and marginal political reality. If, therefore, we are today opposed to this policy which wants to disintegrate Europe, which intends to exploit the tragedy of migrants in order to disintegrate the European institutions and re-introduce borders, it is not out of naive goodness, but because we are deeply convinced that the strengthening of the European Union and the allocation to it of a central role in migration policy corresponds to a strengthening of national interests and of our fellow citizens. It is we who want to defend the Italians, with serious and long-range policies and not with slogans with more or less truculent effect. As I said, Mr President, migration is a serious threat, but also a great opportunity for Italy and the European Union: to demonstrate the continuing vitality and strength of the values on which they have been founded and have grown, values that have allowed not only the longest period of peace that our continent has ever benefited in its history, but also the highest level of economic development ever achieved. Today we see with some dismay the prophecy of Albert Camus that, speaking metaphorically of the plague but alluding to intolerance and violence, wrote: He knew, in fact, what he ignored the crowd and that can be read in the books, that the bacille of the plague never dies or disappears, that it can stay asleep for tens of years in furniture and linen, that waits patiently in the rooms and that perhaps the day would come when the plague would wake up its mice to send them to die in a happy city. Europe has been this happy city for a long time and we cannot allow the bacilli of racism, intolerance, xenophobia, segregation and discrimination to sully our continent again. Worrying signals also come from the electoral results of recent days and weeks and it is necessary that anyone who has a democratic spirit and a love of freedom be vigilant. Italy and Europe must live up to their founding values: unity in diversity is the European motto; they are words written with the sweat and blood of so many European citizens who had to set out and cross borders in search of a better existence: I think, for example, of the deaths of Marcinelle, where sixty years ago 262 miners died, largely Italian. We should start over from that memory to find a sense of our future. Europe must have not only a policy for the immediate, but must develop a broader strategy, aimed not only at containing or regulating the migratory wave but at normalising and governing its flows. First of all we must abandon the Bossi-Fini law that makes any migrant a clandestine: how can we legally enter Italy today? It is practically impossible and it is therefore hypocrites to distinguish between those who are legally present and those who are underground because it is the law itself that makes everyone underground. Above all, there is a need to reduce the enormous macroeconomic imbalances between the different areas of the world. In recent months in Malta, during the summit in Valletta, the European Union has made agreements with African countries from which most migrants flee or transit from the Black Continent to Europe. This agreement sought to make a major qualitative leap in relations with the sub-Saharan African States in order to strengthen and more effective cooperation in the fight against irregular emigration and trafficking in people in the Mediterranean. We are trying to create a sort of safety belt on the routes of the countries of origin and transit of migratory flows that have as their destination Europe: the Horn of Africa migration route, namely Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan and Tunisia. Perhaps it would be appropriate to concentrate efforts and efforts on this very front, rather than simply insist on the agreement with Turkey. The Khartoum process, of which Italy has been directed since the beginning, in addition to providing the framework that was lacking for a structured policy and an operational confrontation between the European Union and the countries of the Horn of Africa, has structured an ambitious path aimed at addressing the root causes of mass immigration, highlighting the close link between the latter and the absence of development prospects. In fact, the EU-Horn of Africa migration route initiative aims to control these flows through agreements that provide full cooperation from African states in the face of cooperative investments. But here's a sore spot. Governments, or rather regimes, which are considered unreliable by non-governmental human rights organisations and which, despite the support - including economic support - of the European Union, have failed to implement processes of democratisation and social inclusion within the European Union, can they really stop migratory flows? What guarantees can they provide on respect for the rights of refugees and on possible forms of corruption in the management of the camps? In conclusion, it is necessary to provide for forms of monitoring to ensure that the agreements are effectively respected and at the same time to ensure that they evolve towards practices that respect the fundamental civil and democratic rights of those peoples; a difficult task that only a united Europe can achieve. Finally, Mr President, let me say that just this morning the newspapers published a document that was found on the fifteenth anniversary of the death of William Shakespeare, the greatest writer of tragedies and comedies of our time. Shakespeare writes as follows (and seems to do it exactly for us): If the King banished you from England, where would you go? Whether it's in France or Flanders, in any Germanic province, in Spain or Portugal, in fact, wherever it doesn't look like England, or well, you'll have to be foreigners. Would you then like to find a nation of such barbaric temperament that, in an explosion of violence and hatred, you would not give yourself a place on earth, sharpen its detestable knives against your gorges, cast you out as dogs, as if you were not children and the work of God, or that the elements are not all appropriate to your welfare, but belonged only to them? How would you feel about being treated like that? This is how foreigners feel. This is your inhumanity. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u36	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u37	We greet the students, students and teachers of the ENAIP Vocational Training Centre in Tione di Trento, in the province of Trento, who follow our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u38	I communicate to the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 (text 2), No 2 (text 2) and No 2 (text 2) by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, No 3, Senator Centinario and other Senators, No 4, Senators Stefano and Uras, No 5, Senator Compagna and other Senators, No 6, Senator De Cristofaro and other Senators, No 7, Senator Catalfo and other Senators, No 8, Senator Barani and other Senators, and No 9, Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been rich, with thirteen speeches. I followed him carefully and thank you for the stimuli that you brought and that I hope to be able to deliver to the debate tomorrow and Friday. I thank everyone and, finally, Senator Cociancich for his quote from Shakespeare. Yesterday we were all very impressed by an image that portrayed the crossing of a river, where three people lost their lives. Those words, which are also attributed to the patron saint of politicians Sir Thomas More (it is clearly a work of Shakespeare but in it is recalled the one whom John Paul II proclaimed the patron of politicians, of course for Catholics who are part of this assembly), have made me think and therefore I thank her for her considerations. But I would interpret my concept of reply by offering some data to the attention of the senators who have intervened, even with an excess - if you will - of pignoleria and detail, and then I would limit myself to a political conclusion on the basis of the considerations that different have carried out and among these, in particular, Senator Casini. I'm starting with the issues that Senator Lezzi raised. I too join the welcome back, in these hours, to the senator, and I entrust my reply to her colleagues imagining that she has some understandable commitments in this case. Senator Lezzi has raised a controversy that I do not share on the numbers of the Italian Government. I would simply like to mention a few of them so that everyone can make their own views known and so that anyone who wants can then switch to fact checking, i.e. the control of the actual data. Eighty euros go to those who earn less than 1,500 net per month. The senator spoke of taxes being reduced to Marchionne & Co. I have great esteem of Dr. Marchionne and, unlike others, present also in this room and also in my political part, I consider it a very important point of reference for the Italian economy; if there are timid signs of recovery, this derives also from the fact that we have returned to manufacture cars in Italy and that in Basilicata a car of the Jeep for the United States is manufactured. But in common with this great esteem that I have towards Dr. Marchionne, I feel I exclude that his salary is below 1,500 euros net per month. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio]] The ten million Italians who take the eighty euros, for which everything is except a tip as derogatoryly some politicians far from reality tend to define this measure, have with the eighty euros the possibility of a space of daily life decidedly important and significant. I do not want to convince you of the goodness of this government's economic strategy, but I hope that after two years and one month of action it will be clear that the eighty euros are not an electoral bonus. I add - just to tell the reality as it is - that we have forgotten it, but the eighty euros have arrived after the European elections, because having paid the 27th... [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] AIROLA (M5S). Please! Arrigoni (LN-Aut). It's on Twitter, come on! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. I imagine what an Italian can conceive at home: there is a government that is lowering taxes and others that discuss whether it lowered them the day before or the day after the elections. It's been two years since ten million Italians, thanks to the work of this government, pay less taxes! [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] [[Comments from the M5S and LN-Aut Groups and Senator Gasparri.]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Liar! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. I say this to the friends of the League, to the government for fifteen years: why didn't you do it? The most extraordinary thing is that the more they make authoritative controversy exponents... [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u40	Quiet, let me finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u41	Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. I said that they make more authoritative controversy exponents of governments who were, who now complain about us for this measure; if it is such an important measure why didn't you do it when you ruled in this country for decades? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Senator Gasparri's comments.]] Why did you forget? ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Because it wasn't fair! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. It wasn't fair; we have different opinions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scilipoti Isgrò! Colleagues, please do not intervene and do not interrupt when speaking. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Rightly the President of the Senate has the responsibility to call to order; I, from my point of view, say that for the communicative aspect there will be someone who says, from the Government, that we have reduced the taxes to ten million Italians, and Senator Scilipoti Isgrò who says that it is not fair to give eighty euros to ten million Italians who do not reach 1,500 euros per month. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] [[Comments of Senator Scilipoti Isgrò]] Since I have been patiently in this House and have listened, I believe, out of respect for this House, that I have a duty to go and identify the voices which are not correct in relation to reality. The second point concerns the issue of deficit. I would like it to be clear, for Senator Lezzi and for all of us, that the GDP figure, which has been discussed for a long time because it was forecast to be 0.7, then 0.9 and closed at 0.8 (and this has opened a great debate), is the first positive figure after three years of less sign. Now one more argument: But I expected more: I wanted to take the 1.5 because the others did 1,5, 1,3, 1,0,5, 1.7...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It can be attributed to the governments of this three-year period or to those who have not made certain provisions that could be made. I think that if Italy had done, between 2003 and 2005, what Germany did, that is, a reform of the labour market, for our country would have been better, and I say it without opening a controversial debate, but taking note that Germany in 2003 started with Schroeder a reform of the labour market that ended in 2005 with Merkel. There was no confrontation on this. The fact is that today the unemployment rate in Germany is at 6%. Senator Lezzi said unemployment numbers aren't the correct ones. I quote both the ISTAT data from unemployment and the numbers of the jobs act, because I believe that on this should be left to the acts of this Senate the reality for what it is. First of all, when we arrived at the government, unemployment was 13.2%; now unemployment is just over 11%. If you ask me for a judgment, I tell you that it is too high, but there is no doubt about the fact that going from 13 to 11 percent - I believe that even Senator Scilipoti Isgrò will agree on this - is a sign of improvement. In fact, if unemployment goes from 13 to 11 percent (okay, Senator Scilipoti?) It means things are going a little better or, if you want, a little less worse. But I come to the job act data, because you may agree or disagree about everything, but you can't fight with reality. I would like to quote data from INPS and ISTAT. I am referring to INPS data from last year, January 2015, compared to permanent contracts. Attention, I am not talking about people, because, as you know, there may be more than one signed contract; in this case I am talking about permanent contracts and I would like it to remain in the record. There have been more than 913,000 permanent contracts that are the sum - I address to Senator De Cristofaro - of recruitments and transformations, with the less sign of disposals (then I arrive also to people, I am not in a hurry). The central point, then, is that at least we can maintain a minimum of reality; then we are talking about politics and we are having the debate that Senator Casini has rightly urged us to do. But the fact is that, to date, the INPS data mark in Italy - and I think we are all happy about it, because I believe that none of us are dissatisfied if there is an indeterminate contract of employment in Italy - 913,000 contracts of indefinite duration. Can we say that there are 913,000 more people working? No. And I come to the data of ISTAT, which divide into two categories: the extra permanent employees and the total employed (so we respond to the consideration of Senator Lezzi, who talks about transformations, saying that they are all transformations). I would like to open a discussion with you on the fact that, if there are changes, it means that someone who was precarious takes the contract indefinitely. CATALFO (M5S). Not always. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Of course, to increasing safeguards, which means indefinitely because it is a contract of increasing protection. I do not think that Senator Ichino has joined in his reply, otherwise he could give you ample insight into the assessment of this legal institution. The point, though, what is it? If I'm a precarious man, who doesn't have an indefinite contract, and so I'm a precarious busy man and I become an indeterminate busy man, maybe it's just a transformation for you, but to me life is transformed, [[Applause from the PD Group]] ) because they give me the mortgage, because I have a life perspective, because I can have a child, because I can live. [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]] [[Applause from the PD Group).]] Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). What mortgage? Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. And you can't complain about that. You may be in opposition to us, to the government, but not to the fact that a boy can have a chance to live. Otherwise, he's gonna fight reality. To the point: how many people are in total employment? When I say that there are 468,000 more permanent employees I am explaining that there is a number that contemplates and understands the transformations that Lezzi has spoken about. I am not denying that some of these extra contracts are transformations; but unlike Senator Lezzi and the Senators who are screaming about the 5 Star Movement, I am convinced that this is still a positive fact. But I recognize that some of these are simply transformations. What does ISTAT say (and I have concluded on the question of work)? The total number of additional employees in 2015 is 221,000. Thus, there are 468,000 permanent workers: 221,000 plus 247,000 who mark the difference. This is the result of the jobs act. Then one can say that the part of the jobs act legislation affects more or less than the part of the social security legislation. Senator D'Alì has explained to me several times and has given me the fleas, among other things speaking of the Council of Europe, which is known to be in Strasbourg, while the European Council, which I will participate in tomorrow, is in Brussels. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). We apologize. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. It's little trifles, like the ones he pointed out to me. Senator D'Alì said they were contributions, exemptions of a social security nature. True, but they were made possible by the elimination of the IRAP work cost component. So, I'd like to recap to make it clear, stick to the record, and there's a timely response to Senator Lezzi and the others. The jobs act consists of two parts: one fiscal (and, as Senator D'Alì says, social security), which in turn consists of the IRAP labour costs and the operation of social security exemptions; and a regulation. This part produced a total result in Italy of 913,000 more permanent contracts, 468,000 permanent employees and 221,000 more employees. What does that mean? It means this operation worked. You say it was a stroke of luck? Say it. You say it was the cynical and cheating destiny that didn't let you do it, and we did? I, as an Italian, say that if you had done this ten years ago, I would have been happier than to come here and play the part of what the government has to claim this result. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And I am convinced that many of your voters and many of your senators feel that way, too, they have some difficulty with the current situation on the right. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Instead, the PD... president. Once again, please do not comment as the President-in-Office of the Council is intervening. You had time to talk. We are now in the process of replying, so please do not comment. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. I'm going quickly to the last point. You have to do it because it's a torment: ==References====External links== Finally, after two years and a month, I have to quote a text. Since there are some who want to defend the Constitution from those who want to change it, from these dangerous revolutionaries - who do not want to change this part - I would like to quote briefly Article 92 and Article 94 of the Constitution, with particular dedication to Senators Tosato and Marin. Article 92, second paragraph: The President of the Republic appoints the President of the Council of Ministers and, on a proposal from him, the Ministers. I would like to reveal this secret: it is not an ad personam norm, like the ones you voted in the past. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is just a rule that has always been valid for the last 63 governments and for the 27 Presidents of the Council of this country, so there was no one who was elected directly. Then there were those who wanted to bring the direct election of the President of the Council, which was not carried on for a thousand reasons, despite various bicameral commissions, and which is not even part of the constitutional reform bill that we are going to vote on at sixth reading in the House. With respect to the legitimacy that the President of the Council must express or not, I read Article 94: •The Government must have the confidence of the two Chambers •. Without the consent of Tosato, who was not yet senator because he was not elected, but this nothing takes away respect for his legitimacy; that is, he did not make it to be elected, then he resigned Senator Bitonci and entered him, but it is worth it anyway, he is a senator like all the others, he is not a different senator... [[Comments by Senator Scilipoti Isgrò.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u42	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, I'm calling you back to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u43	Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Senators Tosato and Bitonci had the opportunity to vote for trust. They did not, however, unfortunately for them, the House and the Senate voted to trust this Government. What does Article 94, second paragraph, say? Attention. IN MAY (CoR). You're a coward! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Maggio, you can't intervene. I'll call you back to order. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Article 94, second paragraph: "Each House grants or revokes trust by reasoned motion and voted by roll call." IN MAY (CoR). Ciatrione! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Maggio, I'm calling you back to order for the second time, and it's on the record. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Di Maggio told those who wrote this article of the Constitution. I distance myself from the senator's sentence. So, what happens? It happens that when the government puts trust and doesn't get it, the government goes home. Now, everything can be said to our Government, but not that we have not put the question of trust in this House so many times - I come to say a little too much - and yet trust is confirmed to us all the time. This means that, despite we have had 54 attempts, this Government is legitimate, the Constitution is saved, your inability to read the legal facts of this country is impressive. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] Then there is - and I am going to the political point - a final consideration. [[Comments of the Senator Council]] that ties to a passageway. Because one can say: but this constitutional judgment clashes with the reality of the facts. In fact, a resounding fact has happened in the last European elections, also this fruit of destiny and an impressive astral conjunction of some planets randomly aligned. This is about a political party. And it is very important what Senator Casini said, that he does not belong to that party and that European political family. This party has achieved a result, in terms of consensus, which is the most significant, in terms of percentage, since the times of Christian Democracy in 1958. In this case, Senator Casini has a certain know-how. IN MAY (CoR). Read the numbers! Two out of ten Italians voted for you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Maggio, I call you to order once again. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. It's impressive how they don't realize they're playing other people's games. This is so embarrassing. The central point, Senator Di Maggio, is that for a few decades in this country the votes are considered on the basis of the percentage that is reached by each party. That party took 40.8 percent. We accept, however, Senator Di Maggio's proposal and look at the absolute votes. That party, the Democratic Party, took more votes than any other political formation in Europe: 11.2 million votes. [[Applause from the PD Group]] What's the second party? THE CDU (plus the PSU) with 10.6 million votes. Therefore, the two most voted parties were the Italian Democratic Party, despite the lack of support from Senator Di Maggio, and the party of Chancellor Merkel. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Stop doing the show! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. I shall conclude on this point, because I have said enough, and I come to the political point. The political point is that Senator Casini is right when he says, not so much to the Italian Government, but to the European ruling class, that we are at a crossroads. And the fork is very simple: either we, pulling our sleeves up, try to recover and rebuild an idea of Europe that has the values that fifty-eight years ago marked the history of Rome, and not only of Rome; or we are going to crash into those hairpins of history that a great Italian democratic Christian used to define as a key moment of political experience and that are hairpins of history of rare danger. Around the issues of immigration, growth, security and security there are not only the conclusion and words of a European Council document, and there is the very idea of what led the founding fathers to imagine Europe. I say to Senator Casini and to all of you that, even beyond certain sufferings, certain difficulties and even certain legitimate feelings of anger, our effort is exactly in this direction: to make this season, not a season of internal polemics and selfishness, but a constituent and restitutive season for Europe, so that the Europe of children can live up to the dream of the Europe of the Fathers. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u44	I would ask the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u45	Mr President, on Senator Calderoli's motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), the opinion is in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted: it commits the Government to continue to support positions that guarantee respect for human and fundamental rights in all negotiations with third countries. In that case, the opinion would be favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u46	I ask Senator Calderoli if he accepts this reformulation CALDEROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. On motion for a resolution No 2 (text 2), tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, the opinion is in favour. On motion for a resolution No 3 the opinion is against, while on motion No 4 the opinion is in favour. On motion for a resolution No 5, the opinion is contrary to the premises and in favour of commitments, if the rewordings proposed by the Government are accepted. Paragraph 1 of the undertaking is accepted until the word "Turkey" is inserted; it is then proposed to delete from "taking into account" up to "the States" and then to continue with the words "to achieve the objectives" instead of "to achieve." In paragraph 2 of the undertaking it is then proposed to add, after the words "in particular" to the words "as soon as the conditions" are fulfilled; to delete "the most energetic and interventionist" and to add after "turned" the words "in full compliance with international law." In paragraph 3, it is proposed to add "to continue to defend at European level." If these rewordings are accepted, the opinion is in favour of commitments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does Senator Compagna accept the rewordings proposed by the Government? Comrade (CoR). Yes, Mr. President. Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. On motion for a resolution No 6, the opinion is contrary to the premises and in favour of commitments, if the rewordings of the Government are accepted, which are, in the first paragraph, to propose the possibility instead of promoting immediate openness. In the third paragraph, delete the first two lines and add a new proposal to initiate the procedure. The opinion is opposed, in the fourth last paragraph, to propose in the European Council that the Agreement be cancelled. In the penultimate paragraph of this page, it is proposed to change the support to restore the need to promote a major investment plan. On the next page, in the part relating to the European Semester, employment and growth, the opinion is contrary to the first paragraph; in favour of the second paragraph until the European Treaties are eliminated. In the third paragraph, it is proposed to replace the proposal by supporting the various initiatives aimed at a Green New Deal. The next commitment would be reworded as follows: "to support the implementation of a social dimension of the European Union, including common unemployment guarantee instruments." In the next paragraph, it is proposed to replace the Schauble plan by rejecting any plan. In the next paragraph, it is proposed to add, after the words "today" are added, the words "in the absence of a true balance sheet of the euro area". Finally, the opinion is opposed to the fifth and sixth paragraphs. If these rewordings are accepted, the opinion is in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Cristofaro, do you accept the changes proposed by the government? De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). No, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So the government's opinion is against it. Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. For motion for a resolution No 7, the opinion is contrary to the premises and the first two commitments. In the third section, it is proposed to replace the first two commitments and to support the others which I have not mentioned. If the rewordings are accepted, the opinion is in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Catalfo, how do you express your views on the Government representative's proposals?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u47	We are asking for a split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u48	The senator shall request the separate vote of the paragraphs of the operative part on which the opinion is favourable and of the premises and paragraphs of the operative part on which the opinion is contrary.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u49	On motion for a resolution No 8, the opinion is opposed to the premises and favours commitments if they have been reworded as follows: in the first, instead of reschedule, to re-establish the need to implement the agreements on the management of migratory flows and the rest is maintained; in the second commitment, to replace the request for re-application by continuing its action aimed at the immediate revision of the Dublin Regulation. The rest is the same. With reference to the third point, I propose to replace the word "highlight" with the following: "reaffirm." With reference to the fifth point, I propose to replace the word "uplift" with the following: "uplift."
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u50	Senator Barani, do you accept the proposal for reformulation put forward by the Undersecretary? Mr Barani (AL-A). Yes, I accept the proposal for reformulation. Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. With reference to motion for a resolution No 9, tabled by Senator Paolo Romani and other senators, the opinion is contrary to the premises and in favour of commitments if reworded as follows. In paragraph 1 (b), I propose that the following words be inserted: "to continue to implement the agreed measures for the management of external borders." In paragraph 1 (f), I propose to add the following words after the word "scafisti": "in full compliance with international law." In paragraph 1 (g), I propose that the following be added after the words "of the European Union': "the persecuted populations, including minorities'. In paragraph 1 (h), I propose to insert the following words: "Reaffirming the need to implement a reception plan". In paragraph 1 (i), I propose that the following words be inserted: "to continue the action aimed at revising the clauses of the Dublin Regulation." In paragraph 2 (a), I propose to add the following words: "to take every initiative at European level to clarify the coherence of Italian budgetary policies with the rules of the European Union, in order to avoid the opening of infringement procedures against our country." I propose that paragraph 3 (a) be amended with the following words: Finally, I propose that paragraph 3 (c) be amended with the following words: PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romani, do you accept the proposal for reformulation put forward by the Undersecretary? ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I could also accept the proposal for a rewording with regard to the commitment, but we cannot give up on the premises, which I believe I have understood that the Government has expressed a contrary opinion. I therefore do not accept the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u51	The Government's opinion is therefore against it. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u54	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I think it is normal that the President-in-Office of the Council does not know all the senators present in this House and therefore does not know the anonymous Senator Tosato. Know, however, that when I was elected to the Senate I held the elective office of regional councillor. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I was part of that category of citizens' representatives that the President-in-Office of the Council would like to bring to the Senate today. I could say, but I don't think so, that I am the best prototype of the senator Renzi would want in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]] The President-in-Office of the Council must then be aware of another issue. I am here, in this House, not because he has stabbed his predecessor behind him. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]] The undersigned is here because his predecessor, Senator Bitonci, was elected mayor of Padua, defeating the Democratic Party candidate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]] This is the harsh and hard reality. [[Comments of the LN-Aut Group]] I regret that the debate has slipped on personal matters, it should not have happened, but I think it is really sad that a President of the Council does not have the authority to respond to the political remarks of the senators of this House, turning the debate into a personal matter. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]] We do not need a phenomenon or a bust in the government, we simply need a President-in-Office of the Council who cares about the lives of Italian citizens. Unfortunately, at the moment Italy does not have this President of the Council. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami. Congratulations.]] Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Narciso!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u57	[[Senator Arrigoni's comments.]] Senator Arrigoni, Senator Mario Mauro has the floor. We respect those who have the floor. MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I shall say a few brief words. The words of the President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Mr Casini, have been very wise: the problem of the European Union and the problem of the Italian Government is a problem of lack of leadership. (at 7.30 p.m.) (MAURO Mario followed). The lack of leadership from what do you see? From a very simple fact. A very concrete question has been asked: is Minister Alfano right when he says that there is no risk on the so-called Adriatic route and that no one will ever arrive in Italy from Albania, or is the commander of the NATO KFOR contingent in Pristina, who says instead that NATO troops have been alerted because tens of thousands of people from Turkey must be transported to Albania? It is a simple matter; one must have the courage to call things by their name and answer questions. Otherwise, what will happen? Tomorrow Renzi will go to Brussels, he will sit at that table, of course he will not be able to give any answer, but above all he will be unaware of the contours of an EU-Turkey agreement that leaves open the possibility of unleashing the Adriatic route. So, with a government that admits to attending an inconclusive meeting, isn't there the risk that, among those seated at the table, the most inconclusive of all is exactly what succumbs? [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u60	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, in our motion for a resolution, which the Government has accepted with reformulations, we have explained in detail the reasons why we are calling for more decisive action by the Government in the Community. From this point of view, the next European Council, even beyond the immediate results that can be achieved, is an important opportunity that cannot be missed. In the face of that gathering, Italy needs to speak the language of Europe, but of a Europe different from that which we are accustomed to reading in the daily chronicles; of an open and respectful Europe of international obligations, but also rigorous in defending its citizens from possible invasions, which, however humanly understandable, clash with the logic of the great numbers. The phenomenon of immigration, typical of the modern era and itself the son of globalization, cannot be ignored, but it cannot not even be managed by having as its compass and orientation those rules that represent our daily life. As far as possible, quotas and graduality must be taken into account where the account of the resources available and the needs to be met has a rational basis. Giving in to the impulse of the moment, as has happened in other countries, only feeds the social malaise and those phenomena of becero populism that risk having pernicious effects for the entire political stability of Europe, that needs to find all its original Community inspiration, instead of being locked in the enclosure of its own borders. In an emergency such as today's, the worst thing would be to give in to irrational impulses, even if they are covered by the ethic of solidarity, and then trigger xenophobic reactions, which bring back the hands of history. If this is true of Syria, where a small flame of hope has been set on fire as a result of the withdrawal of Russian troops, the situation is even more worrying for Libya. I say this with caution: no adventure. In the past we have already given and it has been a mistake; persevering would even be diabolical. So let's leave the warmongering intentions to others. Any military intervention, as far as we are concerned, as a Group, can only be the consequence of a request from the Libyan Government and have all the imprimatur of an international character. To intervene out of time would only be the renewed certification of a neo-imperialist vocation, which Italy, given its historical history in the Region, cannot afford. So calm down, colleagues. Think about the words that have been "from sen fugitive" to Barack Obama himself, in his punctual criticism of the work of Cameron and Sarkozy. May the Government prove far more firm than Silvio Berlusconi did at the time, attracted, albeit reluctantly, given his posthumous criticism, by the French and English sirens. Europe is doing little and bad. On the one hand, there is Mario Draghi who tries, with his strength, to bring liquidity into the system. The President of the Council recalled the famous bazooka of the President of the ECB, as defined by the great press, which fights against its powerful opponents inside the board and must suffer the continuous attacks of the German well-thought-out press. On the other hand, there is the European Commission, which stands in the opposite and opposite direction, which insists on policies of rigour, which make sense when inflation undermines the foundations of financial credibility, but which have adverse effects when the horizon is that of deflation. The truth is that the ECB and the European Commission are pursuing opposing policies. The first attempts to bring inflation to 2% in order to revive the real economy and the second freezes, with budgetary rules, under the banner of austerity and financial containment. It must not necessarily be current expenditure and food for cicadas, but investment can be relaunched, all the more effective, if accompanied by reforms able to restart the market. Instead, we are moving in opposite directions, indicating that the European Commission does not consider the target of 2% of the inflation rate to be valid. But is it the Commission that can decide this or is it not up to the European Council to determine the course to be followed? This dualism must therefore be resolved as soon as possible. If Draghi is believed to be wrong, then - which is unlikely and extremely dangerous for the very fate of Europe - the ECB summit will be changed. But if Draghi, as I believe, is right, then it is the European Council that must strike a blow, set the path to follow, if ever after having discussed it in the European Parliament, to indicate binding objectives, within which to move the next activity of the technocracy. Mr President, to conclude, that is why we think we should tell the President-in-Office of the Council to make every effort to ensure that the European Socialist family, in which I have always recognised myself, works to help our President of the ECB, Mario Draghi, because we believe that he is the only one who really cares about Europe, in order to bring back that solidarity and development, which have long been lacking in Europe. [[Applause from the AL-A Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u63	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this summit comes at a very difficult time, with the attacks of last weekend, Syria, the development of the Libyan situation and, unfortunately, the inability of supranational organisations to cope with these emergencies. Yesterday it was the fifth anniversary since the beginning of the war in Syria: 450,000 people have died, millions are displaced and as many are ready to leave the country. Then there is a drama in the drama and it is that of the children who in these five years have never set foot in a school, are orphans and stateless, because they were born in refugee camps. International police estimate that there are about 5,000 minors in our country that are no longer known. In the face of events of such magnitude, the European Union's greatest effort is needed. We have said this several times in this House and you have said it several times, the President-in-Office of the Council has said it, here as in international fora. However, it is clear that, despite the goodwill of countries like ours, Europe shows delays and contradictions that one day we will tell as one of the most painful wounds in its history. Turkish involvement is therefore right and all the measures that loosen the budgetary constraints for those countries actively engaged in emergency management are good. All this, however, is not enough and will not be enough until the day when the Dublin Regulation is corrected in order to create a collegial management of borders, reception and return, also to speed up the recognition procedures and increase security controls. It is necessary to arrive at European political asylum, thus rewriting the Dublin Regulation and saving the Schengen Agreement. Furthermore, we are all very concerned about the restoration of the Brenner border, including our economy, but first of all because, as we have seen in Hungary, a border is not a disincentive for those who run away from the misery and terror of war. I thank the President-in-Office of the Council for the words and commitments he has spent on Brenner in his last speech in this House. We are especially concerned that today the land Tirol and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano have reached a relationship of strong collaboration, also institutional, that has led to the creation of the European Group of Territorial Cooperation (EGTC) of the Euregio Trentino-Alto Adige-Tirolo, that, precisely in these months under presidency of Trentino, has launched more than 50 projects of effective cross-border collaboration. It is an important laboratory, which, precisely in the years of the centenary of the Great War, builds bridges and tunnels to unite territories before divided by war and which the President of the Council himself indicated as a model for the solution of the Ukrainian crisis. This is also why the three Presidents of Trentino, South Tyrol and Tyrol in recent weeks have created a joint initiative both with the Austrian authorities and in the meeting with Minister Alfano, precisely because they are aware that a possible refugee emergency would be a problem for everyone, regardless of the border. It is an initiative that must be supported and deserves special attention, precisely because it goes in the direction of collegiate management, not only by governments, but also by the local institutions that are affected by the problem. The closure of the Brenner border would be a serious setback. That is why we are calling for the Italian Government's full commitment to the Austrian authorities and to the European Parliament to ensure that this eventuality, which unfortunately appears to be concrete and close today, is avoided. I would also ask the Government to keep our territories involved, which have reaffirmed their full willingness to cooperate actively. That is why we support the Government in the action it is taking, with determination, in Europe, also in the awareness that in the face of the terrorist threat, especially when it succeeds in making proselytes even in the discomfort that is lurking in our communities, it is necessary to put in place strong instruments of a cultural and social character, to reaffirm the centrality of our values, to combat the social malaise, to ensure better living conditions and a different perspective of the future. It is therefore right to remind Europe that it cannot be just the place of the bureaucracy's strong shirts that crush our agriculture, the mountains, our small and medium-sized enterprises; that it cannot be just the place of that austerity that has produced a dangerous displacement of the middle class, which has seen the birth of new forms of poverty that we believed should no longer belong to our countries. I believe that the political line that the Government has taken in confronting Europe is the right one. The real problem, not of the government but of the institutions of the Union, is that more and more often it seems to be in the game of goose, so even after the sharing of objectives during the summits, the next day everything turns into a game of distinction, of delays and shortcomings, to return, tragically, to the starting point, as the President of the Council himself realistically admitted. It is clear then that the action must be intensified and not left alone on the shoulders of the Italian Government, but it must see a wider involvement of all those forces that can help Europe find the right way, a bit as it is trying to do with our Euregio and on which we need important support from the Government. For these reasons, I would like to announce the Group's vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 2 (text 2), signed by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u66	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I will also be very quick because the reasons why we are going to vote in favour of our resolution and not those of the majority and others are actually very much contained in my speech in the debate, and we could not, of course, accept the proposal for a rewording of the Government which, in our view, would have distorted the content of the resolution itself. However, I would like to take advantage of a few minutes to make a political consideration, also in the light of the debate I have heard and the things that the President-in-Office of the Council said, which, moreover, in some way anticipated in his speech, President Casini, concerning the risks that the European continent is experiencing at this stage and of course the climate of great political and social difficulties and also of fear that crosses our continent and the risk that this climate may generate in Europe a number of phenomena at the best of populist cases, at worst even inspired by extreme right movements that could make the future political framework much more complex than the already very difficult one with which we measure today. The point, however, is that in the intervention of the President-in-Office of the Council - and I must also say in that of President Casini - there is an unspoken saying on which I believe we should reason, and that is exactly why this has happened all these years. It is too convenient to say that today Europe is experiencing this difficult moment without questioning what the major European political families of these years have done and how the latter, the people on the one hand and the socialists on the other, have tried to manage the crisis and how they have obviously done it in the most wrong way possible. There is a total political removal of the resounding mistakes that have led the continent to this kind of situation today. One for everyone: a few years ago in our country (but how can you not see this thing?) We have approved in this Parliament, perhaps even unanimously, the balance of the budget in the Constitution. Faced with the cry that often came from outside and that said to be careful because this goosehole would lead the continent to an irreversible crisis, we have unfortunately witnessed the complete impossibility to put in place a reasoning on this. Then crocodile tears are too easy today. Today's crisis in Europe stems from a huge political responsibility. Unfortunately, this political responsibility is primarily of the two main European political families, who should not, in my opinion, simply describe the crisis but perhaps, a little more seriously, ask themselves what the reasons for it are. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u67	Senator Casini has the right to speak in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u68	Mr President, I give up the explanation of vote and I refer to the speech I made in the debate. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u71	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, first of all, I note that the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Renzi, considered it appropriate to leave and not participate in the conclusion of the debate. I also note that you have not told this House, you have not told the senators, even if you are careful about what we are going to discuss tomorrow at the European Council, what he will say, what he has really understood and what he will do about it. I will not talk about the issue of immigration because Senator Fattori has explained in a very good way the understanding of the 5 Star Movement. However, I would like to reiterate some of the concepts regarding the economic question on which President Renzi, today, has come to make the usual panegyric of his government action; he has told us how the Italian economy has reactivated itself following the action of this Government, how consumption, employment and the economy have reactivated in general; how the economy is going through a moment of brilliant form thanks to the action of the Government and these pseudo-reforms called in English terms so as not to make them understand to the Italians. The statements of the President-in-Office of the Council, however, clash with the harsh reality and are precisely the facts and the numbers that Senator Lezzi has also mentioned - which we quote in the premises of our resolution - which give shape and substance to the failure of this Government and to the mystification of the situation of our country in Europe, which certainly has no fertile ground. The fact is that Italy is on the brink of a failure. The meeting of the Eurogroup on 7 March is only the last of the warnings and concerns that EU actors address to our country. The government is in fact failing to comply with the European rules on debt consolidation and will not, therefore, suffice the much-proclaimed flexibility obtained in European bargaining to avoid the risk of a negative judgment. It is easy to explain this rejection. If the financial resources granted to our country had really been used to restart our economy, we would not be here discussing yet another wand on Italy's hands by the European Union. For months the government has been doing well; we are talking about the increase in GDP: first 0.9% more, then 0.7%; then a miserable 0.6% of ISTAT - these are the figures - while the rest of the European Union sees GDP increase by 1.8%, by 1.5% within the Eurozone. What pushed this poor growth, boasted by the Government, is not actually jobs act, but they are economic factors, that is to say events outside our economy: the decline in the price of oil, the devaluation of the euro and quantitative easing; and that is not what the 5 Star Movement says, but it is in the eyes of the whole of Europe. Moreover, the decline in the cost of producing consumer goods caused by the fall in the cost of inputs without adequate support for income and the revival of consumption means that today we are in a problematic economic condition: that of deflation. This is confirmed by the latest ISTAT data today, and not by a year ago. Again, President Renzi argues, that the increase in employment has indeed been there. First of all, he should agree with himself: a month ago in this House he was talking about 756,000 permanent employment contracts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. CATALFO (M5S). I'll finish. He's talking about 950,000 contracts today. Then he says they are transformations; then he talks about precarious people who have received the possibility of having a contract of work transformed indefinitely. Indeed, most of the changes have sometimes been the result of fraud, and this has also been widely discussed in the Commission work, including through my question and with the Government's replies that it has reiterated that it is unable to control fraud. The 200,000 jobs are a very low increase in employment compared with 12 billion spent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. CATALFO (M5S). The eighty euros - the so-called bonus - correspond to 20 billion structural spent that had no incentive on Italian consumption. We are talking here of at least 32 billion wasted rather than making structural investments, investing in social policies and income support. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish. CATALFO (M5S). I'll finish. Therefore, it is clear that the Renzi government's policy is bankrupt; it has no contractual power in Europe and cannot demand flexibility, because in the face of the request for flexibility they do not correspond true reforms that have produced a real growth of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u74	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President of the Senate, President Renzi (or members of the Government who represent him), ladies and gentlemen, we wish President Renzi every success, in view of tomorrow's European Council, although it is certain that he will once again address issues that Europe cannot solve. I have no doubt that the challenge to immigration, employment and the economic crisis will be just another impossible task. The delicate moment, characterized by maximum flows, makes it difficult to combine the principle of free movement with that of security and control of migrants. The aim of the European Union at this time is to save the Schengen Agreement, but migration issues must be re-integrated into a cohesive and logical European framework and not, alas, into a fragmented international chessboard, in which six European countries have suspended Schengen: Austria, Denmark, France, Norway, Sweden and Germany. The management of immigration is a burning issue, pervades the policies of each Member State of the Union and will lead to rising the costs already claimed. I would remind you that the estimate of the additional charges for the closure of the Schengen internal borders, where this should occur, amounts to EUR 1 400 billion over a decade, so that we really cannot afford this disaster. The vote on Sunday in Germany, which, by rewarding the Euro-sceptic parties, highlighted the concerns of the common people towards a ruleless reception, is emblematic in this respect. On the contrary, the pursuit of economic and monetary Europe needs to break down frontiers for people and goods. It is therefore necessary to draw up a logical European framework which distances itself from an obnoxious policy in relation to a subject which, already a year ago, marked the evidence of all its problems. In this connection, I would like to remind you, as President Renzi has just said, that in just under a year the European Union's action on immigration has seen 41 meetings and meetings at the highest level in Europe and sixteen different measures taken. To the southern route of migration (which must be remembered, with the Berlusconi Government and the agreement with Gaddafi had been almost neutralized), the Balkan route has been added. This has ensured that the countries of Mitteleuropa and the North of the Old Continent are also involved by the phenomenon of migration, from Syria and from other countries of the East. Just as they have led all the Balkan countries to physically close their borders. I believe that President Renzi's call not to build new walls will hardly be accepted by all European countries, rightly alarmed by this uncontrolled immigration. We hope that with his dialectic, as he tried today to convince us that everything was going well in Italy, he will succeed in obtaining this great initiative of the demolition of the walls that have already been built in Europe. However, Merkel herself understood that politics cannot be obnoxious: first hard, then soft and welcoming, crossing its borders to over a million refugees, and then showing the iron fist and, today, in fact, blocking the borders with Turkey, not in a coercive way, but inviting Turkey to maintain, with 564 million euros of investment, the refugees within Turkish territory. Of course Turkey knows this, it takes 564 million from Germany, 280 million from Italy and now, since the money is not enough for it, it will probably ask for a doubling: we will pay three billion euros for the detention of Syrian refugees and other countries within Turkey. However, I hope that tomorrow's European Council, dealing with migration issues, will not neglect the issues of employment, growth and competitiveness, which cannot go into the background. I see my time is up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish. FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). I shall leave the written text of my speech to the record. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). One thing I want to say. The President-in-Office's dialectic is something we all appreciate. When I am in the Chamber and I hear him speak, I delude myself that something has changed; it is a pity that I have to get out of this House and that I am with the world every day, which is in crisis, has no employment and sees, at all times and in every category, the increase in taxes and taxes and the businesses that close. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u77	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our Group has tabled and will, of course, vote on the resolution approving the communications made here today by the President-in-Office of the Council. But while respecting what should be the authentic spirit of these occasions, all too often misled by elements of political controversy, I would like to return to some of the issues that have been raised by the President-in-Office of the Council and which, I believe, are the heart of what will be the European Council meetings on 17 and 18 March. I would like to begin, and I would also like to express the sense of a debate that took place here this afternoon with some of the speeches that I particularly appreciated (I refer to President Casini's speech), from a statement by President Casini on the need to overcome the European crisis caused by the migration phenomenon and to address it with a revival of the European issue. What Chancellor Merkel is doing, in response to a fact which reminded us of President Casini and which occupies the pages of the newspapers, by making a gesture that is not only of merit but also symbolic, because it defends not only itself and its own politics, but the spirit and soul of Europe, not recognizable today by those who look at the amount of fences, barbed wires and walls that divide the European States, united in the European Union, and those who look at the refugee camps on the border with Macedonia. If an alien arrived, he would certainly find it hard to recognize what he saw as the dream of the founding fathers of the Union. I want to come to the point perhaps more difficult and thorny than the issue, which is what concerns the agreement with Turkey and the solution thus given to the migratory flow from that part of the world, not to the migration issue. These are two different issues. The one, that of migratory flows, is contingent and also the result of the mistakes of Europe; the other, of course, is of a wider scope and of a quality that we have not yet managed to draw on, not even with the European Agenda and its implementation. Let us start with a simple statement: today we have to make agreement with Europe because the Balkan routes and the borders of the European countries have been closed, because Europe is no longer the Schengen Europe, otherwise we would not need to resort to Turkey, but at some risk such as the intervention of Senator Mauro, whom I appreciated, highlighted. But how can we reaffirm in the necessary agreement with Turkey that the President-in-Office of the Council says that we will not do at all, that spirit and sense of the European Union that President Casini was talking about? Now, if we look at it from the outside, we could say that the transfer to Turkey of regular migrants who are on the Greek islands or who are transiting on the route to Greece could abstractly supplement a rejection hypothesis, and we know that the refusal ban is now ius cogens compared to customary international law. But, as we know, this issue can be overcome by what is provided for in the common asylum system. This framework distinguishes between safe third countries, safe European third countries and safe countries of origin. Turkey is not yet a safe third country; in fact, it is not even a safe country of origin. This means that what we have to ask of the European Council table is that the agreement explicitly refers to Article 38 of the Procedures Directive, and that Turkey be asked to observe exactly those conditions that are expected and that must be met in order for a country to be considered safe. This is irrespective of whether Turkey participates in the European Union and whether Turkey has signed the Geneva Convention because, as we know, it applies it only to asylum seekers from European countries. This request which I have translated from the President-in-Office of the Council's intervention, in the sense that we will not make the agreement at all costs and we will not allow this agreement to eliminate and trample on the values and principles of Europe, can certainly have asylum at the table of the European Council. We know, however, that the agreement provides for a mutual obligation of resettlement (and here I also mention the result of the work of the 1st Commission). Resettlement and relocation operations have not been successful and have achieved absolutely little compared to the commitments that the European Agenda had made (even compared to those it had made with regard to Greece and Italy) for a fundamental reason. The reason is that relocation and resettlement did not work and cannot work between Turkey and other European countries unless we address the last item on the agenda of the European Council on 17 and 18 March, namely the revision of the Dublin Agreement. In fact, it is all too simple to conclude that asylum seekers have no desire to be relocated or resettled to another place other than the one in which they aspire to live, probably within a community of the same origin and within their own families already expatriated. The last two issues I want to return to, I think they can no longer be excluded from the discussion table of the European Council. The first is that of a European integration plan for unaccompanied minors: about 70,000 in 2015, with a large turnout in the Mezzogiorno regions. There's a tragic fact. They are young males, mainly, between fifteen and seventeen years old. More than half of them, after identification, are unavailable. It is not acceptable for Europe to be disinterested in the fate of these children. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bignami]] As Senator Casini said and as President Renzi said earlier, who repeatedly referred in his speeches to the African question in this House, it is essential to study the African question and to organize a European summit that meets in several sessions for the study, not only of the migratory flows from those countries, but of the conditions of those countries, of the European economic interests in those countries, in order to understand how much in terms of wealth they bring to you and how much they cannibalize the resources of those countries. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bignami]] It's indispensable. If there is still one person in Europe or in this House who thinks that the phenomenon of migration can be stopped, then I quote only one fact, which is a demographic fact (also acquired in my Commission with the work of colleagues and with the participation of many experts). Let us take just two countries: Germany and Nigeria on the one hand. Two great countries, a European country and an African country. In 2050, Germany's population will decline from 16 to 17%: tens of millions of people. Nigeria's population will grow by 121 percent. But do you really think we can stop them with barbed wire? [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bignami, D'Ascola and Iurlaro]] As you can see, Europe's and the world's ambition to manage this must be too high and we have greatly appreciated the spirit in which the President-in-Office of the Council has opened his report here and the way in which he has continued not only to support Italy's position over the last few months, but also the position of a conscious, lucid and strong Europe in dealing with a problem that is not the change of time. They're not changing the times. They're changing an era. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senators Buemi, D'Ascola, Falanga and Iurlaro. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u78	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1 (text 3) tabled by Senator Calderoli. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 (text 3), tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 2 (text 2), tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 tabled by Senators Stefano and Uras. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 (text 2), tabled by Senator Compagna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on Senator De Cristofaro and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 6 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the separate vote on motion for a resolution No 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u81	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, there has probably been some confusion. We are asking for the vote in full and not in separate parts. There has been clarification with the Government by our Parent Company. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would once again urge the representative of the Government to comment on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u82	The opinion was opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u83	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 7 tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 8 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Romani Paolo and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 9 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u84	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1894, 98, 248 and 1832.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, education in legality is an indispensable value for the formation of conscious citizens in a society that respects fundamental rights and civil coexistence. It is therefore indispensable to build a path of sharing memory among Italians, especially among young people, on the recent history of the Nation, characterized by enormous efforts and sacrifices even extreme aimed at freeing Italy from the presence of all the mafias. The fight against all the mafias is an essential element for the construction of a new Italy and the school institutions represent strategic and fundamental tools to root this memory among the younger generations, as a basis on which to build a path of awareness and root the values of justice and legality, in defense of democratic institutions. The draft law before us proposes to set up the National Day of Memory and Commitment in memory of the innocent victims of the Mafia. March 21, the first day of spring, is the symbol of the hope that is renewed. Since 1995 every 21 March we celebrate the Day of Memory and Commitment: memory to remember the innocent victims of all the mafias and commitment because the best way to remember and reject the rhetoric of memory is to commit ourselves even more. There are about 900 names of innocent victims of the mafias: simple citizens, magistrates, journalists, members of the Forces of the Order, priests, entrepreneurs, trade unionists, politicians and local administrators died at the hands of the mafias only because, with rigour and consistency, they fulfilled their duty. At this date the Free Anti-Mafia Association has for years attributed symbolic value, engaging in activities aimed at keeping alive the memory of the innocent victims of the Mafia. Next March 21 will take place in Messina and, at the same time, in many places throughout Italy the XXI Day of Memory and Commitment, in memory of the innocent victims of the mafias entitled: Remembrance bridges, Places of engagement. That memory, as emphasized by the founder of Libera don Luigi Ciotti, becomes responsible and that from the memory of the past can generate commitment and justice in the present. Reading the names of the innocent victims of the Mafia, on the same day and at the same time, will unite Messina with the many places throughout Italy and beyond. This year, in fact, the Day of remembrance and commitment in memory of the victims of the mob changes its connotation and also extends to some European capitals such as Berlin, Lausanne, Zurich and Brussels, where there are numerous initiatives in conjunction with those in our country. As every year, on the first day of spring, symbol of rebirth, the Free network, the local authorities, the realities of the third sector, schools and many citizens, together with the hundreds of family members of the victims, will find themselves in many places to remember, name by name, all the innocent dead at the hands of the mafias, creating an ideal thread of memory throughout the country, that responsible memory that, from memory, can generate propulsive action for the future. The establishment of this Day represents an opportunity to restore centrality to the theme of the fight against mafias, to promote the culture of justice and legality, to empower young people and stimulate them to a personal commitment in the defence of the values of civil coexistence. In particular, public events, ceremonies, meetings and initiatives to build a memory of the innocent victims of the mafias and the events that have characterized the recent history and the successes of the state in the policies of contrast and repression of all the mafias can be organised during this Day. Young people must be constantly testified to the example of Falcone and Borsellino, just as the flame of moral greatness and the extreme sacrifice of Don Giuseppe Diana must be revived. These figures must not become simple names with time and their daily actions and their moral standing must not be scattered with the flow of time, which brings everything into oblivion. So let us welcome manifestations and ceremonies that allow each year to reinvigorate the conviction that nothing has been in vain, not even the sacrifice of a human life. From the political and institutional point of view, much has been done in this legislature to counter any form of mafia phenomenon. In May 2015, Parliament approved the inclusion in the penal code of eco-reactors. Devastation of the territories, pollution, burial and discharges of toxic waste become for the first time in Italy crimes punishable by law and not vague faults, which have all too often seen unpunished companies and mafias responsible for the poisoning of our lands. A partial, but important, victory has been achieved in the face of a twenty-year battle against the ecocomaphies and for the ecological conversion of the current model of development; a battle that does not stop and continues to be rooted in the territories and to claim advancements. In the perspective of the economic recovery of the country and the Mezzogiorno in particular, it is necessary to continue in the action of contrast to the mafia as an economic actor. Organised crime is, in fact, an economic actor not of little importance, as evidenced by the data on the revenues of the mafias, which are equivalent to some points of GDP, with 25 billion euros of revenue from drug trafficking alone, up to the confisks for 1.3 billion in a single year. He is an actor who compromises the recovery, with a brake effect especially on the Mezzogiorno, also found by the Bank of Italy. They are mafias that change, that are constantly evolving. The most recent investigative evidence demonstrates their ability to insinuate themselves into the economic, political and institutional fabric, since the mafia method is no longer entrusted to the use of violence alone, but also to the systematic use of the weapon of corruption. In this legislature, the important crime of self-laundering has been introduced and that of electoral exchange has been revised. It is now necessary to strengthen policy and non-repressive law enforcement, intervening on some serious critical issues that are still present in the management and destination of the goods and companies seized from the mafias. Giving them back to society and territories, making it a lever of development, is an opportunity for positive reaffirmation of legality, as well as of fundamental economic and social revival. Wasting this opportunity is a boomerang for the state. For this reason, in the national reform plan contained in the 2015 DEF, the definition of a national strategy for the exploitation of confiscated property has been included. The legislative discipline needs to be improved and the efforts of all central and territorial administrations involved in this field must be coordinated, in synergy with associations such as Libera. And now we're adding another piece. The establishment of the Day for the remembrance of Mafia victims I hope is the occasion and also the pretext to put into practice the words of Peppino Impastato who, before the resignation of his people, said: If people were taught beauty, they would provide it with a weapon against resignation, fear and shame. (...) This is why people should be educated in beauty: so that in men and women no longer insinuate habit and resignation, but always remain alive curiosity and wonder. This Day of remembrance must infuse all this into young people: through the knowledge of the past, have the tenacity not to resign and continue to imagine with curiosity and amazement a better world. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u86	Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Group's vote in favour is obvious, partly because the first-signed bill by Senator Dirindin has been signed by almost all of the Group's colleagues and also other draft laws bearing their signatures. And, therefore, the vote is quite obvious. I have to say that there was a great deal of participation, even in the Commission, during the discussion of this bill and a decisive contribution was made not only by the PD Group, through various subjects, but also by the 5 Star Movement Group, especially through the presence of my colleague Moronese, whom we appreciated. And we will see also tomorrow, in an amending phase, the strong collaboration recorded. The reasons for a vote in favour are set out in the report submitted to the documents and to which I refer - I am of course referring to the report on the draft law - and have also been reported here by my colleagues in the PD. They will above all be made explicit during the explanation of vote, to which we attach particular importance, as for all measures. In the discussion of the draft laws on memory days - I am referring to the one in progress and also to the one that preceded it - some distance has been drawn from the subject. Some speakers have spoken of something else, which is absolutely legitimate, but at the moment it seems appropriate to take this opportunity to bring our reflection back to the subject in a specific way. In the meantime there is a figure to be noted: we are on the eve of 21 March and tomorrow, 17 March, we will vote on the bill a few days from that date. Monday, March 21, in fact, will be the twenty-first time that Free, Public Notice and other associations working with these two great national associations - they are the interface of the other, because Public Notice is an association of Municipalities and Free is a network of associations - will celebrate the Day of memory and commitment in memory of the innocent victims of the mafias. It will be a particularly important occasion, because not only will there be a national forum for discussion in Messina, but many other events will take place throughout Italy and some also abroad, especially in Paris, Brussels and Lausanne. It will also be the first time that a national institution will participate, through our vote. While the local institutions - I am referring in particular to the municipalities and the regions, some of which are members of the Public Notice - have always participated in the events of 21 March, we can say that this year we will be able to say that for the first time also the State in its entirety, that is, the Italian Parliament, even with the vote of a single Chamber, will participate. How is it born and what is the spirit, which we must maintain, of this manifestation? The Free Association was born in the aftermath of the deaths of Falcone and Borsellino, in the awareness that we cannot continue to live the memory of the dead and heroes and that the struggle against the Mafia needs a ransom and a collective participation, in which we know how to renounce the contribution of blood of heroes. Thus Free is born, in order to avoid having these solemn moments, often based on the blood of innocent victims, to remember and understand what the Mafia is. Of course, the pain for the deaths of Falcone and Borsellino has created many positive effects. Mr Lumia is sitting next to me, who, coming from Sicily, as well as for the role played over the years, knows well how those dead have changed the civil conscience of that Region. He also remembered a prosecutor of the Republic, a few days ago, making the distinction, which struck me very much, between the civil conscience of Sicily, after the deaths of Falcone and Borsellino, and the much rarest one, so much so that sometimes it is not fully understood, present in other regions of Italy and I refer in particular to Mafia Capital of Rome, for the misdeeds that have been lived there. Free, Public Notice and demonstrations are born to remember and give a message of responsibility for society and institutions, which must work to create awareness and civil consciousness, avoiding that there have been further deaths. However, they are also born with a very special spirit, which we must renew. Why do you read the lists of so many innocent mob deaths? They are read because collective memory cannot be nourished only by the excellent deaths, by the deaths of those who have done so much for the country. He must also feed on the death of the humble, the unknown. There are many names that remain unknown, that remain in the chronicle and that instead refer to people who have made the history of our Italy. I remember with great emotion 1996 when, as mayor of Lamezia Terme, one of the municipalities that created Libera and then Public Notice, I participated in the first demonstration of Libera, writing in that list the names of four dead who, for my city, marked the ransom. Two were workers, garbage collectors, who we wrote as innocent victims, also because this was indicated in a sentence of the judiciary, which had acquitted the alleged culprits, and on which the magistrate who had motivated it had written that they were innocent victims of the mafia. And two were police inspectors who had been killed. This story, which led to the dissolution of the municipality, is a local history, but is repeated in many places in Italy. Many are the names that have been written over the years, all the names of people who in some way have been certified by judicial investigations, by collective conscience, because that list contains only the names of innocent people - that is why we use this word - of which society can write that they are victims of mafia and, therefore, obviously victims without spot. It is true that we must have mercy on all the dead, but the history of anti-mafia must be cemented and built on the history of the innocent and the victims that continue to exist. I can quote - for example - a case we are dealing with with Deputy Minister Bubbico, whom I see here and which reminds me of. I think of Filippo Ceravolo, who we recently recognized as a Mafia victim, a 19-year-old boy killed by accident. In that list of thousands of people who are mentioned there are above all (but not only) Falcone and Borsellino, whose names rightly still evoke inside us sensations of terror and strong emotions. But there are also all the names of people who have overwhelmed entire families in the territory, who have educated and can continue to educate our young people in one very simple thing: the mafia brings only death, desolation and despair to families. There is no charm that can transmit the mob, even when it apparently gives little money in the regions where there is no occupation. That's not work. The Mafia only distributes death. That list reminds us of this: it is a list of deaths, so that we all remember what the Mafia is capable of producing on our territory. Therefore, this demonstration and also the participation of the State (participation that has always been through ministers and parliamentarians) through this vote means that collectively we realize how in the schools of Italy and in Italian society we need to cultivate memory in order to avoid continuing to ask our magistrates, our policemen, the good people to live with the fear of the mafia. On the contrary, we must safeguard these values and ensure that those who work on the territory are able to support them also in their security and to ensure in our territory a true contrast to the Mafia. I conclude by saying that in the last few hours and days there is so much talk of anti-mafia facade. It is really very serious that in so many episodes it has emerged that various associations and different personalities who have spent in this field have not resisted the test of the facts. This is very serious. In this case, however, we are faced not with people but with institutions, which cannot fail. The vote of Parliament, before the Senate and then of the House, will not necessarily fail, because the institutions have a positive attitude to the fact that they are institutions in themselves and it is not those who represent them to be a guarantee of the nobility of the battle. The PD Group will therefore vote in favour of this measure, and with this vote we are convinced that we are making our small or great contribution - let us say we want to - to the fight against organised crime and to the rooting of the values of legality and anti-mafia. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Mussini and Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u88	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u89	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-594.ana.u90	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 17 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.34 p.m.
