ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr BERGER, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2081, 14, 197, 239, 314, 909, 1211, 1231, 1316, 1360, 1745, 1763, 2069 and 2084. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting, a proposal was tabled not to move on to the discussion of the articles and the general debate ended. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the Government will not respond to such a complex and rich debate, partly because, as you know, there are different positions in the Government itself and in the majority supporting it, as well as in all the parliamentary groups, on such a sensitive and sensitive subject, which calls into question individual consciences. However, we have followed this debate very closely, and that is why I am obliged to thank all the senators who have spoken, with very deep passages, as I believe the questions underlying the legislation in question are profound. The hope is that this work and this debate will continue in the course of the votes, with the effort to recognize the part of truth that exists also in positions other than one's own. This invitation is not rhetorical, but is linked to the fact that, when politics is called to venture into such a delicate terrain that calls into question consciences, that sees different sensibilities expressed and that above all affects the most intimate dimension of human life, I believe it is important that the way in which this discussion develops takes into account the possible impact and relevance of the words that are used. I have to say that, so far, this debate has largely fulfilled this objective. The Government will not express a political assessment of the various amendments that will be brought to the discussion, except a technical assessment of some, when clearly not in conformity with European and constitutional jurisprudence. He will return to the House's assessment of the others. I am only obliged to point out, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, that this legislation, whatever the assessment that this branch of Parliament will give on the individual points and then finally the legislator as a whole, arises from the need to fill a legislative gap reported by several entities in the jurisdiction and authoritatively indicated by the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights. The hope is therefore that this important work, carried forward whatever the position was, can still find a result and can give the country certain norms, in an area of such great importance and of such great importance. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the examination of the proposal not to proceed to the examination of the articles to which Senator Sacconi added his signature. Ladies and gentlemen, a request for a secret ballot pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure has been made by the required number of senators on the proposal not to move to the Rules of Procedure. Recalling that the draft law in question contains provisions for the regulation of civil unions between persons of the same sex and the discipline of cohabitations, the Presidency notes that the issue of the regulation of such unions falls not so much within the scope of Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Constitution - several times recalled both in the premises of the agenda of the non-passionate examination of the articles, and in a memory deposited at the same time as the request for a secret ballot - but within the scope of Article 2 of the Constitution, according to which the Republic recognises and guarantees the inviolable rights of man, both as a single person, and in the social formations where his personality takes place. In fact, the Constitutional Court, in its famous judgment No 138 of 2010, placed the aforementioned Article 2 of the Constitution at the centre of its arguments. In particular, in specifying the concrete meaning of this provision, the Court clarified that: "social formation must mean any form of community, simple or complex, capable of allowing and promoting the free development of the person in relation life, in the context of a valorisation of the pluralistic model. This concept also includes homosexual union, understood as a stable coexistence between two persons of the same sex, whose fundamental right to live freely as a couple, obtaining legal recognition with the related rights and duties - in the times, in the manner and within the limits laid down by law. However, as far as the rules governing such unions are concerned, the Constitutional Court has unequivocally ruled out that: "the aspiration to such recognition - which necessarily postulates a general discipline aimed at regulating the rights and duties of the members of the couple - can only be achieved through the equivalence of homosexual unions to marriage." It follows, again in the opinion of the Court, that: "in the field of application of Article 2 of the Constitution, it is for Parliament, in exercising its full discretion, to identify the forms of guarantee and recognition for the above-mentioned unions, while remaining reserved to the Constitutional Court the possibility of intervening in the protection of specific situations (as happened in the case of more uxory cohabitations: judgments Nos 559 of 1989 and 404 of 1988) ", which in fact constitute the object of Chapter II of the draft law. On the other hand, in the same judgment, the Court pointed out that while it is true that the concepts of family and marriage cannot be considered crystallised with reference to the time when the Constitution came into force, nevertheless, "interpretative elasticity cannot go so far as to affect the core of the norm by modifying it in such a way as to include phenomena and problems not considered in any way when it was issued". Precisely because the constituent Fathers had the family provisions dictated by the then very recent civil code of 1942, it follows that the scope of application of Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Constitution can be affected by the provisions of the bill only where they question the principles of recognition, guarantee and protection provided for by the aforementioned constitutional norms. However, the provision of further forms of recognition, guarantee and protection is without prejudice to those provided by the Constitution and the subsequent legislation of detail in favour of the family, marriage and children. In fact, the relevance of the provisions contained in the draft law to Articles 29, 30 and 31 does not even come to an overall examination of the text. With regard to Chapter I, concerning civil unions between persons of the same sex, the fact that, for reasons of pure legislative technique, also in order to avoid duplication and redundancy of the existing legislation, it was intended to refer to institutions already consolidated by novel legislation, does not at all determine the alleged relevance of the measures envisaged with the principles that have long governed the family as a natural society based on marriage. It is in fact easy to verify that the legislation on family, marriage and adoptions remains completely unaffected, if not intact, by providing for only some extensions of application justified by a basic analogy which, for express clarification of the Constitutional Court, cannot or must be translated into automatic equivalence. In other words, the bill, while regulating a matter that is certainly similar to that protected by Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Constitution, attributes legal recognition and discipline to phenomena that have not hitherto been regulated by the legislator without affecting the family in any way. With regard then to the discipline of the cohabitations of fact, also in this case the bill aims to regulate phenomena already the subject of numerous interventions from both the legislator and the jurisprudence, without that it has ever determined a limitation or a compression of the guarantees that the Constitution places towards the family and its manifestations, according to the cited articles 29, 30 and 31. The secret ballot cannot be granted, not only by making a ruling on the overall content of the text, but above all by the fact that the discipline of the social formations where the individual's personality takes place - and these certainly include families not based on marriage - finds its constitutional foundation in Article 2, which is not included in the mandatory provisions for which the secret vote can be granted. In conclusion, the measure under consideration by the Assembly does not concern the recognition of a factual reality contrary to the safeguards and guarantees provided for in Articles 29 et seq. of the Constitution, but attributes legal effects to the legitimate manifestation of the consent between subjects who, in their free volitional determination, constitute a reality deemed worthy of protection, to any effect, in the general and exhaustive context of the aforementioned article 2 of the constitutional dictation, by virtue of which the index of imputation of the effects cannot but be found in the declaration expressed by the directly concerned, to a non-degraded truce with respect to the same obligations contracted to third parties. Consequently, the request for a secret ballot cannot be accepted. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u9	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is curious to hear a negative response from a request for a secret ballot. Mr President, I believe that there is a mistake of departure. You deny the vote by secret ballot (then I will argue why), because from the beginning we have called apple a pear, and since the secret vote is allowed for apple and not pear, we cannot do so; however we are in the presence of an apple. Since we are talking about marriage and not about something different, I have tabled a proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles at my first signature (I want to stress this because I see that there are colleagues who attribute their paternity, but to Mr Quagliariello I say that if you are opposed to surrogate motherhood, you must also be opposed to the "surrogate" amendments and to the mugging of them to others). I submitted it by signing a request for a secret vote with 74 colleagues (therefore a particularly heartfelt request). Precisely because I knew that I could not exclude this climbing on the mirrors to deny the secret vote, I prepared a six-page memory (in which, article by article, it is clearly not explained that the Cirinna law mainly refers to the subjects provided for in article 113, fourth paragraph, of our Rules of Procedure, but that the totality of the arguments of such legislation refers to the law of the family), which I request is attached to the shorthand report of today's sitting. It is also worth remembering that there is an electronic vote on the non-turn to the articles, so the secret vote is also predictable. We have precedents: in the constituent assembly an agenda was voted by secret vote; we have precedents before 1997 in the Chamber and, the last one, right here in the Senate, during the discussion on a law that would have wanted the abolition by the Chambers of the life sentence (so not the introduction, but the exunction of the order of life sentence). This is because our Rules of Procedure, unlike the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, speak of resolutions that adhere to civil and ethical-social relations, not that they affect the articles, so the wording is much more open. From this point of view, therefore, I would have expected, given the very wide prevalence of the subject of secret voting, that you had decided to consent to this vote in order to finally show and hear, in the freedom of secret voting, how Parliament feels about this matter. I am surprised at your reply, Mr President: I did not see that coming. I'm sorry, before I called it a climb on the mirrors and even the length of your answer proves it; it's a political choice, which you wanted to take alone. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia]] Our Rules of Procedure, on the other hand, provide that, in the event of uncertainty as to the prevalence of a subject, you may consult the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. In that place you could have made Pontius Pilate, so much the majority is very wide because there is also the addition of the members of the 5 Star Movement and SEL, which would have contributed to the no to the secret vote, and should not have taken sides anywhere. Unfortunately, the attitude you have taken is different and I hope it is a spontaneous attitude. I do not know if he had the opportunity to watch the Sanremo festival last night: we even have a public radio service that, with guests and singers, tries to support and promote civil unions and de facto couples. I do not expect from the public television service of the entrances on such delicate topics, but much less did I expect for his part an attitude that reminds me of the passage of Manzoni, where there is the encounter between the good of Don Rodrigo and Don Abbondio, when the latter is told "this marriage is not to be done, neither tomorrow, nor never." Unfortunately, you have assumed - or rather, you have married, given the subject we are talking about - the attitude of Don Abbondio, on the contrary: this marriage has to be done, from tomorrow and always. Because it's about marriage. I have heard so many speeches from my colleagues and although I am not an expert on family law one thing is clear. You can call it pear or apple, with whatever term you want, but I asked myself some simple questions by listening to the lawyers and former magistrates present. How is this civil union constituted? According to the same arrangements for marriage (the civil one obviously: we did not put the priest, luckily, but maybe someone would also want to put it there). How does civil union melt? According to the same procedures for divorce and separation. What are the rights and obligations for the members of civil unions? The same applies to spouses, i.e. to their wives and husbands. What are the successor rights? The same applies to family matters. What are the preventative causes? The same ones that resist marriage [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]] So, what is this stuff, except the gay wedding? It was also intended to make a further addition, because this damage was not enough. It was intended to introduce - also called an Anglo-Saxon term, which is even more complicated in the text because it is a continuous reference to other articles and other paragraphs - the so-called stepchild adoption, that is, the adoption of the stepson... [[Comments from the PD Group]] Sorry if I have more common ground with normal things than with the abnormal things that you put in the laws. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] I'm a pretty traditionalist, and I'd like everyone to have a mom and dad if they're lucky enough to have them to the end. [[Applause from Senator Cardiello.]] I don't agree that there are two dads or two moms. Surely I can come to think that, in the case of a child born of a previous heterosexual relationship, someone thinks about it, but even predict it also for heterologous fertilization or for so-called surrogate motherhood is a real aberration. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] It is true that there is no legalization of a practice that is however illegitimate and illegal, but one goes to legalize those that are the fruits of that practice; and this in my house is no longer called the uterus for rent, but the purchase of children. Period. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and Senators De Pin and Rossi Maurizio]] I would like to read a quotation made at the time of the referendum on assisted fertilization, which said: "We made a market for fertilization." It is an epochal transformation: the life that once belonged to religion, homeland, revolution, now belongs to the market. We talk about it like a coach talks about his team, like something you can dispose of. We manipulated life, cloned it, reproduced it in a test tube, bought and sold. We privatised it. And we know where the privatised things end: not to a person with a surname and smell, but to an anonymous company with a stopover on the Cayman Islands. He is not Monsignor Bagnasco; These are the words of Beppe Grillo said eleven years ago, and I must say that Grillo saw it long; perhaps also for this reason he took the name from the symbol: there will be some reason. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and Senators De Pin and Rossi Maurizio]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I believe that there was a need to respond also to the rights and duties of gay couples, and it could be done quietly by establishing in Chapter II that de facto couples could also be extended to homosexual couples, but to give an answer to 7,000 couples - and perhaps to a few hundred children - one cannot have made a law that does not go to give answers to 1,422,000 de facto heterosexual families and their 151,000 children, who cannot even be adopted! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and Senators De Pin and Rossi Maurizio]] This is a racist law against heterosexuality and normality. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and Senators De Pin and Rossi Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u12	GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Mr President, I would like to stick to the regulatory aspects of the matter that we are dealing with for a few minutes, with reference to the decision you have made to this House. You see, Mr President, I find this decision to be serious from a formal point of view, regardless of what my beliefs are in this matter, which I shall have the opportunity to express from the moment I speak on the amendments to Article 1. There was a very broad debate in this House, which lasted a few days, and which was the reflection of an even wider debate that took place in the country, which had - among other things - major civil demonstrations in which values were opposed. You see, the fact that this matter affects the issues of the family, the fact that civil unions can be considered a surrogate marriage, the fact that providing for unions for homosexuals and contracts for heterosexuals means in practice going to a marriage, were the arguments that divided this Assembly and that are dividing the country, and are dividing it on opposing values. Among other things, I must say that, having been left free of conscience, we have also seen a debate that has sometimes crossed the parliamentary groups. I have taken note of this debate as a mere member of this House, I have tried to follow it and, as far as possible, to understand the reasons of my opponents. I did so by being a little in this House and a lot in front of the television, and I realized that, in fact, this is one of the great issues that is breaking this House and which divides the country. We have to try to handle this in the "most civilized" way, trying to understand the reasons of others. Mr President, if I may say so, I do not think it was a good start that you, who are not just a member of this House but who presides over it and is a referee, decided, with an interpretation - which seemed to be a substitute for the Constitutional Court and which in some way anticipated the verdict - who was right and who was wrong. You have already said everything; you have solved the problem. He took part in a civil competition that animated the entire Chamber, with all members who, in their eyes, should have the same protection. I share the view of Senator Calderoli: this was a decision which was at least the responsibility of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure because there is no doubt that there is at least a long debate to be held on whether or not this matter is to be dealt with. I will demonstrate to you, by intervening on the amendments to Article 1 - I do not want to anticipate anything here - how your arguments are likely to counter equally strong, if not stronger, arguments. President, I assure you that starting this issue and this sitting with a referee who took part is not a good feeling. I believe that as I think not only the senators who have my ideas, but also those who would like there to be no pre-constitutional solutions here and who can still be debated and perhaps try to understand the reasons of others. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u15	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out that Forza Italia will vote in favour of this proposal not to go through the articles but not because we are opposed to any kind of recognition of civil unions; on the contrary, we are in favour of it, which is why if we had agreed on a whole series of rights and prerogatives to be given to couples of the same sex and of different sex, we would have already finished this work and would have allowed a moment of unity of all in this House and outside and then, if anyone had requested it, possibly go on with a discussion which is possibly in depth and on the substance of things on which there is no agreement. In the Commission, however, we have found a complete closure: we have not even received agendas, including, for example, the agenda which asked the Government to continue to defend and reserve priority for parents in their choices regarding the teaching and education of children. Even this agenda has been rejected. It is clear that, in the face of total closure, we do not see the possibility of a change that transforms this law, that can only fit us in the title, in something that goes well in substance. Then, Mr President, in explaining some of the reasons, among other things, why we do not agree with this text, I will stress that all this is about marriage. That is why, Mr President, I am and are concerned about your decision not to grant the secret vote. I would remind you that the Rules of Procedure on secret voting are very clear, because it says that it is intended on matters relating to a number of articles of the Constitution, including Articles 29 and 30. Article 29 in particular concerns marriage. As has been said, in the draft law under consideration there is no name "marriage" but there is substance. For example, everyone knows the articles of the civil code that are read during marriage, whether celebrated in church or civil. The first two are precisely Articles 143 and 144, which are included in their content, without mentioning them, in the draft law under consideration. Article 143 is in fact paraphrased by paragraph 1 of Article 3 of the bill, which says that "With the constitution of the civil union between persons of the same sex the parties acquire the same rights and assume the same duties." Well, Article 143 of the Civil Code says that "With marriage the husband and wife acquire the same rights and assume the same duties." Therefore, the text also contains the same wording. In paragraph 2 of Article 143 of the Civil Code, on marriage, it is said that "From marriage comes the mutual obligation to fidelity, to moral and material assistance, to collaboration in the interests of the family and to cohabitation" and article 3 of the bill Cirinna says that: "from civil union derives the mutual obligation to fidelity, moral and material assistance and cohabitation." Paragraph 3 of Article 143 of the Civil Code provides that: Both spouses are required, each in relation to their own substances and to their own professional or housework capacity, to contribute to the needs of the family and the bill to our examination, Article 3, paragraph 1, provides that "Both parties are required, each in relation to their own substances and to their own professional and housework capacity, to contribute to the common needs." During the celebration of the wedding, we read article 144 of the Civil Code, according to which: The spouses agree with each other the address of family life and establish the residence of the family according to the needs of both and the prominent family itself. Paragraph 2 of Article 3 of the draft law states that: The Parties agree with each other on the address of family life and establish the common residence of each of the Parties shall be empowered to implement the agreed address of each Party, which shall reproduce the wording of the second paragraph of Article 144 of the Civil Code. Is it enough, then, to change the name of things, so that the substantive guarantees provided for in the Rules of Procedure are removed? [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups. Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] I am concerned because we are talking here today about civil unions and marriage, but among the articles for which the Regulation provides for the guarantee of the secret vote there are those concerning personal freedom, inviolability of the domicile, inviolability of correspondence, the right of citizens to peacefully meet, religious freedom and many others; will it suffice then to say that a law that, for example, abolishes religious freedom, is made for cultural reasons to ensure that it is no longer religious matter and can be voted, perhaps under threats and without secret vote? [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]] Mr President, you are the referee of this game and it is always in time to take a decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I go ahead: to Article 3 of the bill at our examination, paragraph 3 says that "To the civil union between persons of the same sex the provisions of various sections of Title VI of the Civil Code apply. Title VI is titled "The Marriage." GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Bravo, President! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Then it says that some articles apply including 116. Very interesting: Article 116 deals with the marriage of the foreigner. This means that those who establish a civil union, in addition to the bonus of reversibility, can also pass citizenship to a foreigner. Perhaps we will empty the identification and expulsion centers, as Senator D'Alì said, because they will all pass through the offices of the registry! [[Applause from the groups FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and LN-Aut.]] Moving forward, all the articles concerning marriage taken from Chapter VI of the Civil Code, which is entitled "The patrimonial regime of the family" are recalled. It refers to the rules governing the patrimonial regime between spouses, the form of matrimonial conventions, the simulation of matrimonial conventions and so on. If by chance something had escaped, paragraph 4 says that all provisions relating to marriage and provisions containing the words "marriage" and "marriage" also apply to civil unions. So if this isn't about Article 29, what does it have to do with it? [[Applause from the groups FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and LN-Aut.]] If this institution is different from marriage, what is different? There is a diversity: publications are not foreseen. Publications are a guarantee, they are a kind of burden on the couple that wants to marry, so that if someone has something to say they can speak or keep quiet forever. There are no publications and this is an advantage over marriage. Then there is the whole second part of this bill, which deals with coexistence and, goodness to them, is also granted to heterosexual couples to access this second part. It concerns, as has been said, one and a half million couples, and consequently 3 million citizens, and at least 150,000 children, and this is dealt with by a part of the measure which has not even been touched on in the Commission and which, in my opinion, is badly written, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also said, not with an opinion from the opposition, but with an opinion, I believe, unanimous or at least majority. In fact, this part does not provide guarantees, on the contrary, provides for uncertainty: it will be the magistrate who will determine whether two persons have a link worthy of legal protection or not and not those persons. It's crazy, but it's only about 3 million Italians! [[Applause from the groups FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and LN-Aut.]] Is it only about 3 million Italians, with 150,000 children? Who cares? You have to move on and why? You don't understand why you have to go on at all costs. There would be much more to say, but that is enough. We add that one of the three articles of the civil code that are linked to marriage was missing, article 147, relating to the duties to children and that we find in article 5, with the famous adoption of the stepson (this is the name in Italian), which means to impose on a child two fathers or two mothers. The vast majority of citizens are against this, but unfortunately it seems that there is a different percentage in the media and in this House: some problem should arise who represents this diversity. [[Applause from the groups FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and LN-Aut. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u17	You have it, Senator Giovanardi, but I remind you that Senator Quagliariello has already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u18	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Mr President, I will waste very little time on you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Time is never lost in this House. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). You have already lost time when you have confused the files, because tomorrow we will present a conflict of attribution to the Constitutional Court directly. Members know, in fact, and the country must know that the draft law 2081, which we are debating, in the Justice Commission has not been examined for a minute, totally violating the mandatory requirement of Article 72 of the Constitution, which obliges the Commission to examine before going to the Chamber. So, President, you've already left badly, violating the Constitution. There is a consistent case-law that Article 72 should be respected. Then he went on very badly. In fact, what colleagues have said is not enough. Do you understand that Presidents and former Presidents of the Constitutional Court, in public appeals, have pointed out that this text overlaps completely with Article 29 of the Constitution, and therefore is totally illegitimate from the point of view of the Constitution in force, and with what the Constitutional Court has told us to do? I'm talking about second-floor characters like Flik, like Mirabelli, like Maddalena and Santosuosso. And in front of these appeals, signed by hundreds of other presidents of sections of the Council of State, of great lawyers and of great university professors, you come here to read us a pappardella in which you say that all the discussion done in the country and in the Chamber, unfortunately not in the Commission, on this subject has nothing to do with marriage? But have you listened to the speeches made by colleagues, both those who are against it and those who have explained, even within the Democratic Party, that if this text so formulated passes, does a formula actually pass that overlaps with that of marriage? You come to tell us this, after denying the Senate the opportunity to discuss in the Commission this articulate, a new articulate but seen by no one, a heart attack of legal errors and contradictions. Explain to me why an unmarried couple with two or three children cannot have a survivor's pension, even if they have lived together for three years, while a couple of men who marry, in reality, through a civil union, have instead the right to reversibility. Explain to me if it has nothing to do with constitutional principles, a principle of this kind! [[Applause from the Divine Senators, Volpi and Rizzotti]] What's he gonna tell us, then? I wonder: but when he was a magistrate, did he do it like this? [[Protests from the PD Group.]] This is a question mark, because if this is the way to deal with sensitive issues, to deny the evidence, it means that the President does not do his job! I had the honour of being presided over by Senator Napolitano when he was President of the House. I have followed the great Presidents like Fanfani and like Nilde Iotti, who really carried out their task as President who, as Mr Violante has always explained to us, is not to protect a majority, which protects itself, nor to pass the incredible principle that, since the majority assembly takes some decisions, these would be sacred, even when they violate the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. Therefore, you have not flattened yourself on the role of President: you are the silly servant of the majority and do not protect the minority! CARDINALI (PD). Stop! GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). And this is before such an important and delicate law, which deals with anguished topics such as the uterus for rent, the commodification of the human body and the sale abroad, made also by senators, of children with 120,000 euros? The fact that Parliament cannot vote in secret is a disgrace, not on us, but certainly on you. [[Applause from Senators Candiani, Volpi and Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u19	Senator Giovanardi, your offense is a medal. Thank you!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u20	[[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senators Giovanardi and Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u23	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I have to say that being in this House makes me more and more disappointed. I very much agree with the fact that this article 3 is a discussion article, but I would like to understand one thing. I would like to know how a legislator could write an article 3 if we start from two fundamental points. The first is the following. In January 2013, following the guidance of the Court of Strasbourg, the Supreme Court opened the possibility that children had been raised by gay couples. This was not said by the Senate, but by the Court of Cassation. In November 2013, the court of minors in Bologna legitimized the adoption of a child by a single girl in the United States. In August 2014, the court of minors in Rome established the possibility of adoption by the biological mother of the partner's daughter, i.e. she legitimized practically the so-called stepchild adoption. In February 2015, the Supreme Court decreed that the union between persons of the same sex may acquire a degree of protection and protection comparable to those of marriage, even if the Italian law does not allow two homosexuals to marry. Then comes, in July 2015, the Supreme Court of Strasbourg, an independent body of the European Union, but binding for Italy, which reaffirms that our country violates human rights by not providing for any form of recognition of gay couples. The Court states that the lack of legislators is particularly serious because, in breach of the Constitutional Court's judgments reiterated over time, it potentially undermines the responsibility of the judiciary. Now, a legislator who has to write an article 3 based not on the desire of gay couples (which some of you are treated with even worse epithets), but on the need to defend the minor who, in one way or another, is indefensible on his part, what should he write? Do you have to write that with the constitution of the civil union between persons of the same sex the parties do not acquire the same rights, do not assume the same duties and can do whatever the hell they want because, so much, this is not a marriage? You have to write that, because it's a civil union, the parties can unite today and separate tomorrow, and if one of them happens to have a son, who gives a damn? But what world are we living in? But is this a normal country or is it a country that has lost its mind, simply because someone sees in this situation the possibility of having a greater or lesser amount of votes or is he afraid to go against his electorate? [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] The fact that Beppe Grillo said one thing twelve months ago, ten months ago, he said another, and now tell us another, must he prevent us from voting on Article 3? I think we're really raving madness here. I repeat, Mr President, that we must not be afraid of voting on such a thing. If there is someone who, out of fear, hides behind the secret vote or thinks that, through the secret vote, some would not vote for these things, I think we have really fallen down. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u26	D'ASCOLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I understand, but correct me if I am wrong, that we are discussing both issues related to the secret vote and the issue of whether or not we are going to pass through the articles. So if you do not correct me, I will allow myself, in a very brief way, to speak on both issues. Starting from the question of secret voting, there is no doubt, at least this is my very modest opinion, that the two institutions, that of civil unions and that of marriage, are completely overlapping. They are also superimposed on an obvious question for all legal practitioners: the technique of referral, which has been frequently used, inevitably determines the full acquisition of that provision, not only in its contentistic meaning (we could say on the side of the substance), but also as a receptive referral to the entire, even formal, content of that particular provision. Well, referrals, which are repeated, to 32 regulations of marriage are absolutely unequivocal in this regard. The methods of celebration are identical, the methods of cessation are identical, the impediments are identical. There is also an equivalence clause: any provision of primary or secondary rank in which the word "marriage" or "marriage" appears must be understood to be integrated by the different expressions "partners " or "partners " of civil unions. Then, we have a postponement that determines the acquisition of the discipline of marriage on the side of all the constituent components that concern it. Quoting here - but we could do so - Article 14 of the ECHR, i.e. the rule that contains the prohibition of discrimination, would only move the emphasis on the substantive aspect of the discipline, but I hope that it will enrich the subject of the debate, since, in any case, we understand things, the rule that is already available to the national judicial authority, but more so for the European judicial authority, means that what a great jurist called the label scams is not allowed, that is to say that, beyond the definitions and despite the diversity of definitions, if it is a marriage to that reality of substance, I will have to bend, in the sense of recognizing that we are before a marriage. But, I repeat, the speech here is superfluous, because the repeated use of the discipline of referring to the corresponding norm of the civil code, I would say that eliminates the problem for anyone. I would therefore like to make one point. With great respect I listened to the report which denied the secret vote because this would be a discipline built on Article 2 and not even on Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Constitution. But allow me, Mr President, to make a point: the sameness of discipline is an event, that is, the result of an interpretation of the rules. We can say that two general disciplines are superimposed once we have examined the rules that constitute that discipline article by article. On the contrary, we have followed a kind of reversal of the method: we have said that the discipline, which we have not analysed and which we will still have to analyse, is a discipline which - by definition, it would appear - falls within Article 2 and not even Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Constitution. Then it is spoiled, if I am allowed to use this past participle, precisely the reasoning that comes to a conclusion that is not legitimized by an analysis of the norms, which I would say is missing altogether. And here I return to the intervention of Senator Malan, who illustrated better than I the similitude of a discipline that leads to an inevitable response. It is not only a matter of substance, but I would say earlier, as a result of the technique of referral, of a formal provision completely comparable to marriage. It has to be said that they have explained to us that there is always a few women who can show you that things are the opposite of what you have represented. So, in order to take account of the alternative solutions, of the possible overturned faces of every phenomenon that every speaker should take on, we have to ask ourselves about this: was there a possibility of a different solution? In short, in some folds of the speech it seemed that it could not be done otherwise and that the solution of the referral to marriage was obliged, because there are similarities that involved the need to resort to the discipline of marriage. Apart from the fact that we cannot speak of similarities when 32 fundamental provisions on marriage are fully recalled: it is not similitude, it is clearly a situation of total steadiness. But it must be said that already the discipline of contracts, the legislative texts that our Parliament, even in previous legislation, has known, the amendments that have been tabled, the possibility of building on the lines of contracts that lie in other modern countries (that no one dreams of being silent of vetusity, retrievability, ties, would not be known then why, suspected of "gravity" with the past), nevertheless they foresee them. So there was the alternative solution. From the alternative solution we draw, for that necessary game of contrast, the affirmation, that we allow ourselves to do with absolute humility, of a different possibility to solve the problem. But, as I said, not only is there a question of Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Constitution, rather than of Article 2, with a specific reference to the mode of voting, there is also a question of not changing to the articles, if it is true that the two issues have finally mixed up and that therefore no one thinks of disturbing the work of the Senate then asking to intervene on a question that can be dealt with in the same way as the context of a single intervention, as I think I can do. There are many things we can say about this, but a minimum of experience teaches that there are some really essential points in every story, the only ones, we might say, that are worth discussing. Then, of course, every speaker also attaches importance to things that do not actually possess it and it is in the experience of those who regulate the debate to go and say, in this case: "Dear Senator, you are talking about something that you cannot talk about." At this juncture, obedience to the President's intervention is not only a rule, but a duty for those who seriously believe in the institutions. Well, here the point of the matter is one: the non-transition to the examination of the articles is useful for a reflection, because our Rules of Procedure provide that for six months the House should reflect, but it cannot officially entertain itself on the subject. Thus, a space of reflection is determined. The question, which in a certain sense could turn into a counter-objection, demolishing the request for no transition to the examination of the articles, in my humble opinion could be this: what reason would justify this pause for reflection? I think I can answer this question, even though I am aware that I myself have asked the question and that I myself have answered a question that I myself have introduced (a sui generis situation in a certain sense, but those who debate obviously cannot dialogue, must imagine and imply the objection that can be made to it, and imagine it involves the possibility of errors, of which I would of course apologise in advance). I think the reason is clear: there is a situation of great division, which is not just legal. Here we must not fall into the naive error of thinking that right is the tool for resolving conflicts of conscience. Who knows the conflicts of conscience, also with reference to the title of a historical book that is in the legal literature in a position of primacy, knows well that the conflict of conscience exorbitates from the scheme of law (sure, it must feed on the law because otherwise it would be a affirmation of conflict that would not be based on anything). Well, there is no doubt that Parliament is divided, but it is not only Parliament that is divided; the political parties themselves are divided, a demonstration that that debate that has not been held in the Commission, perhaps these harshness could have resolved them. Mr President, I do not take this statement from a subjective conviction (which would be worth zero) but from the amendments, because we have amendments relating to different policy areas and to the political group itself, which lead in opposite directions. If this is an objective situation that I believe no one can deny, if there is a serious situation of conflict of conscience - and I would say that if there were no serious conflict of conscience in this Parliament, this would be a Parliament without any seriousness and legitimacy, because such a matter must (and I stress three times) create conflicts of conscience and cannot be regulated through the lazy placement of every senator within a political party - if this is the reality, a reality which we know, beyond what appears from the text of the amendments, I believe that this request for no passage in the examination of the articles is also strongly justified. In this sense I announce, in an explanation of vote this time, the favorable vote of the People's Area Group, which I honor to represent. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u29	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have a feeling that I share with many of my colleagues who have spoken at this stage of the debate, which is that of concern. For example, when I have listened to my colleague, Mr President of the Commission, I am concerned that I have also heard the presentation by Senator Calderoli of the proposal not to pass on to the articles, for reasons, for tones, for ways, almost as if the feeling that is determined was that in reality it was here that it did not want to make a law, that it did not want to give answers to the country, simply: that it did not want to do our duty. The Democratic Party Group is opposed to the request that Senator Calderoli should not pass on his articles. The proposal, in fact, also leaves me doubts as to its eligibility under Rules 95 and 96 of the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, the content of the proposal essentially reproduces - and, in some parts, literally - the content of certain questions referred for a preliminary ruling with reference to the same draft law No 2081 and already rejected by the Assembly. But on that, of course, I don't want to insist. We, Mr President, take note of your decisions, we respect them and, indeed, I would like to thank you for the balance you are taking in this difficult parliamentary debate. [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Having said that, we do not hesitate to respond, point by point, to the observations contained in the proposal for a non-version to the examination of articles, first of all with reference to the alleged violation of Article 72 of the Constitution. We must remember the intense work done by the Justice Commission and I am therefore puzzled by the speech I heard a few minutes ago: an important work of the Justice Commission, which lasts over 70 sessions, a year of work, so that, on the substance, these are issues which are widely addressed, in depth, also during the numerous hearings that have been held. With regard to the failure to appoint a rapporteur to the Assembly to outline the lines of the debate that emerged in the Commission, it is recalled that the text in question essentially reproduces the content of the last unified text of the rapporteur's text to the Commission, takes into account the findings that emerged during the hearings and makes few and limited changes and rewordings, the result, among other things, of wide-ranging sharing, aimed mainly at taking into account the observations that emerged during the long debate which took place during the following months of discussion. Rather, the adoption of the basic text for the consideration in the Chamber of the Senate Act 2081 and its timetable are procedural instruments that are constantly being used in parliamentary practice to ensure that the work carried out in the Commission has been laboriously carried out. [[Comments of Senator Caliendo]] The ratio, in fact, is to avoid that the constructive commitment of months of work is in fact frustrated and that the attempt at obstructionism put in place blocks the process of a measure that, in the overall system, shows the will to go ahead of the majority of the parliamentary forces. Therefore, the reference to Article 72 of the Constitution, which in the present case cannot be considered to be infringed, is entirely instrumental. The legislative procedure adopted, therefore, is completely consistent with the constitutional provisions and the accusation of harm to parliamentary powers is absolutely unfounded. With reference, then, to the alleged violation of Article 29 of the Constitution, it must immediately be pointed out that the draft law under consideration is aimed at establishing civil union between persons of the same sex as specific social formation, which finds its constitutional foundation in Article 2 and not in Article 29. It is essentially a new institution, deserving of legal protection, regulated autonomously and separately - also from the technical and legislative point of view - by the matrimonial institution. This we strongly emphasize, and he who spoke well knew this principle. The Constitutional Court, in its judgment n. 138 of 2010, has brought back into the beehive of Article 2 of the Constitution, as a specific social formation within which human personality takes place, homosexual union, understood as a stable coexistence between persons of the same sex, to which it is the fundamental right to live freely a condition of couple obtaining, in the times and in the ways established by law, legal recognition with the related rights and duties. In essence, it has addressed a precise warning to the legislator - to all of us - to take the initiative to introduce a specific discipline that regulates these unions on the civil level, identifying an alternative form that allows the homosexual couple to obtain legal recognition and adequate protection. Hence, the bill under consideration moves correctly in this direction, establishing civil union as a specific alternative institution to marriage. There is therefore no incompatibility with Article 29 of the Constitution. With reference, then, to the alleged violation of Article 31 of the Constitution on the adoption of the partner's son, it is noted that the provisions of Article 5 of the bill in question adapt the positive right to consolidated case law of merit, according to which the sexual orientation of the adoptor cannot constitute an obstacle to the adoption in particular cases provided for by our law if the same responds to the interests of the child. The welfare of the child, to whom adoption must tend, in fact, is not linked to the form of the family group in which it is included, but to the quality of the relationships that are established there. As the judgment of the Court of Appeal of Rome itself clarifies, it is not a question of responding, by virtue of the existing relationship of couple, to the need for recognition of a bio-parentiality, but of assessing the link between the child and the parent's partner, recognizing the primacy, for the growth of the child, of the superior interest of the child to affective continuity. The legal recognition of the relationship also with respect to the social parent guarantees the child the rights of care, care, inheritance, and guarantees, in case of separation or intervention inability or death of the biological parent, the continuity of the exercise of parental responsibility. Finally, with reference to the feared risk - in my opinion, feared as instrumental - of the legitimization and incentive of the recourse to the practice of surrogate motherhood, it is pointed out that the practice is already banned and severely punished by Article 12 of Law No 40 of 2004, nor if it can be assumed that the provisions of the bill are in fact authorized a legitimacy of the same, which instead remains sanctioned under the aforementioned provision. I would also like to mention the speech made in this House by President Finocchiaro. It is an intervention that unites the Democratic Party and can unite much of Parliament, on the even international ban of the so-called womb for rent. Therefore, it must be considered that there are no constitutional cases raised in this regard. Finally, there is a general assessment of all of us, the majority and the opposition. For years we have been discussing the recognition of the rights of same-sex couples without being able to boast any results to date. Everyone needs to quit the melina and challenge himself civilly, loyally, openly in parliamentary assemblies. The problems must be resolved; it is of no use and no use to dismiss them and leave them to subsequent legislation. Society deserves answers. There are all the conditions for doing so, in a civil and democratic way. On Article 5, several political forces (the first was the Democratic Party) came to the same conclusion, guaranteeing freedom of conscience on the only point where basically the positions, even parliamentary, are distant, or at least more distant. We will vote freely and the House will be sovereign. We will send the country, all together, a concrete message: politics decides and is able to decide; the time for referrals is over. Having said that, it is considered necessary to reject the proposal of Senator Calderoli and other colleagues, aware of the work carried out so far, in the need to ensure the functionality of the institutions and to arrive at the approval of this important measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u30	I would remind you that Rule 96 expressly provides, at the end of the general discussion and before the articles are discussed, for the vote on this proposal to be taken. That is why, as far as possible, I believe that this proposal is acceptable in view of the provisions on agendas. [[Senator Comrade nods that he wants to intervene]] Senator Comrade, if it's for an intervention, someone from your group has already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u31	I ask you to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u33	COMPAGNA (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). Mr President, I listened with great interest to the speech by my colleague, Mr Marcucci, and just as I was speaking, I asked you to speak because, if we had concluded with this very respectable explanation of vote on behalf of the PD, in the glory of Mr Finocchiaro's very appreciated speech, as a guarantee of the unity of the Group, our debate, as it actually took place, would have given an unpleasant feeling of smelly pre-cooked - other than pear and apple! - with respect to the presidential ruling that you have read to us and which we are discussing. Our debate - with great respect for what Mr Marcucci has deduced from it and for what he has not deduced from it - was characterized not only by Mr Calderoli's request and brilliant speech, but also by the fact that, Mr President and friend Marcucci, the President of the Commission has spoken in favour of not moving to the articles. If our debates are taken for granted as soon as they begin, then that may be irrelevant. Senator Marcucci may be right. I am not a member of the Commission for justice and neither is he, but he says that Article 72 of the Constitution has been respected minute by minute. My colleague, Giovanardi, more or less rabidly and passionately, since the Christmas holidays and the befana wrote her a documented letter in which he claimed that this was not the case. In the debate that took place, the then President Nitto Palma and the current President D'Ascola, appointed by about fifteen days, brought to our attention the theme that elegant lawyers call "scam of labels", i.e. the ballet on the superposition of legal institutions. And, then, do you really - beyond this or that cleverness as a professor, I am also a professor on Article 2 - believe that it would be the subject of the separate and separate bill from Article 29 and so on? That we can judge a vulgar polemic the request to return to the Commission for clarification on the fraud of labels, i.e. margins of overlap or overlap between legal institutions? In our case it is the superimposition with marriage according to the civil code, so peculiar and distinct and so rhetorically bouncy, staff by staff, in the discipline of civil unions, according to this law text and, worse still than discrimination, which excludes from civil unions what is not between Giovanardi and Compagna, but that could be between Mrs Giovanardi and Compagna, or of course between Giovanardi and Mrs Compagna. It's very big... [[Comments from PD and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u34	Senator Compañera, the point of order has already been made.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u35	COMPAGNA (GAL (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E)). I made a point of order, but I also insisted, Mr President: so that our discussions are not unnecessary, it is clear that every point of order goes to the question of returning to the Commission and not to the articles. That is what you have spoken about. If this taxation of the Rules of Procedure is only to guarantee the cleverness of the professors, then all right, there will be parliamentarians who will do the professors and others not, but the beauty of parliamentarism is precisely the continuous overlap of his majesty parliamentariansism, on "his pettyness" the academy. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, MBI, Id, E-E) and the Divine Senators and Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u38	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all I would like to ask that the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the examination of the articles be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure. As far as the point of order is concerned, I would like to make a simple explanation of vote of 30 seconds, so that Members can understand what will happen if we do not move to the articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calderoli, meanwhile, I inform you that you may consider your request to attach your memory to the Report. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Thank you, Mr President. It will happen that if we approve the non-transposition to articles, the bill will not be discussed and, for six months, it will no longer be allocated to the Commission. I believe that a pause for reflection is absolutely necessary. At the moment we are voting on my proposal not to move on to the articles. Soon after, I do not know when it will happen at the end of time, we will vote on the non passage to the articles provided for in the amendment signed by Senator Marcucci, because before it was prevented the debate in the Commission, pursuant to Article 72 of the Constitution, but with the approval of the amendment Marcucci will no longer have the vote of the individual articles, because it is already written. And this is called the Democratic Party? Also raise the exception with respect to the eligibility of the non-transition to articles! Rule 96 of the Senate Rules is different from Rule 95, and there will be a reason. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u39	I invite the Senator Secretary to check if the request made by Senator Calderoli is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to proceed to the examination of NP1 articles by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 298 Senators voting 297 Majority 149 Favorables 101 Contrari 195 Absent 1]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u42	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, in view of the need to organise our work, after the result of this vote, I am speaking only to ask you to convene the Conference of Leaders. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u43	We greet the students, students and teachers of the Agricultural Technical Institute of Alvito, in the province of Frosinone, who follow our work. Welcome, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u46	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I know that you would have suspended the sitting immediately to convene the Conference of Leaders, but before that, I would have a communication to give to this House. I would have done it sooner, but I waited for you to do it at the beginning of the session. Yesterday a statement was issued which I think is detrimental to the whole of this House, to the role of the senators and to the work we do every day here. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli]] One senator, thinking he's better than the others and a little more phenomenon, said: On 315 a figure between 50 and 70 senators makes use of heavy drugs also in the bathroom. He said that if he were President of the Senate he would make environmental analyses and examination of the hair, and that certain interventions that are heard are not justified only by the lack of culture. If you want, I'll go ahead, Mr. President. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u47	Senator Centinario, this issue is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u48	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Colleagues, there's nothing to laugh about. Mr President, if it is not on the agenda, since we are going to the Conference of the Leaders, I would ask you to put this issue on the agenda immediately because it is our role and our dignity that is at stake here. Mr President, since I am also trying to be cooperative, I do not say that the senator in question, namely Senator Barani, when he is sitting at the chair does not even notice colleagues raising their hands and so I wonder what he is doing sitting there or what he has done in the bathroom before sitting in that place. As a result, at this point I publicly challenge the senator in question to do the hair test with me. I propose to do the hair test with the senator in question because I think only a moron like Senator Barani can say certain things. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u49	I am suspending the sitting and convening the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 5.59 p.m. and resumed at 7.37 p.m.) Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u52	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, at the Conference of the Leaders, it emerged - I believe in an instrumental way, but far from me as such - that four Group Leaders came out because they believe that, with a joke I made yesterday in a television show about a hair test that I carried out that was negative, I offended the Senate saying that perhaps there was some bad-cut stuff going around. AIROLA (M5S). What the hell? Mr Barani (AL-A). I apologise, of course, if anyone was offended; that was not my intention. I'm interested in the law going on, and that's why I apologize.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u53	The Conference of Leaders approved the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 25 February. The afternoon sitting of tomorrow will be devoted to the illustration of amendments to the draft law on civil unions, in the manner provided for in the ninth paragraph of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that on all amendments tabled to the same article there is a single discussion in which each senator can intervene only once even if proposing several amendments. The vote on the amendments will begin next week from the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 16 February. On Wednesday 17 and Thursday 18, the Assembly will hold unique sessions with possible suspensions at the discretion of the Presidency. The agenda for the sitting on Wednesday 17 February provides, at 3.30 p.m., for communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council on 18 and 19 February. For the next debate, the groups will be able to speak for ten minutes each, including final explanations of vote. In the week from 23 to 25 February, in addition to the possible follow-up of the bill on civil unions, will be examined the decree-law extends deadlines, due to expire next 28 February. The afternoon session on Thursday 25 February will be dedicated to the question time. Finally, the calendar can be integrated with the communications of the President, pursuant to article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, on the related bill in the matter of self-employment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u54	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 25 February 2016: [[Thursday 11 February ant. h. 9,30 - Following bill n. 2081 and related - Discipline of civil unions Thursday 11 February pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday, February 16 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Follow-up to bill n. 2081 and related - Discipline of civil unions - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 18 and 19 February 2016 (Wednesday 17, 15.30) Wednesday 17 " ant. h. 9,30-22 Thursday 18 " ant. h. 9,30-18]] [[Tuesday 23 February pom. h. 16,30-20 - Possible follow-up of bill n. 2081 and related - Discipline of civil unions Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 210, extension of terms (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 28 February) Wednesday 24 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 25 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 25 February pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] Amendments to the draft law No.... (Law No 210, extension of time) must be submitted by 5 p.m. on Thursday 18 February. The calendar will be integrated with the President's communications, pursuant to article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation on the draft law no. 2233, linked to the maneuver of public finance, in the matter of the protection of self-employment not entrepreneurial. Time distribution for discussion of the draft law No.... (Decree-Law No. 210, extension of time limits) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 31' AP (NCD-UDC) 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' AL-A 24' GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id, E-E) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 19' Dissententi 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u57	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, we in the 5 Star Movement think that Italy really has to make a breakthrough and that this change can be given by the parliamentarians of this country, if they want to. To give a turning point to the country, we start from the recognition of rights, without wasting time. That is why, starting from the recognition of rights in civil unions, we believe and believe it is appropriate that the debate in this House should begin on Monday 15 and continue until Friday of the same week. On the other hand, just when we talk about rights, I remind the House - to us senators and to me first - that Italian workers work from Monday to Friday, until Saturday and Sunday. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When there is a need to keep their company or family going, with despair sometimes, they roll up their sleeves and continue to work. This is for us respect for the Italian people. Continuing, I would like to point out to the Presidency - I have the list here and I do not want to tedious you by listing them all, one by one - that the 5 Star Movement has adopted twenty draft laws. I would also remind you that under the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Rule 53, paragraph 3, oppositions should have been given room to discuss their measures. Now, I say, it has been three years and in this House, just when we are talking about rights, the rights of the opposition and the 5 Star Movement have not been taken into account. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I end up remembering someone. I will not quote its name out of respect for the family and for those who are currently experiencing a drama, but I leave it to you to go looking and perhaps to observe that minute of silence that we dedicate to the great ones (but these people, in my opinion, are greater than the great ones). I am talking about a man, an Italian worker, yet another Italian worker who does not see and has not seen his right protected, who has lost his job and who has lost his life today because he thought well to take it away. [[The Senators of the M5S Group stand up. Applause from the M5S Group]] This should be the responsibility of a Parliament. The State has an obligation to protect its citizens, to respect the Constitution and all the rights enshrined in it, starting from civil unions and ending with the calendarizing of the bill on citizenship income, which protects 1.5 million children who belong to Italian families who cannot afford to eat. If we really want to protect the family and children, then these measures must follow a short and immediate path and they must have the interest of everyone. That is why I ask that the timetable be changed. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u60	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I wanted to make a proposal to amend the timetable by also helping, if you like, Mr Catalfo, who perhaps should have realised that, almost by a majority now, he could ask the majority to support his proposals. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Caliendo]] CATALFO (M5S). Shame on you! (Exchange of apostrophes between Senators Volpi and Catalfo). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, please speak to the presidency. VOLPI (LN-Aut). The proposal we want to make is that Tuesday at 4:30 p.m., being the first sitting to be used to vote (on Tuesday afternoon, if I remember correctly), we begin to discuss citizenship income immediately. Let's see if the rights are really so interesting to everyone and see if your contractual capacity compared to what you have in the field now with Senator Cirinna's bill will convince the majority to start talking about this issue so important to your Group. It seems to me an opportunity that you shouldn't let go: put her on the field and negotiate. Mr President, it seems to me to be a politically sustainable proposal. Let us at least understand what the oppositions are and what the majorities are. Otherwise, I believe that the proposal should be put in the hands of the majority. Being a time when the majority is different from what is normally seen, it would no longer be in opposition share, but in majority share. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u61	Beyond quotas, proposals for amendments remain proposed. If there are no other amendments, we shall proceed to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Shareholders' Meeting, made by Senator Catalfo, aimed at providing for sessions on Mondays and Fridays as well as the inclusion of draft laws made by the Group. (Exchange of jokes between Senators Paglini and Volpi). Senator Volpi, you do not accept a separate debate in this House. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. MARTON (M5S). There's the majority, Volpi. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Volpi, to include the examination of the draft law on citizenship income in the sitting on Tuesday. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u64	Mr Albano (PD). Mr President, I learned a few moments ago from press reports that the Ligurian Regional Councillor of the Lega Nord Giovanni De Paoli would say the following words at the end of a meeting with some parents of the Parents of Homosexuals Association (Agedo): If I had a homosexual son, I'd burn him in the oven. This sentence, already very serious, is made even worse by the fact that it was not pronounced at the bar, but within the Liguria Region agency and by a representative of the institutions. Now, if Councilman De Paoli thought to turn the spotlight on himself by emulating the verbal prowess of his national secretary, Matteo Salvini, he did it in a bad way, recalling the crematory ovens of the Nazi lager, in which it is estimated that about 50,000 people have been interned as homosexuals, with so much of a striped uniform with the pink triangle. That's what Councilman De Paoli meant? Did you mean he'd do like the Nazis? In fact, I always read from the press news, that the adviser oscillates between the denial and the confirmation of a position however clear. I expect a clear distance from these statements from the president of the Liguria Region, Giovanni Toti, and from Edoardo Rixi, national secretary of the Liguria North League, who is part of the Ligurian Regional Council. One thing is to have opposing opinions, one thing is not to be able to distinguish the political role from the role of representative of the institutions, and at this juncture it seems to me that Councillor De Paoli is in this case. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u67	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, two days ago, the Carabinieri of the anti-sophistication and health (NAS) group in Rome, together with the Carabinieri group in Frascati, carried out ten protective custody orders for as many people. They are ten operators - six women and four men - who are held responsible for the crimes of ill-treatment and kidnapping of young patients with neuropsychiatric diseases. Going backwards, on January 18, 2016 in Licata, in the province of Agrigento, eight people were investigated in various ways on the charge of ill-treatment of disabled people. On 15 December 2015 in Nocera Inferiore, in the province of Salerno, the Carabinieri arrested seven employees of a private clinic for ill-treatment to patients, almost all with psychic problems. On 16 November 2015, three social workers were arrested in Galliate, in the province of Novara, on the charge of aggravated ill-treatment against disabled people who should have taken care of. On March 26, 2015, three people were investigated following a survey of the Genoa NAS that highlighted a series of ill-treatment to a patient. On July 15, 2014, news of children and autistic boys between eight and twenty years beaten and kidnapped in a "containment room." On 11 April 2014, 12 precautionary measures were issued for 14 people for abuse of people with neurological problems. On 13 February 2014, the trial began in the Ivrea court, where two former health workers of the structure were charged with "Anffas-La Torre" in Rivarolo, in the province of Turin: they would have subjected two guests, a man and a woman, both psychic disabled, to a series of physical and psychological harassments. On December 30, 2013, the Carabinieri of the NAS of Naples intervened for a check in a nursing home of Castel Volturno discover a cold and promiscuous place, full of elderly and disabled psychics between forty-five and eighty-five years in suffering and without any kind of assistance. Five people get arrested. These are just some of the gruesome stories that people with disabilities see as victims of ill-treatment by the operators of the centres in which they are hosted. Is this the beautiful Italy? The investigations conducted by the Forces of the Order reveal particular shocking, gruesome, dramatic that make us fall into dismay and in the Middle Ages. The government cannot remain indifferent. Other than compliments, Mrs. Minister, to the police station: it has a duty to monitor and implement actions that lead to the cancellation of such incidents. Not to their decrease, to their elimination. A careful reflection will have to be made in this House with the law on the after us that has just arrived in the Senate. We're gonna be vigilant, we're gonna watch the warranties, we're gonna watch the controls. Let's not reduce it to a legend to please, but let's make it a chance to make sure that these episodes don't happen again. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bencini, Di Biagio, Mussini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u70	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, on yesterday's day, a child was born in the hospital in Atri, named Noemi. Why am I talking about Noemi in this House? Because Noemi wasn't supposed to be born in the hospital in Atri. In fact, for two months the birth point has been abolished, within a measure of rationalization of the expenditure that has resulted in the closure of four birth points in Abruzzo. The closure of the birth points - it is said - has the objective to give security to the birth path and on this, of course, we all agree. The story of Noemi, however, tells the opposite. The mother of Noemi, yesterday, having serious problems and severe pains, that put her at risk of anticipation of childbirth, went to the hospital in Pescara, where investments were made to welcome the babies who previously had the opportunity to give birth in hospitals whose birth points were suppressed. The lady goes to Pescara, is sent back, goes back to Atri, feels lancinating pains and the paradox is that, in the hospital with the suppressed birth point, a point of emergency was set up, where the woman gave birth to this wonderful child. I have asked Minister Lorenzin to ask whether he realizes that the closure of birth points without the preventive setting-up of a safety net can have the opposite effect, or risk births that until a few months ago would not have had any risk margin. I therefore ask you, in your question, also to review these measures, especially in the internal areas, where the road is complex, especially in winter, when it takes even an hour to go to the nearest hospital. In welcoming Noemi, who was born in a hospital where children are not wanted to be born, I emphasize the absurdity and paradox of certain measures, adopted to safely deliver children and which instead produce a birth in hospitals without safety systems and without birth points. Thanks to those doctors and those health workers, luckily, the child was born and is healthy, but I will go deeper on this absolute absurdity. We thank God that the child was born, and she was born well. Let's really thank God. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u73	PHASE (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is great emotion in the face of the touching words of today's ceremony, President, in which you recalled and commemorated the Day of Remembrance, established by Law No 92 of 30 March 2004. On February 10 of each year, the Day of Remembrance puts to our memory the victims of the foibe and the exodus of Julian-Dalmata, or rather of Istrians, Friulans and Dalmatians. The same legislation also established a special commemorative medal for victims' relatives. Today I note the great importance of the solemn celebration that took place in the Senate, and that involved and rewarded the world of school: a world that has spoken, listened and remembered those days, to restore dignity and historical recognition to the victims of the massacres, in an atmosphere of great emotion. I would like to point out an interesting archival research done in London by Luisa Morettin, in 2013, which offers the contours and contents of a brutal reality, made of violence, torture, arrests, rapes, massacres to instill fear in the civilian population. But parallel to those of memory are the days of memory, the tearing pain of the victims of persecution, of those who suffered for the war, and of any belonging. Since the parliamentary debates that instituted it, there have been opposing readings of the Day of remembrance: a divisive memory between right and left. The Day of Remembrance should not be ideologicalized. Today, we have to make strong reflections, and finally ask ourselves, as it seems, after more than seventy years, to become aware in an objective way of this sad and dramatic part of our history. I want to renew some memories of 1945: the disappeared, many ordinary people with the sole fault of being and wanting to be proudly Italian. Many anti-fascists, such as Mr. Olivi and Sverzutti, members of the Liberation Committee: people who had made the Resistance and were on the right side, but still guilty because they opposed the annexation of Venice Julia to Yugoslavia. I don't want to go any further, ma'am. You have already had an extraordinary intervention. I would just like to conclude with one consideration: we must defend ourselves again, we must always defend ourselves against the risks of nationalism. We must really break down the walls and try to do everything possible to eliminate at the source what generates monstrosity, delusional cruelty, leaving behind dead and sold. Education is not only the task of school, but also of politics: to legislate every day in support of the values of peaceful and respectful coexistence of all - and I stress all - ideas, all opinions and all differences. Educate the value and weight, even in here, of the word, all too often forgotten.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u76	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I would like to thank you for the word you have given me and which I shall use to join in the reflections that the previous speaker has just made and to thank you for the ceremony you have wished to celebrate with such solemnity and sobriety at the same time in this Parliament, in memory of the tragic events of the Foibe, which you described so well this morning in the red thread of memory that you must unite great efforts so that in our country, as throughout Europe, we can cement that peace which, on the other hand, seems to be increasingly being called into question. I would like to add, to the many memories of today, to what has been said today, to the many other things that could have been said, a particular and terrible event of that context, in those lands and in those dramatic days. The terrible event cost the heroic sacrifice of so many state officials, as well as civilian victims, who had the only fault that they did not realize before the advance of a great danger, and of soldiers, in particular, who carried out their duty to the extreme sacrifice with honor and humanity, as in the case of the 12 carabinieri slaughtered by the Titine communist partisans in the quarries of Predil. Today we must remind them and those many families, those many children who lived in that tragedy what perhaps other children live today. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u77	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-575.ana.u78	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 11 February, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.04 p.m.
