ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 22 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.32 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u6	Olivero (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 28 September 1946, exactly seventy years ago, Achille Grandi, vice president of the Constitutional Assembly, signed the Rome Pact on behalf of the Christian trade union movement, co-founder of the Unitary CGIL, founder of the ACLI, the Christian Associations of Italian Workers, died. Achille Grandi was also a member of the Italian People's Party until 1926, but he did not bow to fascism and was among the few popular parliamentarians who did not vote for the Mussolini government. Why should we remember this, ladies and gentlemen, in this year full of memories for our Republic? First because he was a true intransigent defender of workers' rights, a man who loved justice and was ready, on many occasions, to give up everything in order not to betray his values. Until the last days of his life, he worked for union unity, an essential tool for him to improve not only the economic conditions, but above all the social and spiritual conditions of the workers, overcoming the materialistic vision of progress. It must be remembered, moreover, because he was a reconstructor of consciences, deeply convinced that from the twenty-year-old Fascist one could go out only with a ruling class formed in the profound values of honesty, justice and freedom. He was not content with new institutions and containers, but wanted and worked to renew the ruling class, both in the union and in politics. In fact, great did not conceive the political formation only aimed at the leadership of the new republican institutions, but also at civil society, which had to be ready for the democratic challenge after the years of the unique thought of the regime, as my friend Giovanni Gronchi had to say in a wonderful way during the commemoration in the Assembly a few days after his disappearance. Third, Grandi deserves to be remembered for his secularity, the daughter of a Christian faith so profound that it must not be manifested in public life except in the example of his moral conduct. Great endured misunderstandings, suspicions, real persecutions also on the part of his Church, but never wavered nor changed his position of intransigence to moderation first and to fascism then and of fidelity to the working class. The ACLI, founded by him in the days immediately following the liberation of Rome, have testified and continue to bear witness to this formative passion and commitment to workers, the poorest and weakest people and those who are less protected. They do so in the name of this great colleague of ours who, with his life, his personal witness and his political commitment, in particular in the constituent Assembly, gave a great deal to our country. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u9	MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I agree with the words of Senator Olivero, who is a successor to Grandi and has studied his story, also writing a book about his figure. He said important words that center the figure of this character. Achille Grandi has had results and successes in her life, but perhaps she has had many more contrasts and many more defeats. He - he did not remember Senator Olivero and I gladly do - was a self-taught. At the age of eleven, he had to start working: he was an apprentice printer. He was first of four children and his father was unemployed. During Fascism Achille Grandi for ten years suffered real misery. He found himself with the load of the family and abandoned even by the hierarchies to which he referred. In the life of Achilles Grandi the polar star was the social school of the Church's magisterium and democracy. Its three points of reference were the Church, democracy and workers. So Grandi has accumulated victories, but also great defeats. He was a man of faith, but also pragmatic. He gave the idea of a simple man, but at the same time he had a great moral will and strength, the strength of a leader who wanted to be such because he believed in democracy and in the values of freedom. He paid high prices to remain consistent, and this fidelity to his three main values, which I recalled earlier, for Grandi was a dynamic fidelity because he never married the defense of the pre-constituted order and moderationism, indeed, throughout his history, throughout his life, he pursued objectives of reformism and even of conflict, when necessary, in order to carry out his ideas. In conclusion, as Olivero recalled, Grandi was among the founders of a Catholic union just before the advent of fascism, then co-founder of the Italian People's Party, then co-founder of Christian Democracy, founder of the CGIL and, at the same time, founder of the ACLI, an original movement that many ideas and works brought into our country. He represented one of the exemplary figures of social Catholicism of the twentieth century. I believe that precisely his main defeat leaves us a very current message: the need to see not only the life and birth (which he contributed) of the unitary union, but also its success. As mentioned earlier, great people knew the misery and material torments of life, the abuse of the weakest, the daily anguish of the unemployed, the workers and the last of the last. This man, precisely in the age in which impenetrable ideologisms are born and high fences are raised between the right, the centre and the left until favoring the advent of fascism, understands that the defense of the weakest, the defense of the workers, the defense of democracy passes through the unity of the workers, through the unity of the social forces of the country. He dies, as I said, before seeing his defeat. Today, however, it is up to us to see that, from 1946 to today, we are still at that defeat. Ideologies will also have fallen, the transmission belts may have fallen, but in a country that would need social cohesion so much, we continue to count the same big organizations as yesterday, both in the entrepreneurial and in the trade union and social fields. And, in order not to make us miss anything, to these we have added, in Italy, hundreds and hundreds of other acronyms with the only result of fragmenting representation, of dispersing the role and responsibility of the intermediate bodies, of increasing corporate selfishness and, in essence, of not realizing that increase in wealth and that more equitable distribution of the same that must be at the head of all Italians and all those who have responsibilities in the field of social forces. I therefore believe that this is the teaching that we must draw from the great defeat of Achilles Grandi. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u12	SANTINI (PD). Madam President, the biographical notes recorded by Senator Olivero and Senator Luigi Marino make good the importance that the figure of Achilles Grandi had in the Italian political and social landscape of the twentieth century. His testimony of social commitment and his ideas had great influence even after his death and his achievements, after seventy years, are still alive as a stimulus and as a commitment in Italian society. The constant points of reference of Grandi can be summed up in the triple fidelity to the Church, to democracy and to workers. For Grandi the social doctrine of the Church was central, a tenacious fidelity, never abandoned, even in the dramatic moments of conflict with hierarchies and suffering for the choices at the onset of fascism. The second aspect of the lesson that Grandi handed down to us is that of a free and autonomous political commitment, always at the service of the interest of the workers and the great - as was said then - popular masses, never bent on opportunism and tacticism, always inspired by a consistency with the principles and values inspiring his political action. In his political experience at the beginning of the century he fought for an autonomous positioning of the Catholic world, not subordinate to socialism, but not even to liberalism. He was an advocate of a free and conscious political presence of Catholics who needed to carry out their own political programme of social change and the expansion of democracy. Finally, in Grandi the value of the autonomy of the union and, more generally, of civil society was most vivid; emblematic from this point of view the initiative of Grandi not only in the CISL, but also in the brief experience of the unitary CGIL. The rebirth of the union after the Second World War, according to Grandi, was a decision of the parties; the union reborn from above rather than from below. Grandi was aware of this political origin and saw the limit. It was therefore necessary as soon as possible to abandon the phase of the party components of the union in order to recover the full dimension of autonomy. The lever could have been that of unity; not of a unity made up of currents, but based on a precise reform programme, not maximalist in the practice of autonomy from political parties and conditioning, enhancing the pluralism of the union and the workers. A dream that Grandi never failed, but of which in his last days he now seized the growing impossibility. I believe, as Senators Marino and Olivero also said, that seventy years later we must take this message back. This teaching is still very valid for the men and women of the union and institutions, it is an example of how to do trade union and political activity by remaining faithful to their values, without bending to conveniences and conditionings. He was a disinterested servant of the workers, a witness to the importance of the role of the workers themselves and of the union for the democratic and social development of our country; we want to thank him for this. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u15	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am very concerned about yesterday afternoon and last week's work. It seems clear to me that we are faced with the paralysis of parliamentary activity as an order of business until 4 December. This is now written. If it's okay, they'll do the law of stability in the House, but nothing else. However, as far as our order of business is concerned, it seems clear to me that, despite everything, the distinctions within the majority have not yet been clarified, so we continue to drag the reform of the criminal process; yesterday with so many good chatters, today with the deliberations on requests for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure. The important thing is not to get to the point and face the criminal process. Certainly, after we have finished the discussion of the deliberations under Rule 77, someone will propose the reversal of the agenda so that we do not get to the point, when yesterday afternoon was even authorized the possibility for the Government to put the confidence on the measure. And here comes the main obstacle: we cannot proceed because there is no one who comes to ask us and impose trust on us; in this case the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. Why? Because in the meantime, instead of being here doing his job, he's out in South America campaigning for yes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut groups and Senator Rizzotti]] This is happening with respect to a Ministry that should not have any relationship with foreign countries (it is without portfolio and therefore travels at the expense of the taxpayer), but that uses consuls and ambassadors to bring together aggregations of elected citizens abroad, where we do not talk about the problems of citizens abroad, but about the constitutional reform that they will vote: that is to say, to make meetings at our expense. That is unacceptable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut groups and Senator Rizzotti]] We therefore call on you to request the presence of the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, also pointing out the fact that while on the referendum of the drills in countries without postal service the citizens resident abroad were not able to vote, in this case DHL, therefore a private structure, to deliver the plichi with the ballots and to let them enter the country. I hope that there will not be the same problems of glue and closure as in Austria. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator De Pin]] I hope that, perhaps, with the adhesive heels, the envelopes can be opened, filled and closed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u16	Senator Calderoli, with regard to the question of trust, which is the only element of our work, since the others are your assumptions that, in case, can be clarified with other parliamentary instruments, as you know better than I do, the Council of Ministers can delegate any Minister to ask the question of trust. As regards the follow-up to the debate, we shall see how this will evolve in the morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u17	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2265. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Di Maggio has the floor to illustrate the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to explain the request for urgent procedure under Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, which - I remember only for those who do not remember it - if the House were to vote in favour of it, would mean that the time limits for the legislative process of the draft law which I am now going to present are halved. The premise is that we are not voting on a measure here, but we are taking the decision, which is also political, of course, to speed up the legislative process for its approval. The draft law examines the complex and crucial issue of the relationship between politics and jurisdiction, with particular reference to the issues of the eligibility of ordinary, administrative, accounting and military magistrates in the political or administrative elections, the assumption by them of positions of national, regional or local government, as well as the consequent relocation in role at the end of the assignment. As proof of the improcrastinability of a legislative intervention in this matter, it is sufficient to bring back the thought of one of the greatest Italian academics, Aldo Moro (among other things recently mentioned on the centenary of his birth), who at the session of 31 January 1947 of the plenary meeting of the Committee for the Constitution, had to declare that: It is necessary to guarantee the freedom of thought of judges at political level. There is no doubt that the right to vote which is recognized by the magistrates and the right to stand as a candidate for them are in part used to guarantee this freedom of thought at the political level. But there is a need for a restriction on membership of political parties. It is a sacrifice, but sacrifice is justified in order to guarantee the freedom of citizens, to whom the magistrates, for their own function, have obligations different from all others. It is a sacrifice that returns to an increase in the dignity of the magistrates and to a greater guarantee of their function. The magistrates must not only be superior to any partiality, but also to any suspicion of partiality. This formal extraneousness from the political struggle gives greater dignity to the Magistrate, so that the Magistrate can truly obey only the imperative of his conscience. I believe that this is also a very interesting reminder of the parliamentary functions. Although Moro did not directly address the problem, he grasped the deep meaning of what, still today, almost seventy years after his words, remains a subject of burning topicality that sees, all too often, the magistrates undressing to dedicate themselves to political and government activity, except then permanently store them or wear them again according to political seasons, with consequent inevitable prejudice to the principles of third-party and impartiality. And that the need for regulatory intervention in this area is now stringent has been underlined even by the self-government body of the judiciary in a recent resolution of 21 October 2015 concerning precisely the issue of relations between politics and jurisdiction, where it has expressly invited Parliament to intervene by regulating the matter. It is now a common view that the possibility of the magistrates' access to political office carries the risk that the role and prerogatives exercised by them as representatives of the judicial order will prevent the free formation of electoral consensus among the citizens who are, have been or could be subjected, with obvious and serious alteration of the delicate balances inherent in a democratic competition and, on the other hand, that political commitment, due to its repercussions in terms of membership of political projects, expression of judgements of intrinsically questionable value, participation in public debate and dialectical confrontation on ideological issues, as well as for its choices also on important economic and financial issues within the community, ends up clouding the image of impartiality, autonomy and independence of which the judicial function must enjoy in order to maintain its legitimacy. The magistrates must not only be superior to any partiality, but also above all suspicion of partiality; this condition is difficult to match with the search for the consensus that physiologically characterizes the political race. Of course, there is no question of the freedom of thought of magistrates at political level: the right to vote and the right to stand as a candidate for them fully guarantee that freedom. Nevertheless, the function of guarantee which the Constitution assigns to the judiciary justifies, not to say, the setting of limits to guarantee the same dignity as the magistrates and their function. On this point it is not superfluous to recall that according to the Constitutional Court, the functions exercised and the qualifications held by the magistrates are not indifferent and without effect for the constitutional order. Due to the nature of their function, the Constitution reserves to the magistrates a very particular discipline, contained in Title IV of Part II: this discipline, on the one hand, assures a particular position, on the other, correlatedly, involves the imposition of special duties. With the exception of national elective political positions (the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic) and political and administrative positions in local territorial authorities, the law does not provide for mandatory expectation and, consequently, the magistrates can assume political-administrative or elective positions in local territorial authorities while continuing the exercise of judicial functions with the only limit of the diversity of territorial areas. With regard to these last posts, in fact, the current rules only provide for incompatibility between the district where the magistrate may be a candidate and the place where he has performed the judicial function and to intervene on the rules governing the return to the judicial order of those who have carried out an elective mandate. However, these interventions are not sufficient. Indeed, the setting of geographical-territorial or functional-temporal limits to the exercise of jurisdiction by those who, having ceased their elective mandate, return to the exercise of judicial functions, have proved inadequate to avoid the loss, at least in terms of appearance, independence and impartiality of the judicial order. If the proposal to oblige the magistrates to resign before the candidacy would encounter a clear obstacle in the forecast referred to in Article 51 of the Constitution, different forms of limitation are admissible, having the same Constitutional Court clarified that the right to participation of the magistrate in political life: "that undoubtedly must be recognized in this matter, it cannot be limited by the existence of other constitutionally protected legal assets, such as the good performance of justice and the prestige of the judicial order" (judgment No 172 of 1982). Moreover, if it is true that the magistrate who freely decides to apply must have the opportunity to keep his job, it is also true that it does not necessarily have to be the one previously carried out. On this point, the Constitutional Court, with reference to the possibility of assigning judges to functions other than those carried out before the elections, stated that: "to preserve the place means only to maintain the employment or employment relationship, but not to continue in the performance of the duties carried out by the employee concerned" (see again judgment No 172 of 1982). The ruling refers to a change in functions of a judicial nature, but it cannot be excluded that the legislator can impose on the magistrate who has abandoned the robe for the policy of returning to a different sector of public administration. From the above it emerges the need for regulatory intervention aimed at placing more incisive limits on the possibility for the magistrate to return to administer justice at the end of the political-administrative task, graduating the incisiveness of those limits according to the elective nature of the task or not. The proposed regulatory intervention concerns members of every judiciary (ordinary, administrative, accounting and military) who express their political candidacy, or who hold positions of government; peacefully, the aforementioned principles of independence and impartiality are also applied to special magistrates. In particular, the discipline covered by the draft law in question concerns judges who have been candidates for both the position of national or European parliamentarians, as well as for elective positions or administrative positions in local authorities and regions. The structure of the proposed legislation then distinguishes the hypothesis of the candidate magistrate elected from that of the candidate magistrate not elected. In the first case it is radically excluded its relocation in role, with the passage of the magistrate in the staff of the Attorney of the State. In the second case, the relocation in role is allowed with territorial and temporal limitations to avoid that the magistrate is again incardinated in the office of origin. As for the elective offices in the local territorial authorities, the ineligibility of the magistrates who carry out their duties in a judicial office located in the Region where the territorial body for which the elections were held is located, or those who held them in the same three years before the date of acceptance of the candidacy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Maggio, I invite you to conclude. IN MAY (CoR). I shall conclude, Madam President. The assumption of non-elective positions in both national and local government bodies is distinguished from the elective positions. The magistrates who have ceased their local non-elective office shall be transferred to their place of origin, but in the five years following the date of termination of office they may not exercise their duties, nor may they be assigned to any office in the Region in which the territorial body with which they have carried out their duties is located. With regard to elected positions, the rules for national elections as a member of Parliament apply to the Regions. With regard to non-elective posts, however, reference is made to the principles laid down for local and regional authorities. For the reasons set out above, I call for the vote in favour of this House in order to speed up the examination of the proposed rules.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u21	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, during the current parliamentary term this House has already dealt with the beautiful issue dealt with by bill 2265, namely that of the compatibility of the exercise of jurisdiction by magistrates who have held political positions. At the time, our parliamentary group voted in favour of the draft law on the subject, which, as far as we know, has passed through the Chamber of Deputies and is still there (for that reason, we do not know why). So let us not say anything new if we approach the draft law in favor today, aware of the need for the judicial function not only to be, but also to appear third, impartial and free from political ties. The system proposed in the draft law in question seems to move from an absolutely reasonable perspective, protecting the sacrosanct right of any magistrate to want to carry out a political, elective or not, even in the local context, with the expectation of a destination after the fulfillment of the electoral mandate. The draft law under consideration provides for the maintenance of the job but, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's ruling, it is not necessarily the maintenance of the same function. The text under consideration provides that, at the end of the elective task of a national or European character, the magistrate may pass into the roles of the State's Billing even in supernumber, thus ensuring the continuity of that subject's work. From the report we have heard that it is expected that, even in the case of non-election, the vulnus to the image of the magistrate who, in some way, has been politically deployed, is compensated by a destination that provides territorial or temporal limitations aimed precisely at ensuring that, in the eyes of the citizen - this is what interests us - even the only image of that magistrate is protected and that his past political belonging cannot vulner even the mere appearance of the role - almost sacred I would say - of the exercise of jurisdiction, which necessarily provides for compliance with the criteria of third-partyhood and impartiality. I also believe that this House will have to talk about this issue in passing when it comes to examining a measure of the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity which I know is on schedule, although we still do not know when it will be called into question, because we have the feeling that there is some sort of melina on the part of the majority party in not wanting to deal with the draft law on amendments to the penal code and the code of criminal procedure. I am referring to a measure by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities under which a Member of ours will be able to withdraw from the role of Senator (the Junta has already pronounced itself to this effect, now the Assembly will have to do so) because it is based on a sentence of sentence of longer duration than that provided for by the Severino law for the maintenance of the elective office. We know, however, that this sentence of condemnation is spoiled, at least in appearance and in the sense of impartiality, by the fact that one of the magistrates who issued it had already held roles, including government, in a political opposition to that of the senator in question. Beyond the principle that we, as a 5 Star Movement Group, want and must respect, that is, that of respect for legality and rules (if a law imposes a consequence, that law must be applied without looking at anyone), but we cannot hide a sense of bitterness in observing the circumstance in which the judicial process seems spoiled, at least in appearance (in concreteness who can say it: perhaps the sentence and the determination of the penalty were right!), from the fact that he was a member of the panel of judges a magistrate who had held political roles absolutely characterized and opposed to the Parliamentary object of pronunciation of decadence. This - I repeat - leads to a sense of loss and does not benefit the image of politics and the action of the judiciary. For this reason, the 5 Star Movement Group will vote in favour of the resolution on the request for an urgent declaration, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2265. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u24	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, I believe that a consideration must be given first of all. It seems to me that there has already been a discussion in this Senate about the issues of ineligibility and the return of magistrates after political parenthesis, and it seems to me that this debate has ended with the transmission to the Chamber of Deputies of the draft law which regulates this matter, which brings No 2188 of the Acts of the Chamber and which is therefore submitted to the Commission of Justice. I therefore believe that this already highlights the fact that it is problematic to believe that the conditions laid down in Article 77 are met. But at this point I would return a moment back to the draft law and the considerations that have been made to motivate it. I believe that there is a problem, certainly a delicate and important one, with regard to these types of issues, that is, how the right of passive electorate of all Italian citizens is reconciled with the function of the magistrates. I believe that this aspect can be found in the draft law in question some indications which, if I am not mistaken, are also present in the other draft law, which can, in principle, be shared, since they pose the problem of ineligibility in the constituency in which the work of magistrate is carried out and since they place the condition of expectation as a prerequisite for being eligible. On the contrary, it seems to me that it is more problematic to share those provisions which provide that magistrates who apply but are not elected cannot perform their duties for five years in the constituency in which they are candidates. In fact, I believe that under this premise the issue deserves a reflection, precisely in the perspective of the right of passive electorate and in the evaluation of the candidate's status. It is clear that this provision may have an excessive effect on the right of passive electorate. There is also another problem that I believe deserves a reflection from the point of view of constitutional legitimacy: the prediction that the magistrates do not fall into the judiciary but must be placed automatically in the state's bill, in excess of the number. I think that this kind of constraint contrasts with more than one principle of the Constitutional Charter. It is one thing to lay down conditions for the return to the judiciary that concern the seats and functions that can be carried out, when all this moves in a logic of rationality and consistency with the system; another is to predict that one person, even if he is a magistrate, by the mere fact of having exercised political mandates, can no longer perform the previously carried out function, which can certainly represent the first occupation of his life, but also a strong passion and motivation. I believe, therefore, that this bill would certainly not be ready for the debate in this House and would lead us - I repeat - to do a duplicate of an iter that we have already gone through. In this respect, the logical thing is to wait for the vote of the House. I also think that, for these very reasons, the conditions laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution do not exist. But, if I may, I would like to add a very personal remark. The issue of the relationship between the judiciary and politics is not resolved in this respect, albeit important and yet to be regulated in a balanced manner. It is a much wider, much more complex problem, which can only start from the consideration of the tripartition of powers and can only focus on the assessment of a balance in the exercise of function, which must remain within the framework of its natural beehive. From this point of view, I believe that there are further problems and reflections on the issue of responsibility in relation to the exercise of the function. I believe that it poses a particular problem on the subject of the responsibility of prosecutors, but it is a reflection that should be entrusted to a different season and certainly could not be resolved in this measure which, for the reasons stated, has no priority. Nor is this bill a political priority in relation to measures, for example, on the right of citizenship, on cinema and on many others that will come to this House and which are certainly of much greater importance and have not yet been discussed. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u27	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, I think it has also escaped the authors of this draft law that the matter has already been dealt with by the Senate with a bill which has been dismissed by this branch of Parliament and which has passed to the Chamber: it regulates the return of magistrates after parliamentary and political experience, whatever it may be, in the roles of the judiciary. This bill has been - I repeat - in the House of Deputies for about two years (or perhaps even more) and has not yet been scheduled, which is why, on several occasions, I have denounced Parliament's delay in regulating such a delicate matter that it marks the delicate but imposing boundary between the legislative power and the judiciary. My condolences and the emphasis I have placed on this delay in Parliament, in particular the Justice Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, have also been the subject of attention from President Ferranti, to whom I publicly declare my personal esteem and appreciation for his work. I have simply, on various occasions and even in the press, denounced this delay which I cannot say is attributed to one or the other or to a specific subject. This is, however, a delay in politics, because we have already looked at this issue and for two years it has not yet been dealt with in the House of Deputies. I must say, however, that I was not the only one to denounce him: I have done so in the Committee on Justice several times and in the Bureau, but as President Palma has done to me on several occasions, even in public sitting here in the Senate. The bill today at our examination, of which Senator Di Maggio is the first signatory, in any case, is in contrast to the one already dismissed by the Senate and which is now in the Chamber: suffice it to say that the divergence lies in the solution identified by the presenters, Senator Di Maggio and Senator Bonfrisco, who provided with this bill that the magistrates, after the political experience, enter the roles of the lawyer. In that other bill already passed, instead, certain functions are foreseen which, in any case, leave a tranquillity of judgment and appearance of impartiality of judgment, in the sense that in that case - I would not like to be mistaken, but I think so - it was expected that the magistrate who had had political experience could not be a monocratic judge, could not deal with the investigations and, therefore, could not be a public prosecutor. We have a striking case that will certainly have been decided with absolute impartiality and intellectual honesty (I refer to the Minzolini case), but the doubt that that magistrate, already deputy of an opposing political force of that of Senator Minzolini, even unknowingly (as the uncontrollable emotions) has been more negatively disposed in the final judgment of a conduct that has been considered delittuous, there is. You see, the magistrate, before even being impartial, must appear this: this is the central point of the magistrate's function. The magistrate has a different function from ours; he must give in the subject that is judged the tranquillity, serenity and the certainty of a judgment that is free from any conditioning. If you have been part of a political assembly like this or in any case of a political assembly where the subjects are in contrast both from the cultural point of view and of ideas of government of our country, it is evident that this certainty on the absolute lack of any conditioning is not there. If we deal with this bill and expect something different from what has already been decided in this House, and which is "absent" to the Chamber of Deputies in the Justice Commission, we could do something that is not anywhere. However, we would not make a good impression, because we have just come up with a solution that is contained in a text that we have approved. Today this solution we imagined should be discussed in the House and we instead what do we do? Let us imagine a different solution than the one already approved and examined. I would like to take this opportunity to say that my complaints about the delay on the part of the other side of Parliament have nothing personal about anyone. This is a political complaint against a careless policy that does not take into account the importance of a regulatory forecast such as the one that has already been dealt with by the Senate. It is unbearable, in my opinion, that the draft law to which I refer remains in the drawer of the Justice Commission and is not dealt with. Beyond that, beyond this criticism of a lack of political attention, there has certainly never been and is not in my words, which I have also spoken in press interviews or before in institutional fora such as the Justice Commission and its Bureau, the intention to criticize anyone in the subjective sense of the matter. To deal with this issue is certainly inappropriate for the reasons I have said, and I am convinced that, after recalling that the matter has already been treated by us and dismissed, Senator Di Maggio himself, who is a wise man, will recognize that - perhaps out of distraction - this fact had not been considered. I wanted to remind him. I hope that I have made myself clear and I hope that in the Chamber of Deputies' justice committee my thoughts, together with those of Mr Palma and others, will be interpreted in the most correct way, that is, as simple political demands for the adoption of a measure, and that they will not be read as criticism or personal offense. The fact that the subjects involved in this issue are also magistrates does not remove or add anything: I did not mean and I absolutely do not intend to imagine that certain delays are caused by personal interests.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u30	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would ask you to speak because I was called into question by Senator Falanga. I have listened carefully to previous speeches and I believe that a reference to memory is necessary in this House. The text of this bill partly follows another one, which deals with the matter as a whole, almost unanimously approved in the Senate two years ago. Madam President, the basic problem, however, is that that bill, adopted almost unanimously in the Senate, did not have any follow-up to the House of Deputies. For about two years, in fact, that measure has not arrived - at least as far as I know - in this House. I believe that we all know or can understand the reason for this incredible inertia on the part of the House of Deputies. I open and close a brief parenthesis: this inertia has not found any political solicitude on the part of those who had to do so, especially in the face of the constant solicitude that comes from the Chamber of Deputies whenever a provision of the Commission justice of that branch of Parliament encounters some obstacle to the Senate, to the point to be reduced or to reach the paradox, as happens, for example, for the reform of the criminal process, in order to which the Senate has been accused of being long-winded. This is not particularly true, because the measure is currently in a state of deadlock because of the majority disagreements or rather (according to Minister Orlando's interview on the point) because of the absence of cohesion within the majority. Minister Orlando, in fact, today said that part of the Democratic Party does not share justiceist traits of the reform and that, on the other hand, another party does not share the traits guaranteed. We will still have a chance to talk about this. The statement of urgency is requested, and Senators Pagliari and Falanga have shown their dissent, which I would also express because of the precedent. I am also particularly curious to see how long we have to wait to see if that bill, which is currently in the Chamber of Deputies, will be able to see the light or not. And it is true what Senator Falanga says: in these two years I, in this House and repeatedly in the Bureau of the Commission Justice, together with Senators Caliendo, Buemi and Falanga in that same place, have complained about this delay and since the Bureau is not a place of report we have most likely made clear what we all know about the reasons for this stalemate. But I believe that the statement of urgency must be granted in the face of that inertia because, in the meantime, the problem is no longer only theoretical but - alas - it has assumed practical and, in some respects, dramatic profiles. Mr Senators, if this problem had been addressed and resolved, Senator Minzolini would not have been condemned by a polluted college, because this is the exact term, by the presumed political partiality of one of its members: alleged political partiality entirely linked to his previous parliamentary activity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] How many times and for how long have you told us that the judge, like Caesar's wife, must also appear impartial? But of all this you forget the moment when, in one way or another, you are forced to touch the category of magistrates. I appreciated the intervention of Senator Buccarella, who explained in clear terms how the problem of appearance, in the light of Article 111 of the Constitution, does not only concern the individual, but inevitably tends to flow back on the same general concepts of autonomy and independence of the judiciary. I believe, then, that the inertia on the part of the House, for the reasons that are known to many of us, must necessarily be overcome by a new intervention by the Senate and, consequently, I believe that the Group of Forza Italia will vote in favour of the statement of urgency. Like it or not, we need to intervene on the specific point because we do not really need another Minzolini case, that is to say to see a Member condemned or acquitted - it is the reverse of the medal - by a college or a magistrate in itself not seemingly impartial precisely because of his previous political activity. In fact, this is the core of that intervention. Senator Pagliari referred to passive electorates and everything else, but that's not the problem. The problem is to ensure the impartiality of the judgment with respect to an accused person who is ready to suffer the negative results of that judgment even if it comes from an impartial body. So I believe that we should urgently address this problem also because, as a writer of the left so dear said to you, we cannot be virgins and prostitutes at the same time and, consequently, we cannot be impartial and partial as judges who enter and leave politics at the same time. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u33	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a long-standing issue which has been dealt with over decades and which we have dealt with in this House and in Commissions 1a and 2a, in close relationship with each other a few years ago. The problem had been solved in an inadequate way from my point of view. However, it had been dealt with and this House, albeit with some reservations from me, had approved the measure. However, this issue has been abated in the House of Deputies and I acknowledge that my colleagues Palma, Falanga and others have repeatedly asked the question for the other branch of Parliament to address it. This is an issue which, for the facts mentioned earlier (one of our colleagues), but also for others, presents and imposes the need for clarity and separation of roles such as not to be able and not to be suspicious. The issue - I repeat - has been dealt with repeatedly and the measure has stopped in the Chamber of Deputies, in particular in its Justice Commission. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I am a guarantor and I am not going to let myself go, but I have difficulty in being convinced that there are no colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies' Justice Committee who are leading roles at least as a brake, because subjective conditions often have a strong influence on our choices and the expectation of the parliamentary magistrate, as far as I know, is one of the elements that I think emerge in this affair. We should then clear the field of suspicions and instrumental interpretations, tolerant attitudes and overcome even the general suspicion that there is a strong conditioning on the part of important members of the judiciary towards parliamentary institutions. Madam President, incidentally, I would like to draw your attention and that of the House to a speech by the President of the National Association of Judges in an important transmission of a national television network. The comparison that he made, recalling in his intervention indirectly and in the intervention of the moderator directly, the presence in the Parliamentary classrooms of a number of inquisitions or "delinquents" above the outskirts of the metropolitan cities of our country is a question on which I expected at least a position from the Presidents of the Senate and the Chamber; even from the Minister of Justice it would have been necessary some more position on the subject. That being said, let's get back to it. I believe that the parliamentary process on this subject must be completed quickly, although its content is inadequate. Mr Palma, I welcome your speech, as I also appreciated that of Mr Buccarella, who, in line with what he said in the Commission, drew your Group's position on this point. I think, however, that we must continue what is already in the House and not give an alibi, dear colleague Palma, so that we can quickly reach the adoption of a law. Let's think about the Civil Liability Act, President Palma: we wanted it strongly and we can't know the effects it has produced. At first a great deal of concern was expressed, because there would have been a strong conditioning on the part of the defendants with actions of intimidation by defence lawyers against judges or investigative magistrates. I want to see if there has been a mistake on the part of Parliament, because this misunderstanding cannot remain in the air. I have repeatedly asked for these figures in the Commission and also personally from the Minister, but he has not yet made them available to us. I hope that the Minister for relations with Parliament, as well as the Minister for Justice and how many others, will act with a little care to get us this information and clarify whether there is this intimidating action that harms the autonomy of the magistrates. Someone said that the magistrate, not only must he be, but must also appear impartial. I totally agree. I wouldn't agree to be judged by a judge who presents those misunderstandings we talked about. This is an indispensable law, as it aims to revive our country in the context of the civil world. QThis, in fact, is a civilization problem. [[Applause from Senator Palma.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u36	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, colleagues have raised a number of questions of principle regarding the responsibility of the magistrates and what can happen when a magistrate, during his career, is a magistrate, then a politician, a Member of Parliament, so he continues to be a magistrate and then continues to be a politician. It's not theoretical. A few months ago I was in Termoli, with my colleague Di Giandomenico, a Member of Parliament, arrested at the end of his parliamentary experience by a former Member of Parliament, Dr Magrone, then clearly as prosecutor of the Republic of Larino, together with the provincial and regional commander of the Carabinieri del Molise, in an affair that then dragged for about five or six years, without even referral to trial. So, they have been in prison (the colonel for months) for a surreal affair and, after a few years, they have worked hard to have it archived without even returning to trial. Well, Dr. Magrone was first magistrate, then parliamentary, then prosecutor and now mayor of Modugno. Vicende of this type multiply, even with situations that have involved us, as in the case of Senator Minzolini, highlighting this very strange relationship, a bit surreal, between real situations, which then touch closely, on the skin, people whose family life is cut off, professional and political; except then discover, after years, that perhaps some political prejudice upstream of all the story there was, given the absolute inconsistency of the accusations, which however does not prevent these magistrates from continuing to make politics and, indeed, on the basis of the fame acquired with these enterprises, to make it even with more freedom. But this morning Mr Calderoli raised a problem on which, once again, I see a reflection of the subject we are talking about. I am referring to cases where the activities of the magistrates have a major influence on politics. I cannot forget that Mr Billardi was asked to be arrested when he was still a senator in office on the issue of the so-called Calabrian refund. I cannot forget that a colleague of mine, a former regional councillor, has been sent to Messina for eleven months because, without further referral to court, there is an ongoing investigation into these refunds. Then this morning I read, in the Calabrian newspapers, that the MP Ferdinando Aiello is in South America with Minister Boschi to meet the Argentine president of Calabrian origins, Macri. And I still read that Ferdinando Aiello, for reimbursement of the city, is involved in the same events as Billardi, with very heavy accusations against him, that I invite you to go and verify. Well, he is Italy's ambassador to the world together with Minister Boschi. Someone has to tell me, then, what parameters the magistrates are intervening with. Why is one of our fellow Senator asked to be arrested? Why is another one being put at the border? And why does another, having basically the same accusations, go around the world together with a Minister of the Republic to represent Italy? If this is not a problem for Italy which affects relations between the judiciary and politics (I would say that it is from 1992 onwards that this problem of pollution of politics and of Parliament is being carried out by initiatives of magistrates who have a profound influence on political life), then I do not know what is. Speaking also of the mayor of Naples De Magistris, I saw the actions against the former minister Mastella, today mayor of Benevento: a Government fell for a judicial initiative that later turned out to be based absolutely on nothing, but that led that magistrate not to be censored, but to be the mayor of Naples. For more than twenty years Italian parliamentary politics has been derailed: sometimes (almost always) this happens towards the center-right and sometimes the center-left. The Prodi Government fell just because of a parliamentary initiative that touched a Minister of that Government: how justified it was we saw it later. To give a political signal I will vote in favour of the statement of urgency under discussion; I understand that a measure has already been adopted in the Senate in this sense, but if we do not give real, real signs of wanting to resolve the matter, the Italian political life will continue to be polluted, misled by these absolutely incomprehensible events, because we continue to maintain, from the moral, political and legal point of view, the immoral tendency to have two weights and two measures for which the laws apply to enemies and instead interpret themselves for friends. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, Ppl, Mid, Apl, E-E, MPL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u39	Tarquinio (CoR). Madam President, frankly, the interesting debate we are holding is inconsistent and certainly hesitant by some of the senators who have spoken. This desire not to intervene on serious issues inherent in the democracy of this country and therefore a certain subdiction to a power of the State (because it is not a matter of order, but unfortunately a power) has of the incredible. The fact that everything must be regulated, that every category must rightly be subject to responsibility, rules, for someone is a problem. We want to underestimate in an incredible way how the House of Deputies stands still for two years such a measure: it is a shame! Why are you afraid? Don't you have to touch anyone? That's not possible. We all need to be touched. There's no problem. The issue of the impartiality of a judge is crucial to the functioning of democracy, as is true information, which is certainly scarce in this country. That is the caste, not this House! That's the real thing. We do not understand that ours is a provocation, because at last someone will have to debate in the House of Members and it does not mean aloud that it is a shame that the President of the Commission, together with the whole Commission and the Bureau, has been blocking for two years a measure of this seriousness and of this scale. I therefore call on the House to vote in favour of the statement of urgency, so that the House of Deputies discusses the measure, so that we know the truth. Certain positions of convenience of some colleagues do not lead anywhere. At a time like this, when in our country the state is becoming less and less, we must have the courage to say that the legislative power must express itself. No one can bend the legislative will, which is not punitive: it is only true democracy, a guarantee of impartiality for citizens. If there is no true justice, if there is no real justice at least, there is no democracy. That is why our provocation is represented by Mr Di Maggio's bill, for which the statement of urgency is called for. That's why I tell everyone there's more at stake. We are voting in favour of the statement of urgency, because in this way the House of Members will finally decide to leave the misunderstanding and to discuss what we have approved. We will always come back to these issues. The real issues to be addressed in the country are these, because the issues of democracy are fundamental to what has been and should be our Constitution, approved in 1947 and entered into force on 1 January 1948. If we do not want to discuss these serious issues, we might as well close these Assemblies. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u40	I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law n. 2265, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u41	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2285. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri has the floor to illustrate the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u42	Madam President, government gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, Italy's image is increasingly clearly defined, in terms of assessments of levels of corruption, as a country exposed to a high degree of corruption in the perception of both citizens and businesses. Above all, there is a growing awareness that corruption is the greatest handicap for the development of the country's economy, to the point that, in the last period, the legislator has strongly strengthened the entire regulatory apparatus to carry out prevention and conflict activities. In the light of these considerations, the substantial, uniform and uniform respect for legality is a prerequisite and a precondition for regulating more and better the principles of equal competition between undertakings, so that the most efficient undertaking can prevail in the market and the market is not trapped in perverse and harmful logics of distortion which, precisely through corruptive phenomena, are determined in a easier and more pronounced way. The subject must also be examined in the light of recent judicial reports. For the truth, the judicial chronicles are updated daily and I will quote, one for all, that of Mafia Capitale (which, because of its breadth, clamour, scope and level of infiltration in the institutions, has also exported beyond the national borders the corruption case), in order to make useful considerations to identify new and more effective regulatory systems to reward the healthy company and, above all, to prevent distorting phenomena realized through systems of corruption can alter the dynamics of the market and free competition. Of course, this analysis must also be carried out with reference to the establishment of a particularly important and of great interest, on which this Assembly has had the opportunity to debate: I am referring to the so-called legal rating, established by Law No 27 of 2012 and which then found its level of more concrete implementation in Article 83 of the Procurement Code, with Legislative Decree No 50 of last April. Basically, the corporate rating system was a system aimed at creating premium conditions. In particular, Article 83 states that, however, the corporate rating condition, which is defined by the allocation of merit stars, is to be applied only for the purposes of the qualification of undertakings. I see the microphone's blinking. However, I think I have ten minutes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is No, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, the time of the discussions is reduced because, as agreed at the Conference of the Leaders, these requests for urgency would have been addressed and discussed trying to contain the times, otherwise they would have totally altered the timetable of the work. So, from now on, let us reduce the time for discussion, as announced by the President at the Conference of the Leaders. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Thank you, Madam President. I had not been informed by my group of such a drastic reduction in time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If you wish, you can complete the illustration for another couple of minutes, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, since he had not been informed. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Thank you for your generosity, Madam President. I shall try to keep my speech as much as possible, in order to comply with the provisions of the Conference of Leaders. Basically, in Article 83 it is expressly provided that the rules of legality shall apply only for the purposes of the qualification of undertakings. It is therefore not at all expected that the legality rating can be applied for the purpose of assigning scores related to the legality criterion and to the respect of the legal conditions and ethical-moral virtuosity of the company. Now, the 8th Chamber and 8th Senate Commissions are carrying out a knowledge-based investigation into the state of implementation and possible possible changes to the discipline of public contracts. In the area of legality, several parliamentary groups are asked to make changes to the current legislation, in order not to create situations of disparities between companies based solely on the turnover parameter. In essence, in addition to the parameter of turnover, which seems not significantly influential in terms of the discipline of access to the public system, the hypothesis is to introduce systems, such as the legal rating, with a more stringent specific weight, also in the assessment of the level of virtuosity of the company. On the basis of this principle, we believe that this proposal for a law intercepts an assessment that has found unanimous references in the context of the need to introduce ethical principles in company behaviour. Therefore, in addition to the assessments and proposals to transform the lexical wording of the legal rating as a guarantee of the legality of the company, it is proposed to extend the level of quality that the company has received from the point of view of the guarantee of legality as a useful system to determine the specific weight of the company in the context of its relationship with the public administration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). That is the meaning of the provision. We believe that it has a strong motivation in the increasingly heavy, complex and worrying extension of the criminal phenomena that occur in the context of relations between certain companies and public administrations. I believe it is a premium system that, if revised in its mode of operation, can represent a useful tool of prevention, but also of reward for the healthy companies that operate in our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u45	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Madam President, while I welcome the spirit of this proposal, I would like to point out that during the debate and then the approval of the delegation law that modified the procurement code, the Assembly (not only that of the Senate, but also that of the Chamber) has devoted a great deal of attention to the issue of legal rating and corporate rating. I would like to remind you that, on this side, we have assigned a specific role to the DAC, through one of the guidelines for the timely preparation of the corporate rating, which of course starts from the evaluation of the criteria of the legal rating. I therefore believe that if we were to intervene today with this proposal for a law, of which - I repeat - I share the basic spirit, we would be facing a short circuit with what the House has worked on and will be intervening at a fairly crucial time. It is precisely in these weeks and hours that the DAC is producing the draft guideline which, moreover, will be submitted to Parliament through the evaluation of the relevant parliamentary committees. I would therefore ask Members who have proposed a statement of urgency on this draft law to consider this matter. I would suggest that we suspend the discussion of some of these issues, including the elimination of the threshold of two million: this is a delicate subject, which is crossed, in a way, I would say, inescapable with that of the management of subcontracting. Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri, you know very well that very often below that turnover threshold there is the largest part of the system of small and very small companies operating under subcontracting and - as you know - we tried to tighten on subcontracting, not without controversy by some important trade associations, to prevent small companies becoming cannon meat. I would therefore like to suggest to my colleagues that they stop on this point, waiting (I think it is a matter of a maximum of one month) for the draft guidelines to be drawn up by the DAC, on which we can of course start the debate very seriously. In fact, I believe that the whole of Parliament has the will - also expressed through the work done on the procurement code - to understand how to avoid that on this ground there is no competition between companies operating in the legal market and those which instead (and we know that there are, it is not only the judicial reports that tell us) operate in an opaque and illegal market. I say this even for a banality: changing the term "rating" with "guarantee" without doing the etymology of the word, would immediately result in the need to intervene with a change in the procurement code. It's trivial, but we should do it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Therefore, the proposal I am making is to put aside the subject and reproduce this work in the Commission as soon as the ANAC guideline arrives.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u46	I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law No. 2285, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco. It's not approved. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u47	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2315. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Bruni has the floor to illustrate the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u48	Madam President, this draft law and our request for a statement of urgency arise from the bare and raw reality of the numbers that concern so-called predatory crimes and, above all, those that have raised a particular social alarm, as the numbers of recent years show. Just to give you an assessment parameter, the crimes against the public administration, for which we have been engaged for a few weeks in the discussion on changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure with regard to the prescription, represent 4% of the total, while the predatory crimes are almost double. In particular in 2013 we recorded one and a half million thefts and 44,000 robberies; the 2009-2013 trend recorded an increase of 22 percent of the thefts and 18 percent of the robberies. In particular, the most important area for which this bill is proposed is home robberies that have grown by 85 percent in the face of street robberies that have grown by 22 percent. As we know, self-defense falls, as it is designed in the current penal code, into the category of criminals for whom a crime loses the connotation of anti-juridism. However, we must take note of the current conditions and the changed social context, aggravated - as the above figures show - by the economic crisis and the phenomenon of illegal immigration. I say this not because of xenophobia in relation to immigration, but certainly because of unregulated illegal immigration, which results in a series of inconveniences even in terms of receptiveness within our cities, it also creates a multiplier effect from this point of view, because the data we have shown a greater impact on the illegal immigrant. So there is the need, which is the ratio of this bill, to protect the right to security, which is enshrined in Article 3 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. What's the difference? Currently, in Article 52 of the Criminal Code, this type of criminal is regulated and, in particular in the second paragraph, reference is made to cases of breach of domicile referred to in the first and second paragraphs of Article 614, of the Criminal Code, for which there must be a proportion if some use a weapon to defend their own or others' safety or, in the case of their own or others' property, if there is no existence or if there is a danger of aggression. Therefore, the assumptions were and are: the topicality of the danger, the unjust offense, the inevitability of the defensive reaction, to which is added, pursuant to the amendments introduced by Law No 59 of 2016, also the presumption of existence of a proportion between offense and defense. The aggressor therefore finds himself having to assess the existence of the requirements that I have mentioned before; and if the malicious man intends to offend only the assets, he still has to determine whether there is no existence and the danger of aggression. Article 56, third paragraph, of the Criminal Code provides that if the perpetrator voluntarily ceases to act under penalty only for acts carried out if they constitute a different crime. Therefore, the existence will certainly not be for trespassing, as it is a crime already committed, but it will certainly happen for the theft and the robbery. I would therefore like to explain the amendment that we are introducing in Article 52-a. With our bill, legitimate home defense becomes an independent criminal. A citizen assaulted in his or her own home or in other places of private residence shall no longer be required to assess whether or not the intruder constitutes a present danger to himself or to others, or to discern whether he or she is acting as a conduct of personal or patrimonial aggression. In this last case the attacker is exempted from assessing whether the attacker is actually setting in motion a deliberately deexistent course being all the aforementioned humanly inexplicable assessments, taking into account the emotional stress in which the attacker is called upon to face a stranger who has entered his home. Finally, in order to balance the opposing interests involved, the orientation of the Supreme Court has also been taken into account and in the bill two hypotheses of existence are outlined excluding the operation of the new criminal in two cases: whether the attacker spontaneously moves away or, for whatever factor outside his will, if he is given to escape. Madam President, this is the draft law for which we are calling for a statement of urgency.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u51	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Madam President, government gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, Cicero in his Prayer "Pro Tito Annio Milone" claimed that the principle vim repeling you licet is a rule of natural law that belongs to human conscience. On the other hand, the frequent illegal activities that are perpetrated by crime in the private and working places of the people who, honestly, produce and operate in our country, in order to obtain an undue possession of goods and that often cause offense, even serious damage not only to the heritage, but also to the people. There is no doubt, as Senator Bruni pointed out punctually, that citizens today are faced with the need to defend themselves, their families and their property from systematic violations of their homes and shops, which take place by criminals who, alone or organized in gangs, increasingly with ruthless ways are leading into the day and night hours in shops, homes or places where work is carried out, taking everything considered profitable and endangering the safety of anyone who is present. In order to better protect citizens from this kind of predation, we believe that the State must, in its capacity as supreme guarantor of public and private security, allow a regime of protection through a more extensive case of self-defense than is currently provided for by the current legislation. That is why we believe it is necessary to introduce an amendment to the existing order of urgency, and that is the argument that we strongly support.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u54	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we absolutely feel obliged to speak on this issue, because the North Legacy Group has fought a great battle for the amendment of Article 52 of the Criminal Code, in the area of self-defence. That is why we are voting in favour of the request for an urgent declaration on draft law No 2315. We would point out, however, that, in the event that this statement is accepted by the Assembly (as I think it is necessary), the draft law in question must be dealt with in conjunction with the text proposed by our group's senators on the same subject. 11:18 a.m. (Follows STEFANI). The draft law tabled by my fellow Members provides in essence for absolutely positive changes, but we believe that our proposal is improving, because it does not provide for the configuration of a new criminal, but simply aims to introduce a presumption of self-defense. In our opinion, whenever a malicious person enters a home, a company, an office or a private studio and does so with a misguided face, either with weapons or in a group, for this same reason the owner must be entitled to defend himself. The draft laws proposed in the matter of self-defense, in fact, only reopen a long and difficult problem, linked to the fact that the magistrate was granted too wide a margin of discretion in the assessment of proportionality between the offence and the defense. If each time the individual situation is to be analysed in its entirety, it is always very difficult to believe whether or not self-defense exists. I have two examples from Vicenza. I am referring to the case of Graziano Stacchio, a gas stationman, who, in the face of the shots of some criminals, who were trying to rob Kalashhnikovs, even though he was a neighbour of the goldsmith who was the victim of the attempted robbery, held a rifle to respond to the shots, killing the criminal. In this case, the end has come to a filing order. The same did not happen, however, for Ermes Mattielli, a tailor who saw himself in front of two nomads, who entered his property, in order to remove copper and, armed with a squeeze, intimidated him. This gentleman shot, did not kill the two criminals, but was sentenced to five years and four months and a compensation of 135,000 euros for these nomads. Meanwhile he died: the prison did not see her, certainly not because justice came to meet him, but because, unfortunately, nature was opposed to him. Therefore, we believe that the institute of self-defense, although modified by the then Minister Castelli in 2006, is still poorly applied, because it is poorly interpreted. The change that we had introduced in 2006 wanted to foresee a form of presumption, but whenever one leaves the possibility of discretion in the assessment, as in the case provided for in Article 52 of the Criminal Code, in which it must be verified, for example, if there is a dexistence, problems are created. In our opinion, however, the rule in question must be revised, in the sense of having more stringent application parameters in order to be able to be effectively applied. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u57	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the statement of urgency on draft law No 2315, which carries out an application, which has already been received by a draft law of 2006, of which I am honoured to have been the third signatory. This rule established the presumption of proportionality of the instruments used for self-defense, in the cases described by colleagues. The 2006 rule has had positive effects, but I think it is worth reviewing this issue. The proposal by my colleagues, Mr Bonfrisco, Mr Bruni and others, has the advantage of proposing another structuring of the forecast, i.e. to make the discrimination independent and not as a special case of self-defense. Of course, I believe that we need coordination with Article 52, which would otherwise run the risk of repeating it. It is important to show that Parliament is interested in the concrete problems of the citizens. And, among them, there is not only the problem of the 44,000 robberies that have occurred recently in the homes. There is also the problem of millions of Italians who are afraid of entering those statistics tomorrow. It is, then, a duty for the citizens to examine whether a change in the rule of self-defence is possible in order to make situations clearer. It is not acceptable for citizens to be condemned for legitimately defending themselves. I remember that, before the 2006 law, there was the problem of the proportionality of the offense and, in some cases, the norm had been interpreted in a mechanical way: if the criminal attacks you with a knife and you shoot him, there is no proportion. There is, however, a problem. Usually the criminal is young and vigorous and very often the attacker is an elderly person or, however, weak. But even if there is not such a disproportion among people, there is one from the point of view of psychological attitude: the criminal knows very well what he is going to do; he is determined and he is equipped with what he needs - it can be a firearm, a cutting gun or simply an iron bar, which can be as effective as a gun to kill a person - while the person who finds himself an intruder in the house has no idea who he is, or who he is, of their intentions and has every reason to fear the worst. The 2006 law allowed abnormal sentences to fall in number - perhaps now close to zero - but the problem of people being acquitted remains, yes, but only after years of judicial ordeal. The record of duration of our processes is well known. While the criminal faces trials as part of his profession, the good person, who respects the law and remains for years hung not only from a trial (and this is not a small thing), but from a trial for murder or serious or serious injury, is certainly suffering a serious psychological and even social trauma. At first, in fact, everyone remembers that that person is under trial for a matter of self-defense, but after a few years runs the risk of being remembered as the one who has troubles with justice. A person, therefore, simply by having defended himself and his family, risks having his own life ruined from a personal and social point of view. We must avoid such events at the root and, if we need an amendment to the law, let us welcome it. [[Applause from Senator Amidei.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u60	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, the presenters of bill No 2315, which proposes amendments to the penal code concerning the introduction of the new criminal in the area of legitimate defence in private homes, address a very serious issue: predatory crimes (thefts, muggings, robberies and home invasions) are a relevant issue for us. We believe that, although the latest data confirm that such crimes are decreasing, it is a serious mistake to underestimate or even minimize or reach the paradox of denying the issue in its relevance and seriousness that is manifested in everyday life. In fact, for the Democratic Party, security is a new generation right. I even think it can become - and must become - so important that it is considered constitutional. How, then, can we respond to the serious events that happen every day, even if their number is slightly decreasing? How can we ensure that the right to security is not undermined in the regulatory apparatus, in our history and in our country? By reforming the institution of self-defense? This work was already done by Parliament in 1996. We have some difficulty in putting this issue back into the economy of parliamentary work of the last few days. We believe that a modern state, when it has the ambition to reform itself and the ability to take the right to security by the hand and assume it as its priority, as a fundamental task and a duty to exercise its power, must first guarantee the right to inviolability of home and, therefore, the right to security. It is a priority function of the state. How, however - said this - can we not leave the serious course of crime in its course? We are giving an answer; the Government is giving an answer. Colleagues, just in the last few hours we are debating, and we will approve, a bill that is known as a reform of the criminal process, which devotes its first part precisely to predatory crimes, and specifically Articles 4 and 6. The Justice Commission, after examining them, has made a virtually unanimous assessment of the merits of the proposal to aggravate crimes against the property, and the theft at home and with rip-off, aggravated theft and robbery respectively, increasing the penalties and excluding, in relation to the crime of theft, the balancing of certain circumstances. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we do not think it appropriate to proceed in these days with a measure which could change a reform already made in 1996 and which has very delicate profiles. I have given a first reading to the draft law which is being proposed to us and which is already evident in some coordinations that should be studied well by Article 52 of the Criminal Code, in addition to the need to review the principle of offense and proportionality on which our Court has intervened several times. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we do not believe that we should proceed. Ours is not a no to the right to security and the need to strike predatory crimes. We would just like to highlight the need for a good assessment of the measure in the Commission in order to ensure that we can choose the most modern, advanced and most correct and consistent path with a modern state that wants to reform itself and does not want to delegate the right to defence to the individual citizen.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u63	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take up the last words of Senator Lumia, namely that we need to assess the circumstances well before we change the law on self-defense again, which was already reformed in 1996. Italy of Values, between April 2016 and September 2016 (and therefore in less than five months), collected two million signatures of citizens on the bill of popular initiative n. 2433, which was deposited on June 1, 2016 with 1,218,000 signatures, to which were added in September another 800,000, which we deposited to the Senate. We are, of course, interested in the safety of citizens, and so we have presented this bill of popular initiative which has led to the movement of the people who have gone to sign. It is clear that the popular feeling is high and people feel very insecure in their home, unprotected and guaranteed in the process. These people, in fact, if they have defended themselves from an attack, are accused and are subjected to important expenses to exculpate themselves, thus entering a long and far-fetched process. I agree that the penal code has responded to a small part of what the draft laws require, including the increase in penalties (the minimum penalties for crimes, thefts and robberies are increased). The point is, maybe something more can be done. If then there is no immediate urgency - as Senator Lumia has pointed out - it is necessary to take into account that a popular urgency exists and that people have moved for this: if two million people have signed, obviously the problem is heard. The law of popular initiative under consideration is currently in place, but with our Constitution it has no obligation to be discussed. With constitutional reform, if it goes through, the laws of popular initiative with 150,000 signatures - and we are ahead, because we have two million - will at least be taken into account. Therefore, even if there is no urgency now, I call on the President of the Justice Commission, Senator D'Ascola, and the Vice Presidents to consider the bill of popular initiative which concerns the self-defense and security of their home, so that it can be discussed again. Although it was revised in 1996, we are in 2016 and in twenty years have changed even the way and the heinousness with which the theft is carried out. I therefore believe that a serious assessment should be carried out. If we do not have this emergency-emergency today, I think we must resolve an emergency within a few months. [[Applause from Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u66	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, Mr Lumia has concluded his speech by saying that he is opposed to urgency, because the State cannot delegate its defence to the individual citizen. Generally speaking, I agree perfectly with this, because I am perplexed by a situation like that of the United States of America where people turn armed and defend themselves, perhaps doing more damage than they could do in a country like Italy, where rightly the Carabinieri and the Police guarantee public order and prevent the commingling of crimes. Here, however, we are not talking about these cases. We are talking about situations in which a person, mainly at night, finds himself inside his own home individuals who have entered it, if that's okay, with the intention of stealing and, if it goes wrong (as happened in hundreds of cases), to massacre the people in it who find it, sometimes even killing. And of course, you don't know in advance, when you find a thief in the middle of the night in your apartment, if your intentions are only to steal or bring the crime to terrible consequences. Moreover, Roman law is not so despicable and the Romans, with a famous brocardo, said that, when one performs an illegal action, he also responds to what happens to him by chance. But who's answering what's going on? The thief who enters at night or the homeowner who reacts to the intrusion? Dear colleague Lumia, it is true that in this reform of the penal code, which I do not know if it will come to light given the continuous referrals, we have foreseen that for certain predatory crimes the penalties will be increased. Increasing, however, the penalties for predatory crimes, including the thefts taking place in homes, does not solve the problem of self-defense. What is written in this reform about the increase in the penalties for predatory crimes has nothing to do with the dramatic problem of those who, having suffered an intrusion into their private life that has put their property and family at risk, are then under trial on the basis of an interpretation of their right to defend themselves, questioned; right questioned perhaps at the table, maybe two years later, without having calculated the psychological situation of that person when, suddenly, in the peace and tranquility of their home, they find themselves confronted with an intruder, in addition to fear and indeed terror for themselves and their own children. So what do we do? Do we still refer the possibility of solving this problem to the Greek calende? Mr President, it is written in all the courts not only that the law is the same for everyone, but also that judgments are issued on behalf of the Italian people. I would then like to know how you would answer - but I am sure of the answer - the vast majority of the Italian people (maybe excluding those who go to robberies and looting in the homes of people, Italians or non-EU citizens who are) to the question whether a citizen has the right to defend himself in his own home, at the moment when he is violated and finds inside people who are ill-intentioned; 99 percent of the Italian people would respond in the opposite way to the reasoning made by Senator Lumia: there is absolutely this right. Then there will be coordination and balance, and a balanced but precise rule will have to be made, because it is clear that the legislator's attempt to clarify the sacrosanct right of a citizen to defend himself in such situations has been emptied by an incorrect interpretation of the judiciary. Therefore, we vote with conviction on the urgency of examining this measure, because the emergency is real and real and if people's trust in the institutions fails, it is also because, in the face of the striking examples that each citizen understands, the need to defend themselves against aggression, in the end those who pay through the trial, perhaps even having to compensate hundreds of thousands of euros, is not the aggressor but is the attacker. We must put an end to this situation and, therefore, we will vote firmly in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u67	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2315. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law No 2315 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law No 2315, made by Senator Bonfrisco. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u68	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2452. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Liuzzi has the floor to explain the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for years now Italian citizens have been bombarded with telephone calls, both on fixed telephone numbers and - above all - on mobile phone numbers, by operators who propose, on behalf of management companies in different sectors, the sale of a particular product, the change of operator or the conclusion of a new service contract. Of course, the ethical codes of self-regulation, which the telemarketing companies have equipped themselves with, are important, but they are not enough in the face of the large number of calls that citizens are subjected to daily and the insistence of operators who often exceed the limits of good education and decency. The citizen appears and is powerless in the face of this, and it is therefore necessary and urgent to strengthen the rules to protect users. Deciding whether or not to receive calls from sellers is a right of citizens who cannot and must not be limited: this right should be exercised with a simple question, the consequence of which can only be the immediate deletion of the telephone number from any list that may be in possession of telephone marketing companies. In order to achieve this objective, this bill aims to provide citizens with a stronger tool to defend themselves against unwanted calls. The citizen's right to enter, with a simple request, his telephone number (whether fixed or mobile) in the public register of oppositions referred to in the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Regulation referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic n. 178 of 2010, whether or not the numbering is already present in the public list of subscribers. Today, for citizens, it is possible to register in the public register of oppositions and, therefore, to ask not to receive calls from operators for advertising or direct sales, or for market research or commercial communication, only if their number is present in the obsolete public lists and that is essentially for fixed network numbers. As we know, however, of the more than 90 million mobile phone numbers operating in Italy, there are very few ones already present in these telephone directories. It is no coincidence that the draft law under consideration was presented on the same day on which the President of the Data Protection Authority, in the annual report held in the Senate on 28 June last, reported that there is an uncontrollable aggression of telemarketing operators, the wild one in particular, that comes to seriously compromise the individual tranquility, also stressing that in the first half of this year only about 3,000 reports have already arrived to the Authority guaranteeing promotional calls deemed illegal: an unproposed number that, beyond any action of contrast, continues to grow. Also in his report, the President of the Data Protection Authority called for new and more effective regulatory measures, including the possibility of including all fixed and mobile users in the public register of oppositions. Indeed, on 14 January last we Conservatives and Reformists tabled an amendment to the draft competition law with the aim of giving a quick solution to the problem. We simply wanted to introduce the possibility for the citizen to enter his mobile phone number in the public register of oppositions. The amendment, however, which has been reworded several times to us, was eventually rejected and I would say fortunately, because in the last version that was proposed to us there was an incomprehensible desire to automatically transfer all cell phone numbers into the opposition register. This would have produced the effect of making it impossible for call centres to continue their activity, with an inevitable employment impact on the more than 40,000 operators in the sector, a serious damage to the country's economy. With the bill in question, we want to exceed the limit of the current legislation. In conclusion, Mr President, I note that Article 1 of this draft law provides that they may oppose the use of their telephone number, for market research or commercial communication purposes, persons whose numbers are included in the list of subscribers or not; it is also expected that numbers not published in the public register of oppositions will also be entered in the public telephone lists, at the request of the parties concerned. By initiating the examination in the Commission, we all have the opportunity to cooperate in extending access to the public register of oppositions, but also to correct the disruptions and dysfunctions that users experience every day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u72	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, our Group shares the draft own-initiative law of Senator Bonfrisco and also the request for an urgent statement, because, as in recent times, we are not aware of what telephone marketing has become. Every day we receive, in fact, phone calls that very often are too insistent, even from the point of view of correctness. The problem, however, is another. In our country there has never been a serious discussion of the issue or - better - it has been done by proposing an overly tranchant sponge stroke and without setting rules, as often happens in Italy when dealing with such issues. It would be enough to take and copy what is done in other countries, to realize that there is the possibility to put first a brake on the system of wild telemarketing and, at the same time, to protect those who, through this process, make legitimate business. In fact, there is no doubt that many people work within those structures and some citizens want to be able to use the services proposed through their procedures. Of course, if we leave everything as it currently is in our country, we will certainly have problems with regard to privacy, and not only that. Therefore, without going too far, we adhere to this proposal and we also allow ourselves to point out that, in times not suspicious (exactly on 5 September 2015), we have submitted a bill, assigned to the Commission Justice, to amend Articles 7, 129 and 130 of the Code on the protection of personal data (legislative decree 30 June 2003, n. 196), concerning the processing of data for advertising or telephone sales purposes. In the draft law under consideration, the intention to make some changes to the code is clearly expressed, by establishing a public register of oppositions, entrusted to the Authority for the guarantees in communications, so that users who have expressed their disagreement no longer receive calls for advertising purposes. The aim, in fact, is not to eliminate this case entirely with a sponge stroke. This is almost impossible, because there are so many registers and the issue has become a disaster. The most difficult thing is to intervene to protect those users who, at the time, have agreed to be contacted for advertising purposes and now have difficulty in withdrawing it. Different case is that of those who have not expressed any consent or dissent on the processing of their data, and are in the middle of the ford. In essence, in order to conclude and without going into too much detail, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to put a stop to this phenomenon, which is becoming a problem but, at the same time, it is necessary to set rules within which to work those who make legitimate market promotion with the systems in question. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u75	RANUCCI (PD). Mr President, who of us at home at night was not disturbed by an improper phone call, at times when he did not want to be, for the promotion of any product? I would like to point out, however, that we are starting not from scratch, but from the September 2010 regulation, which has been referred to by a number of colleagues and which has established the public register of oppositions. I would like to remind everyone what the public register of opposition is: it is a service designed to protect citizens whose number is present in the public telephone directories and who decide no longer to receive phone calls for commercial purposes. How does it work? I believe that this is a relevant thing to say, because many of us do not know exactly how this very important instrument works. The system is clear, easy to access and easy to operate. The subscriber can access the service through five ways: electronic form on the website, e-mail, telephone call, registered letter and fax. The operator can subscribe to the system and carry out all the operations planned for the updating of its numerical lists, to be contacted through a series of services available. Therefore, we certainly start from a regulation which is in the interests of consumer protection. And here I would like to take a part of Mr Crosio's speech on the complexity of the subject. On the one hand, we need promotion and, on the other, consumer protection. That is why I believe that this is a very important measure, but it needs careful consideration. It is true what is being asked, namely that mobile phones should probably also be included in the list. But there is also a part of the country that asks us that it cannot be activated if there is no reversal, that is, I ask you to call me and that I make available to you my phone number. Here there are certainly various needs intertwined, those of marketing and that of data protection, as has been mentioned and as the Data Protection Authority mentioned here, on 28 June 2016. I would also like to mention one other thing: the deal was assigned to Commission 8a on 14 September. The latter is a Commission that normally works in a completely unified way, where the various positions are brought into a real and political confrontation. Therefore, the hope is surely to carry out this bill, probably improving it and trying to understand what the missing points can be within it. The hope is surely to make it soon, but certainly there can be no statement of urgency, at a time when we have to deal with many other things, and it certainly cannot be included with an amendment in the Competition Decree-Law. Therefore, we will reject the request for a statement of urgency, although we believe that this is an important issue for the protection of citizens' privacy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u78	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I asked to speak on this draft law because I was the rapporteur and, indeed, the author of the amendment which introduced the register of oppositions. The previous framework provided for prior authorisation to make telephone calls. The problem that still exists was that there were monopolist telephone operators (whose name we do not mention) who, over the years, had obtained a general consensus, through a kind of silence-consent, before the laws before the 2010 law came into force. Therefore, millions of Italians - practically all those who were alive and possessed a telephone when the monopolist operator existed - were included in the lists that the manager sold to anyone, whatever they sold, because they were his property. This clearly constituted a breach of competition - so it would be a very good amendment to the draft competition law (it would be your place) and so I am surprised to hear that it cannot be done - as well as being a problem for citizens: in fact, you must have the right not to be called. The opposition register was included in a draft delegation law with a variety of arguments. However, in the work of drafting the implementing decrees, a serious restriction has been made on the law voted by Parliament, on a proposal for an amendment of mine. In other words, the possibility of being entered in the register of oppositions, which is the register to which you can register by telephone, fax or e-mail. Those who are included in that list, on the basis of the controls they must carry out by law those who make telepromotions (commercial promotions by telephone), cannot be called. Unfortunately, however, the implementing decree provided for the register to be accessible only for fixed phones and only for those included in public lists.There is therefore a number of cases, starting with all mobile phones, which are now mainly used by people, and many types of telephone users, which are excluded. This is very simple: it is a matter of doing what the 2010 law already required, that is, allowing all types of telephone users to be included in the opposition register. And this does not mean that one can no longer be called: he can give authorization, but he must be preventive and serious. The situation prior to the 2010 Act was that authorisation had often been given unknowingly or, even, had not been given. After 2010, the problem of cell phone exclusion remained. He is not asking to approve this rule immediately, but only to declare its urgency. It is a very simple thing, which had to be done at the time; then probably resistance from the government official made sure to exclude mobile phones. I believe it is a right not to be called to all hours of the day and night by people who propose to change the contract of the telephone, the users, the electricity manager and so on. I think it would be very cheap to declare urgency, but we see that there is also opposition from the Government. We understand that there are interests of large companies that are against, but we are on the side of the citizens and we would like to protect them. Companies have every right to promote their products, but they cannot do so against the will of those who suffer from phone calls. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u81	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, ensuring an adequate level of protection of privacy and the full protection of personal data are the challenges that we face at all levels in the big data age. Legal experience, both at European and national level, has been characterised over time by careful reflection on these issues, which has led to the construction of a comprehensive system of guarantees to protect the fundamental right to privacy of citizens. In this direction, Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, entitled "Right to respect for private and family life" recognises the right to confidentiality as a fundamental right, stating that: There can be no interference by a public authority in the exercise of this right unless such interference is provided for by law and constitutes a measure which, in a democratic society, is necessary for national security, public security, the economic well-being of the country, for the defence of order and for the prevention of crimes, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. In more recent times, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union has brought this fundamental right back into the European constitutional framework by Articles 7 and 8. In particular, Article 8 expressly provides that: "Everyone has the right to the protection of personal data concerning him or her. Such data must be processed in accordance with the principle of loyalty, for determined purposes and on the basis of the consent of the person concerned.I repeat, on the basis of the consent of the person concerned, or on another legitimate basis provided for by law. Everyone has the right to access the collected data concerning him and to obtain the correction. Compliance with these rules shall be subject to the supervision of an independent authority. These constitutional pillars have an articulated system of protection shaped by the European directives that have occurred over the years, as transposed by the individual national laws and merged into our country in the code on the protection of personal data referred to in Legislative Decree no. 196 of 30 June 2003. One of the pillars of the system of protection of the right to privacy is the consent, without which, unless justified exceptions, it is not possible to carry out any processing of personal data that can be considered legitimate. This consent rule is also the lintel of the European Regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the circulation of such data, which will soon be an innovation, which will represent, at the continental level and not only, the driving force behind the modernisation of the system of protection of privacy in the age of the Internet and big data. In the framework described so far, Article 130 of the Code on the protection of personal data, as reported by Article 20- bis of the draft law of 25 September 2009, n. 135, converted with amendments by the law of 20 November 2009, n. 166, address book "unsolicited communications" represents a singular and censorable moment of discontinuity in the articulated system of protection prepared. With the news reported, the legislator intended to adopt an opt-out system with regard to commercial communications directed at citizens whose numbers are present in the list of subscribers, providing that such communications are allowed regardless of the consent of the data subject. What does this article say in particular? Such communications shall be permitted in respect of those who have not exercised the right of opposition, in simplified ways and also by electronic means, by entering the numbering of which they are registered and the other personal data referred to in Article 129 (1) in a public register of oppositions. In essence, we have already put forward a proposal, even more comprehensive than that of my colleague, which means that the mechanism must be reversed, i.e. that of opt-in, so by default any telephone number must be protected and I must be the consumer to give express authorisation to be contacted. This, in accordance with European directives, is the vision of the 5 Star Movement on respect for privacy. For this reason, however, we will support the draft law of our colleague, although I repeat that our position is even more comprehensive and penetrating in the subject matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u84	MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the senators before me have well explained the meaning of this bill. I would also like to say this with my own words: the current legislation, as Senator Malan reminded us, provides that in order to be registered in the register of oppositions you must publish your telephone number, fixed or mobile, in a public list. Therefore it is necessary to emerge from privacy to be protected by telemarketing. This is the substance of the current legislation, or rather the application of a regulation applying a decree. The problem that this bill wants to address is real: it seeks to unlock and solve a paradox. In the draft competition law we have dealt with it in Article 23 (now Article 24), on which there have been amendments, not all of them correct, which have tried to solve this problem. In the amendments that will be tabled in the Chamber shortly to the draft law approved by the Commission there are three amending proposals tabled by the signatories of this bill, by Senator Girotto for the 5 Star Movement and by Senator Sollo. These amendments are basically the same - and in some cases they are the same - as the current draft law. I do not believe that there are any a priori objections to them, either from the rapporteurs or from the government to address them in positive and constructive terms, if anything with some adjustment in the Chamber at the time when the draft competition law will be presented. I therefore believe that the statement of urgency is inappropriate at this time, because in a few weeks' time this House will be committed to the draft competition law and will deal with Article 24 on which there are three amendments on which the rapporteurs and the Government, with a positive proposition, are prepared to examine and contribute to trying to resolve the problem. I would like to add that one of the reasons why the Commission did not immediately adopt amendments on this subject was precisely what the Guarantor put at the end of his report on this subject: as in any area of competition and liberalisation, the point is always to strike a balance between the right demands of users and consumers and the system of production and service companies. It is clear that the issue of the closure of the calls centers put by the Authority, here mentioned in some intervention, if it narrows too much on the issue of the register of oppositions, is a real issue that applies to any subject relating to competition and liberalisation. For these reasons, the People's Area Group will vote against the statement of urgency.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u87	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make one particular point. First of all, I do not think this bill is so urgent at the moment, so I think it can also be postponed. In any case, I would like to make a thought. Yesterday's news is that the headquarters of Almaviva in Palermo, a software company that also has a call center in Palermo, will be relocated and consequently many workers will lose their jobs. I remember that, in addition to helping, there are also people in the call centers who contact us by phone and "disturbing" us to inform us that there are other possibilities to manage our telephone users, the electric one and more. However, they inform us that, in this competitive market, there are other companies that could offer the same service at a lower price. If on the one hand you want all people to be able to register in the public register of oppositions, not to be violated in privacy, on the other hand we tear our clothes when the same call centers, which do not have the possibility to reach a sufficient volume of business, not being able to inform people about what the market offers, are forced to fire their own staff. This leads me to reflect on the dualism between ensuring that we are not violated in our privacy and protecting jobs. From this comes my reflection. For these reasons, I think that, at this moment, it is not urgent and priority to examine the measure in question, so that the Group of Italy of Values will vote in the opposite direction to the request for a statement of urgency in relation to draft law n. 2452.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u90	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I will speak very quickly, because all the most important issues have already been mentioned in the text. I would particularly like to thank Senator Malan for reconstructing, from a historical and legislative point of view, the tribulation of the citizen in the face of the use of his telephone number. To my colleague Girotto, who refers and refers back to a wider position than the 5 Star Movement, I respond with great favor. In addition, Mr Crosio is already a signatory to an important and even broader bill, compared to the one I have presented, which could finally find its proper approval in this House and in Parliament as a whole. Mr President, in the end, of all the considerations, even those that are awaited by the Democratic Party and the majority as a whole, the loser is only the citizen and he puts us back in two ways, in my opinion equally important: firstly, from the point of view of his right to have his privacy respected. I must not remind Senator Ranucci of the words of the Data Protection Supervisor, because the bill in question was born precisely following the hearing of the Data Protection Supervisor in the Senate, who strongly recalled us to our duty as legislators in protecting the rights of citizens, not only and not so much as not to be "disturbed" because the point is not the disturbance. In fact, I have the concern that we all have about call centers, because there are mostly young people in there, who must be able to work, even if it would be most appropriate within that world that, starting from contracts and work organisation, there should be greater transparency. Returning to the point, I remind Senator Luigi Marino - who, however, contradicts what I had just said by Senator Ranucci of the Democratic Party, for which the problem exists, but there is no urgency to address it - that the texts of the amendments, as they have been presented, have had a history as much tribulation, with four rewordings. The rapporteurs and the Commission have had to work hard to find very delicate points of balance, which I know well: respect for the work of their colleagues, who have tried to save goats and cabbages; in doing so, however, I strongly urge that we follow a polar star, the one made up of the protection of citizens' rights, its role and economic value within this context. The point is not if someone is disturbed, but if the citizen is aware of participating, with his telephone number, in an economic organization, or if his telephone number is at the mercy of anyone who can sell it. In the era in which this Government presents - only a few days ago - the transition from the industrial economy to the digital one, digital ownership through its telephone number is one of the fundamental issues of this new dimension of the economy. If we start off on the wrong foot towards this new dimension, we will do great economic damage, as well as civil and social, to our citizens. I would just like to point out that, on the bill on the systems for collecting signatures - such as the one guaranteed by the change.org website, over 100,000 signatures were collected last night from citizens who are asking to make this law right away. The bill is committing the Senate for fifty minutes of discussion: there is time to deepen and improve, but the time has come to act, vote, do their duty and represent citizens and their needs. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Crosio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u91	Before we proceed to the vote, we greet the comprehensive institute "Berto Barbarani" of Minerbe, in the province of Verona. His students and teachers are following our work, which testifies that the school cycle is resumed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u92	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for an urgent statement pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure on draft law No 2452. Verification of ZIZA quorum (CoR). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law No 2452 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2452, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u93	Colleagues, I would like to say that the proposal to reverse the discussion of subjects on the agenda of the sitting has been received. Therefore, pursuant to Article 56, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, a reversal of the agenda of today's sitting is proposed, anticipating the examination of the bill n. 2287 (connected to the public finance maneuver), which regulates cinema, audiovisual and entertainment, compared to the bill n. 2067, which amends the penal code and the penitentiary order.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u96	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are quite perplexed about the choice of the majority, because it further stigmatizes the paradoxical situation we are experiencing. The Premier goes on television (and also on radio this morning): he is resuming the habit that Sala had when, as Commissioner of Expo, he went every morning to RTL to advertise himself, except then run for mayor. Every day we hear the Premier say that he does, then does and still does, that we need to amend the Constitution to make the laws faster, that the country needs to speed up etcetera, but the majority, by their own inability, is nailing both this branch of Parliament and the other one for two weeks. We haven't had surgery in two weeks. Compared to the criminal trial, the fact that you are asking today for the order of the day to be reversed, anticipating a law that concerns cinema, is at least theatrical: you also lack the sense of ridicule! In the face of this, I really ask you not to tell the country the balls, President. Enough of this stuff. In Italy we need less laws, but more serious. Above all, we need a more serious majority. The advance that we are opposed to on this subject. [[Applause from Senator Comaroli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u99	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we are absolutely opposed to the proposal to reverse the agenda. Today was the day and yesterday we wasted time. For two weeks now this House has been in a position to virtually not be able to move forward with work on a very important draft law on which there are different opinions and we have our own. However, the divisions of the majority are going on stage, in fact last week most of the pieces were missing the quorum. Furthermore, let us be clear, we will not allow this House to be used to stage other pieces of propaganda for the referendum. Does the majority not want this House to do anything to show that Parliament does not work in this way, that the Senate does not work? I appeal to the individual senators: this instrumental use of this House must be prevented. We are now seeing everything: we prevent once again the institution from being offended, because that is what is happening. That is why we are absolutely against the reversal of the agenda. Let's be serious! [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u100	Colleagues, the Rules of Procedure provide for intervention in favour of and against. We have already heard the opposite and the absolutely opposite. However, given the importance of the subject, I allow a Senator per Group to intervene for no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u103	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have to say that during today's debate, I listened to things of considerable seriousness. I start, for example, from what you said, Mr President, in your speech, namely essentially a mission abroad under the pretext of not knowing which governmental function, all aimed at a political propaganda instrumental in the referendum with the use of state structures not for governmental reasons but exquisitely political. Just as I was perplexed to imagine and think about what Senator Giovanardi said, that is, one of our ministers who is being accompanied in this pseudomission by a subject subjected to criminal proceedings. Now, I am well aware that the President-in-Office of the Council has repeatedly shown guarantee, as perhaps in recent times Minister Boschi, but I also remember how long ago the President-in-Office of the Council and Minister Boschi asked, with a form of excessive moralism, for the resignation of Minister Chancellors who was certainly not investigated at the time. Mr President, what we are witnessing is indeed a paradox: we have complained about the delay in this measure, perhaps to make an attack on my person, forgetting that at the time there was the budgetary session and the provision on civil unions but then, after the presidency changed, only two months after the arrival of the measure, the measure itself remained firm because the majority did not agree on the prescription. When it finally seemed that the child had been given birth, so much so that there was a considerable acceleration in the Commission's justice, we found ourselves in this House. An absolute paradox in this House: amendments by the Leader of the Democratic Party in the Justice Commission, by the rapporteur of the Democratic Party in the Justice Commission and the New Right Centre that lacked the quorum because he probably saw the previous agreement blurred or, if possible, "fading." What was the agreement we witnessed in this House? Senator Lumia's amendments have been withdrawn and the quorum has suddenly returned. And let us now move on with a reversal of the agenda, which is still, in one way or another, to Mr Casson's amendments on the subject of limitation, but, on the other hand, to what Minister Orlando said very clearly today, drawing a sort of Brancaleone army of his majority: a half of the Democratic Party of Justice, a half of which guarantees. In any case, a Brancaleone army as a whole, re-entering also the New Right Center that does not have an agreement within it. Mr Orlando tells us that trust has been authorised; colleagues from the New Centre have been given the right to trust in order to maintain the Commission's text where you, as usual, have achieved a downward compromise. In fact, you have to explain to me whether those three years and six months of blocking the limitation between the judgment of first instance and the judgment of appeal and between the judgment of appeal and the judgment of cassation, regardless of the actual procedural activity, do not only resolve in a meaningless extension that will certainly be assessed by the Constitutional Court. Consequently, Mr President, we are opposed to the reversal of the agenda. We will wait for the government, probably after the presentation of the bill of stability, to put its trust in this provision and, as usual, those who complain in the corridor - even with exascited tones - when they come here, will vote for the trust. An army Brancaleone you are, an army Brancaleone you will remain. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u106	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, if we really have to reverse the agenda, I would also put it as an argument, since my Group had so expressed itself, the reopening of the closed houses and I would run for the Senate to become a post-rebulum, given that they are done here alone and exclusively... [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u107	Senator Di Maggio, I'll call you back. Don't take advantage of the inversion to use inconvenient terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u108	IN MAY (CoR). President, I am pleased; they are outraged, but they have only been marching around for some time. And they also have the courage to be indignant. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Protests from the PD Group.]] MATTESINI (PD). Stop!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u109	I'll take your word for it, Senator Di Maggio. I put to the vote the proposal to reverse the agenda, tabled by Senator Di Giorgi and other senators. It's approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u110	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2287, 649 and 1835. I would remind you that at its meeting on 3 August the rapporteur supplemented the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u111	Mr President, the draft law before us presents important guidelines that place audiovisual and cinema at the heart of our country's cultural policies. First of all, I want to stress the pluralism of the offer contained in the bill; the consolidation of the national film industry; the promotion of the circulation and distribution of Italian and European productions in Italy and abroad; vocational training and support also for image education. As we see, they are all very important themes: the latter too, where there is a part not only of support but also of education to the image that I think is very important for the culture and also for the history of our country. The State encourages the role of the Regions and recognizes the activity of the films committed, which are important, as many colleagues know, for the promotion and attraction within the various regions and cities of important international productions. Moreover, this bill takes into account the Italian nationality of the works, establishing some parameters. This is also important, because it means promoting Italian activities. The bill also protects the film heritage, giving a primary role to the National Film Library, which is truly one of the flagship flowers of our country and our culture. Another important point is the enhancement of cinemas in the framework of initiatives for urban regeneration and regeneration of the outskirts and to strengthen and restructure the cinemas. This is another important point, because we do not leave the cities alone but think about improving the quality of life, especially in those neighborhoods that are very often abandoned and that are more difficult. Culture, therefore, as a tool for urban regeneration of cities. An important point, which is very close to my heart, is also what concerns the role of the Luce Cinecittà Institute in the field of programme guidance activities and for the internationalization of the audiovisual industries. It is useless here to remember the history of all these past years, of what Cinecittà was in the fifties and sixties, and not only for Rome and for our country: it was in fact the point of reference of cinematography of all the world. The world came to produce here in Rome, in Cinecittà. This new role is important, precisely in order to bring this capital back, which at this moment really needs it so much because there is an absolute void in it, to be the center of world film production. There is also a strategic role of the Ministry, which coordinates and manages the initiatives that aim to develop film production and audiovisual cinema. This is also an important point, in the sense that the Ministry assumes a fundamental and directing role, as well as the Higher Council of Cinema and Audiovisual. This body is made up of personalities from the cinema and audiovisual sector, who know exactly what this important sector needs. Mr President, I am beginning to conclude by talking about financing and taxation, incentives and benefits through tax credit, the Investment Development Fund and the modernisation of the extraordinary digitalisation plan. These points are important because they mean, once again, to want to save those small halls and place them in a confrontation of modernization of the country. Moreover, very important is the part about the fact that financing and taxation are compared to 11% of the state budget revenue recorded for the previous year. This funding could not be less than EUR 400 million and was derived from IRES and VAT paid by the sectors, not only of cinema distribution, but also of film screening, television programming, but above all of the provision of fixed and mobile telecommunications services. I would like to stress that this measure has a general vision, because it brings together the future and technologies. I am referring therefore to the possibility of having resources from mobile phones, which today needs content, which can be given by cinema, but which will certainly be able to bring back to the cinema itself important sources of funding. Finally, I would like to mention the tax credit, which is not only important for our productions, but above all for attracting foreign ones, notoriously very rich. I remember for everyone that in Rome was filmed "Spectre", the last film about James Bond: that production brought millions of euros to the city, we saw redone some streets and the city cleaned up. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi, for having been the soul of this measure, which I believe is of an overall nature, because it looks at development, but at the same time also at the important tradition of Italian cinema. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u112	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the discipline of cinema, the audiovisual sector and the entertainment sector, which is delegated to the Government for the legislative reform of cultural activities, is absolutely important because it relaunches the film and audiovisual sector in accordance with established principles at international and European level and pays great attention to the value of cultural identities, taking into account the development of global and technological society. The European Union considers audiovisual and cinematographic works to be absolutely central, bearing the values inherent in the cultural varieties, traditions and cultures of the Member States. Cinema and audiovisual media are considered by the European provisions - I quote - fundamental means of artistic expression, cultural training and social communication. The draft law, which - as the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi, said - has benefited from 60 hearings in the Commission of the main players in the system, has a strong educational value and it is on this focus that I would like to focus my attention. The objective that emerges strongly from the text is the enhancement of quality cinema: an opportunity for the training of young people from school. Cinema and audiovisual are therefore understood as an educational opportunity, as an education to the image, as a strengthening of historical, musical, artistic and scientific knowledge; cinema as an education to listening, critical evaluation, the development of analysis and multimedia technological skills, but also as a development (we know how much we need it) of an emotional and participatory sensitivity to the stories of others, of which today we see the need especially among adolescents, as a stimulus to the deepening of sectors, awakening of new interests. There are many essential goals that are well combined with education and the educational world. It is therefore a question of contesting the economic logic, which meets criteria of market sustainability and in fact tends to produce flattening, homogenization of content and products, with the cultural, formative and social one, which instead promotes differentiation, deepening, originality and variety. On 4 February 2016, ministers Giannini and Franceschini signed the Memorandum of Understanding for the promotion of the language of theatre and cinema in the school and that with Law No 107 of 2015 (the good school) joint activities were launched between the two Dicasteries for the promotion of art, the dissemination of knowledge of our cultural heritage and reading. It is therefore a new chapter in the cooperation between MIUR and MIBACT. With the school and the protocol Ciak-Si studia!, which invites students to test themselves as screenwriters, directors and authors, it is not only the school that goes to the cinema, but also the cinema and theater to enter the school. The protocol also provides for the updating of teachers on cinema and the promotion of participation in festivals, film events, which I do not mention all because they are absolutely important. Within the framework of the three-year plan of the training offer (PTOF), which explains the curriculum design, extracurricular and educational, organized by schools in the field of autonomy, using a share of flexibility, can also be given importance to the strengthening of the cinema culture, understood as enjoyment, approach, understanding and interpretation of this world, as provided for by the delegation contained in the aforementioned law no. 107. The adoption of legislation on the promotion and dissemination of humanistic culture and the enhancement of cultural, musical, theatrical and cinematographic heritage and production is imminent. Of the 40 articles in the text under consideration, my attention goes to article 9, which defines the powers of the Ministry, including the development and internationalization of Italian works, the modernization of cinemas, the promotion of image education programs in schools of every order and grade, with the strengthening of skills in audiovisual languages and critical skills, knowledge of cinema and audio visual techniques, through specific training in cinema and audiovisual disciplines also in high training. I very much welcome the fact that the contributions referred to in Article 24 are directed primarily at young people, first and second works, artworks, quality content, and so-called difficult films made with modest financial resources. The development of micro-enterprises and support for start-ups are also planned, with various measures and promotional initiatives, through the creation of festivals, national and international awards. I also recall the activity of internationalization of the sector and of conservation, restoration and use of the film and audiovisual heritage. They will be understood as beneficiaries of the beneficial activities related also to research and experimentation, initiatives in the cinemas and dissemination activities carried out by the associations of cinema culture and the rooms of the ecclesial and religious communities, which carry out a meritorious social function of formation of the public. Of great importance is the introduction in the Commission of a bound quota (not less than 3% of the Fund, equal to about EUR 12 million) to schools of every order and grade, to enhance skills in cinema, production techniques, the dissemination of images, literacy in art and more. These are strategic decisions, which are linked to the recent school reform law n. 107, already mentioned, which involves education in the image and training of teachers, with a view to seeing cinema as a very important educational opportunity. The Commission has also introduced the issue of the distribution of works produced in different languages from Italian in order to strengthen the offer of cinema in the regions where there are linguistic minorities recognized under Law No 482 of 15 December 1999. Finally, I would like to express a great appreciation for the enhancement of the conservation, restoration and use of the film and audiovisual heritage. Starting with the conclusion, I would like to stress that it will be the Ministry that will define the various and specific types of activities allowed and will determine the criteria and methods of granting contributions. We are at the forefront and we must be proud of our highly specialized laboratories in the field of film restoration, such as the Fondazione Cineteca di Bologna and the Cineteca di Milano, which are international reference points. Nor do I want to forget the Cineteca del Friuli in Gemona del Friuli and the university degree course in the discipline of arts, music and entertainment (DAMS) in Gorizia, leader in the field of digitization of reduced and obsolete formats. The restored films and contemporary films treated by the laboratories of the centers of our country are shown at the most important festivals and we must be really proud. These centres will have greater incentives and a fair recognition, with an ad hoc law that really brings us closer to Europe, for an overall view, the enhancement of excellence, the promotion of experimentation, the facilitations for young people and the preservation of our heritage. Finally, I would like to thank Senator Di Giorgi for her outstanding and high-quality work in the Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u114	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u117	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Mr President, I would like to call for the Government's response to Act 3-02833 This is an urgent question under Rule 151 of the Rules of Procedure, addressed to Minister Orlando, who is right in the serious and worrying situation in which the Bari Court finds itself, as reported in an open letter from the same prosecutor, Dr Giuseppe Volpe, on 6 May. That of Dr. Volpe is a veritable letter of complaint, which puts in dramatic evidence the collapse of the district attorney of Bari for lack of administrative staff. It is news of yesterday that, at the same court of Bari, eleven operators have been transferred, between stretchers and doctors of the Red Cross, fruit of the understanding between the Ministry of Justice and the department of the public service, that it aims to displace in the public bodies with deficiencies of staff the staff made redundant of other agencies. This reinforcement, which I merely define as almost exotic, has obviously stirred up the operators of justice, who on the one hand complain that they have sent people who have never performed these functions to the brink and who at the same time express their mortification, because they find themselves sharing their functions with people who have not performed any competitive selection. I would ask you, Mr President, to ensure that the Minister of Justice gives an urgent answer to my question, also because the territory of Bari is increasingly at the centre of a revival of the activities of the mafia clans and it is unthinkable not to guarantee the conditions for the operators of justice to be able to operate well.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u120	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, ApI, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I rise to stress the important problem of information, specifically local televisions, which employ thousands of people, including owners, journalists, technicians, administrative and commercial staff, who are now in danger of disappearing, because in addition to the crisis there is the problem of frequencies, never solved in Italy. All these broadcasters, which represent a bulwark for the pluralism of information and express the highest level of the concept of local subsidiarity, are part of a plan that wants to delete them, as if in some way they were threatening national networks. I would like to stress that this is a reality to be preserved and a value to be preserved, while more and more of its maneuvering spaces are being reduced, year after year. Yet we have had opportunities. Consider the assignments of the frequencies that Italy had in 2009 and 2012, which almost all went to national televisions, while local broadcasters were assigned only frequencies that Italy had the prohibition to use, because they were assigned to other countries. In fact, in the few years of use of digital terrestrial have received hundreds of complaints from neighbouring countries, since almost all have had from six to eight, against the nineteen of Italy. In December 2014 it is inserted in the law of stability the obligation to revoke almost all the frequencies to the local broadcasters of the Regions Friuli, Veneto, Emilia, Marche, Abruzzo, Puglia and Sicily. There has been nothing but a misallocation of frequencies, resulting in poor private and public use and economic waste. At the time Italy had asked for many frequencies, justified by the large presence of local TVs, except then not Give them to him. Now there is a risk of having to pay copious compensation. Countries like Greece have earned 246 million from the auction, which were then invested in welfare, while in Italy nothing has been done. We wonder what the government intends to do, if the RAI fee put into the bill will not arrive the additional 50 million foreseen for the local broadcasters in order to guarantee the activity. Mr President, as a representative of the Alternative for Italy, I will put a question to the Government to defend the plurality of information.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u123	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is essential to mention a long-standing issue. Specifically, in October 2011, following the earthquake that hit the city of L'Aquila in 2009, the INAIL, in an exceptional way, decided to devote part of its savings, 2 billion euros, to investments in the reconstruction of the capital of Abruzzo. And indeed, this has become possible because the contributions received by the National Accident Insurance Institute exceed the benefits paid and the surplus is turned by law to the Treasury, which uses it to balance the public accounts. However, it should be considered that the surplus set aside as a result of the collection of premiums for Eagle did not represent, as explained by the head of the central management, Carlo Gasperini, a resource that could be paid at a loss, as funds that the institution can invest on condition that they generate returns. As an insurance company, the investment must ensure profitability; in the case of INAIL it is 3.1 percent. Therefore, in the case of investments, ownership of the property is acquired and then leased to the user, at a rate of return that is 3,1 per cent compared to the total amount of investments. In this regard, from the journalistic sources, but also from the legislation that has followed on the point, it has been learned of how the activation of these investments is not taken off, because uncertain the bureaucratic process to follow or the presence of an internal management company that, however, clearly has never reached the operating phase or the choice between indirect investments and the direct ones, with the supervision of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and of the Civil Protection on the plans submitted to the outcome of the procedures of contests in question. And again, it has been learned of a long procedure with a view to a call for proposals, expressions of interest, the evaluation of projects by an advisor and, finally, the compatibility analysis carried out by the vigilant ministries concerned. Well, the Government, despite the commitment made in this regard, did not provide to unblock the impasse or to modify the original rule contained in Decree-Law No. 39 of 2009. In fact, just think of the agenda presented at the session of the Chamber 14 September 2011, accepted by the Government, which committed the government to include in a rule of the next issue the forecast of a reminder unblocking of the resources destined by the INAIL to reconstruction in Abruzzo, also through the adoption of procedures in derogation from the current legislation. It is with article 16 of Decree-Law n. 216 of 2011 (converted into Law n. 14 of 2012) that the legislator has allowed the social security institutions to continue, for the year 2012, the investments in Abruzzo provided for by article 14, paragraph 3, of Decree-Law n. 39 of 2009, also in direct form, in compliance with the constraints. In other words, at the time of the facts narrated it was initially established that INAIL could intervene with investments in indirect form. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). I come quickly to the end, unfortunately, and I ask that I be able to deliver the full text of my speech so that it is annexed to the report of today's sitting. The amount allocated to INAIL, amounting to more than 2 billion, is now estimated at EUR 1 57 million. In essence, therefore, as pointed out by Mr Melilla, the sums originally allocated were considerably higher than those represented by the Secretary in his answer to the question put by Mr Melilla himself. I therefore believe that it is completely incomprehensible, as, to date, despite what has been pointed out, it is not possible to resolve this issue by means of a simple legislative amendment that makes it possible for the city of L'Aquila to use the EUR 2 billion initially foreseen or at least the different figure referred to above, of one billion and 57 million, solving the problem of the acceptance of the yield charge or that of the peremption of the above funds. This could also be useful depending on what has happened recently following earthquakes in our territories; the same problem could arise also for the new territories affected and for the funds they also need. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-687.ana.u124	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.54.
