ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 28 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 54-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u7	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I appeal to the Government and also to the rapporteur to ask for their advice in the light of what has emerged in the last three days in the newspapers, where they have expressed themselves as authoritative and qualified representatives of the Jewish world and of the Italian historical culture I would say in a pluralistic way. I refer to the articles that have appeared today on Unity and Republic, which have highlighted that in the draft law our attention is contained issues that would at least require further study. To conclude, I would just like to point out, as an example, that the original text of the Mancino law was about spreading ideas of superiority, and then this Parliament changed that law by replacing the word "dissemination" with the word "propaganda" and in the text under discussion propaganda becomes a crime when there is a real danger of spreading. Let us therefore return to the concept of diffusion that had been modified a few years ago and I do not think that this type of approach has collected many adhesions, indeed, I would say that it has gathered the substantial unanimity of disagreements, which have divided between those who do not ask for any kind of norm that affects the ideas and those (minoritarians) that require rules only on the Holocaust and nothing more. I would therefore like to address the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to find out whether at this point they consider it wise, even for the dignity of Parliament and of parliamentary work (which attentive eyes and acute intelligences read, look and judge), to return to the Commission in order to achieve a measure that is more shared, meditated and even technically written in a more appropriate way to the objectives that are to be achieved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u10	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, unlike those before me, I do not feel that I give too much importance to the newspapers mentioned, except, I say so with great sympathy, to greet Carlo Giovanardi's entry into the ranks of left-wing intellectuals. [[Applause from Senator Formigoni]] I would just like to reconstruct our work. At the afternoon sitting on Tuesday, we held a general debate on the measure before us in which, you will recall, some Members asked to consider whether the draft law should be returned to the Commission. Given the opposition of the representative of the Government and the rapporteur, the Assembly decided not to postpone the measure to the Commission. We have also devoted Wednesday to another subject, and on Thursday morning an amendment was tabled by the President of the Commission, not even formally by the rapporteur or by the Government, which completely rewritten the legal framework. On this was led, Mr Zanda would say, a mini obstructionism by some senator of the opposition. I would just like to ask for your assessment, regardless of the substance of the measure to which Mr Giovanardi referred, of the fact that opposition and majority are here with the same rights and duties; so it does not seem to you that in the face of an amendment - not of the Government and not of the rapporteur but of the President of the Commission - which completely rewrites the law, the opposition has not already the right but I would say the duty to appeal to the Presidency and to the President of the Commission itself to assess the appropriateness of the return to the Commission which had been denied at the previous sitting? As far as the substance is concerned, I would just point out that the speeches in general, all - not many: six or seven - held at Tuesday afternoon's sitting praised the work in the Commission which led to that text and, as you can see, prescinded by the unpleasant and uncomfortable interview of a chamber member accusing the senators in the Commission of having upset the law. I do so because when the Senate deliberates it would be elegant for the House's Justice Commission to have the same respect on our part when our measures are being discussed there. [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u11	Senator Compañera, I remind you that the Presidency had assessed the matter and had set a reasonable deadline for the sub-amendments. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,401/10. Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pending the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 4.42 p.m. and resumed at 4.55 p.m.) I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,401/10, tabled by Senators Palma and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,401/11. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,401/11, tabled by Senators Palma and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,401/12. Mr Russo (PD). We call for the voting of sub-amendments to be carried out simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,401/12, tabled by Senators Baptist and Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,401/13.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u14	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, this seems to me to be a fundamental amendment. It is no coincidence that those outside the Senate know how to read and write also know the respect of the institutions, what has been lacking before, when neither the rapporteur nor the Government have deigned to respond to an objection that is not of Senator Giovanardi, but of civil society, of the director of the Historical Institute of Resistance, of most intellectuals who are part of the Jewish world, of Professor Flores d'Arcais, of Anna Foa and of others who have spoken in the debate. There are many incredible pearls of this bill and amendment 1,401, which will make it much worse. I remember we're in the mood here. We're in Checco Zalone, like I said before. A deepening of the amendment that we want to subemendare has led to the discovery that the spread of ideas was affected in the Mancino law. Then there were great discussions in the Senate and the House. I went to see the acts: the Minister of Justice intervened at that time and Mr Buemi, who was there at that time, intervened. Since the term "diffusion" was not precise, the term "propaganda" passed; also Senator Finocchiaro Fidelbo will remember it, because it intervened in that debate. With this amendment by the rapporteur, we now return to the criminality of propaganda, when there is a real danger of spreading. So let's go back to the dissemination of the original text of the Mancino law, after this term had been replaced by the term "propaganda". Now propaganda is the concrete danger of spreading the article, the book or the idea that is being testified. If you will excuse me, the speaker wrote: But what are you writing? We're making laws. We're not kidding. It has also been discovered - except that someone authoritatively denies it - that with this rule we will punish thousands of cases of negationism. I say this to my colleagues with whom we have fought a thousand battles concerning the foibe and the events of the eastern border from 1943 to 1945. I have always been a friend of the Julian-Dalmatian exiles and also of those who have remained on the other side of what was once the border of the former Yugoslavia. How many times have we been passionate with them and have also tried, in front of a Slovenian historiography (the Kersevan, for example) that categorically denies that there have been genocide (compared to the Italian component), crimes against humanity and perhaps even war crimes. But I have always said, with reference to the most outrageous sectors of that world, that the Slovenian or Croatian historiography that denies the foibes does not fight it by denouncing and sending to jail the Kersevan, who has every right to write its historical interpretation of that period and that it must be refuted with certain data. When, always to deepen these issues, I went to see the behaviour of Italians in Slovenia in the two years in which the province of Ljubljana was annexed, it seemed to me exaggerated the figure, given by Slav, of 10 percent of the population shot, brought to the concentration camps or that anyway suffered the destruction of the house; I turned then to the historical office of the Army. Well, the historical office of the Italian Army has confirmed that fact to me: it is a true fact. I am very sorry that the Italians were guilty in those years (from 1941 to 1943) of these terrifying actions in Slovenia, but it is a historical truth; as is a historical truth that of the Foibe, that terrible ethnic or ideological cleansing that was done beyond the border. But it is the historiographic debate and the conscience of young people that emerges from the knowledge of these facts, which must intuit this negationism. In this bill we condemn to severe penalties those who deny these facts but not those who exalt them; there is no aggression for exaltation. I cannot say that a certain fact has not happened or, if it has happened, that it has justifications, as in the case of the colonial wars in Italy or those for the conquest of the United States or of the Balkan wars, which I recalled last time, with the responsibilities between the various ethnic groups that have fought among themselves; but if I say that they have done well to carry out certain misdeeds, war crimes or genocides, I do not have the aggression. Someone please explain to me how it will be done on May 10, when all Italian historians will be in Milan discussing negationism: there will be the flower of Italian historiography that will compare with the things we have written in this text. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you: what is the reason for supporting unsustainable things? But why go on with a total nonsense? The explanation could have been that it is the Jewish world asks us; but the most authoritative voices of culture and historiography have intervened on that side to say that they don't want to know about this stuff! Even to the question 'Why have you not spoken yet?', they answered: 'Why are we exhausted: we have come to Parliament, to the Senate, we have said this and motivated it in all possible and imaginable seats'. Excuse me, but what's the comparison for? What good is it to call civil society, historians, intellectuals, to hear their opinion and then to do exactly the opposite of what they ask us to do, saying that this is how we protect them? But how do we protect them? So we damage them, watering down the Holocaust in other thousands of cases that have nothing to do with it! The Holocaust is the only time in the history of humanity in which on an industrial scale the annihilation of an entire people has been attempted. And if the war had not ended as it ended, that design would probably have been accomplished; someone, even today, as I speak, wants to carry it out. I read to you the other day the statements of sovereign states that not only deny that there has ever been a Holocaust, but they promise to put Israel on the charge of genocide and war crimes. In the face of these circumstances, I do not know how the rapporteur and the representative of the Government can justify the contrary opinion on an amendment which, in addition to the denial, affects the exaltation of these facts. The fact that this does not alter the negative judgment on the whole frame of the measure is certain, but at least we would not incur censorship, at least on the part of those who, on the basis of logic, rightly ask us to take account of what we are doing in Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u15	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,401/13, tabled by Senator Giovanardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u16	We greet the students and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Giovanni Palatucci" in Montella, in the province of Avellino. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u17	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,401/14.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u20	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, sub-amendment 1,401/14, which I tabled, leaving the rest of the amendment intact, which would constitute the entire bill, limits the effectiveness of the measure to the only incident or historical phenomenon of the Shoah and this limitation is defined by citing the laws that refer to it. We are aware of the troubled course of this measure: approved in a way in the Senate, then radically changed by the House, again amended in the Commission and, once again, changed - now - in the Chamber with an amendment. This amendment has changed its character considerably both in relation to what the Commission approved a few days ago and in relation to what the Senate had approved at first reading. I would like to know, but I fear that this request will remain suspended in nothing, because it is thought to express an opinion contrary to this amendment, and what are the other historical facts that it is appropriate to include in this measure, which has all the delicacy to be on the line - in my opinion it may be beyond this - of the crime of opinion; I wonder how to consider the fact that we have introduced it as aggravating, so there is no crime if there is only opinion, even if this opinion - let us call it that, but in this case it is a monstrosity - is used in the context of incitement to hatred or violence. But I would like to know what are the other episodes that you want to include, which could still be acceptable at the beginning, when the provision was structured in a certain way, but now the provision comes to be structured in another way, so I would like to know why. I believe that the House would have the right to know that, since we are, if not for the sub-amendments, with only one vote to decide on the whole measure. Everything that has been said to support the opportunity to introduce this aggravating of the denial of the Shoah is worth - and I think it has always been said - for the very special aspect that has this horrible historical fact. Other facts, other war crimes, included in the very broad definition of Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Treaty establishing the International Court and whatever else, do not meet these criteria, and there we really risk going not towards a crime of opinion, but towards an ingessation, a stigmatization of the historical deepening on so many facts that can go up to completely marginal episodes from the historical point of view. Let's be clear, a war crime is always a horrible thing, but such a sanction was justified by the unique and exceptional fact, in its brutality and horror, such as the extermination of the Jews by the Nazi regime and its allies regimes, which is what my amendment would bring back the object of the entire bill. It seems appropriate, if only to understand why: you can also vote against my amendment for a good reason, but it would be interesting to know what it is.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u23	Comrade (CoR). Madam President, my statement is in favour of the text proposed by Mr Malan. But how and how much he, I would listen with great respect by the Commission and the Government the reasons that have led not to accept that point of view as much historiographical as of common sense. What point of view? The uniqueness and ir sincerity of the Shoah tragedy. If some of our colleagues say 'Yes', that has been the case in the past, but we now feel differently, and that is why we extend the spectrum of the norm to other crimes, then I believe that Parliament has every right to know why. Rejecting the Senator Malan's amendment without any reason is really disturbing, as was disturbing in the previous sub-amendment - I apologise for not having pointed out in time my request to intervene - when, at the time of denial, we simply wanted to add exaltation to it. None of us in the opposition has denied the government of inconvenience or inelegance for the visit to Tehran, where the Iranian government does the exaltation of the Shoah, the right to destroy the little satan, the State of Israel, its own business card. Our government visited; it led a large delegation of Confindustria and ENI. Les affaires sont les affaires, and more. Precisely for this reason it would have been at least decent that, twenty days later, an opposition that had not made any act of jackalling was said because denial is not good, while exaltation is good. So, in the face of Senator Malan's question, tell me something else, vote against, but tell me. In a Parliamentary Assembly it is the least to be expected from the Government of a country of ancient democracy, of a country that is not accustomed to anti-Semitism, of a country that is honored to have contacts and friendship with the Jewish State. It would be a bad page if Malan's amendment were rejected in the silence of the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u26	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, a few years ago, after a thorough debate in Parliament, we decided that one day a year in January was devoted to the memory of the Holocaust and the Jewish people. And a great debate was held on the opportunity to dedicate that same day to the memory of other tragic events in history. For years, with interventions by the Head of State and the highest authorities of the Chamber and Senate and with great participation in schools on that day we remember the Holocaust because Parliament made a precise political, moral, cultural and historical choice. Now, the Italian Parliament, a few years later, totally overturns that choice and, when we talk about negationism, waters down that thing, unique in the history of humanity, confusing it with thousands and thousands of cases. Since I speak more for those who listen to us outside this Chamber - and I assure you that there are so many people who are listening to us and, perhaps, with greater attention than what this House reserves for these matters - I say that I am very impressed to know that those who vote on this law place the extermination of 6 million people on the same level - for example - with a ruppet that in a war action destroys two private properties. If you read in Article 8 the list of war crimes, you will find that war crime, which is denied existence on the basis of a concept of superiority - what the Arabs charge the Jews - is exactly equal. I think the anti-Semites of all the world will toast. This turn of the Italian Parliament is truly incomprehensible, and it is even more so when we change the cards on such important and passionate issues without spending a word in defense of this abomination; because it is an abomination, if we accept scandalous and shameful references to what has matured in the history of the peoples and of this Parliament, as regards the Holocaust, now equal to any other painful and serious fact. Hitting a private property or tearing down houses is surely unbecoming, as are certainly to be punished all other acts, such as murder or rape, which are serious and must be condemned in court and punished. But can you put them on equal footing with the Holocaust by law? Can a law be passed that equals these cases? Once again, we thank Mr Malan for having tabled this amendment. It may well be that we will be succumbed to this moment of madness, but the responsibility is not ours, but our colleagues who suffer such infamy. To reject this amendment means, in fact, to deny that the Holocaust has been a unique page in the history of humanity, as well as the testimony of those who came to the Commission to tell us that, if something has to be done, it is only done with regard to the Holocaust. What we are about to achieve is an important vote. But for those who reject this amendment, it is also a vow of great responsibility in the face of their conscience and even in the face of history.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u27	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,401/14, tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,401/15.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u30	MUSSINI (Mixed). Madam President, first of all I would like to ask the authors whether I can endorse this amending proposal, which, in the form of the sub-amendment, takes up an issue which would otherwise have fallen into the void and on which I have had the opportunity to reflect in the Commission, which I would like to put to the House quickly with this explanation of vote. The text of the amendment proposes that the following words be inserted: The purpose of this amendment is to return a minimum of meaning to Article 1, which - I would remind the House as a whole - in order to determine whether or not the crime of negationism has been committed, takes into account Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the articles of association of the International Criminal Court, i.e. the policy lines and not the events established. I would like to give an example, in order to make this House better aware of the risk we are taking. Article 6 of the Statute, entitled 'Crime of genocide', states that: For the purposes of this Statute, a crime of genocide is defined as one of the following acts committed in order to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group, namely: (...) and from here on a series of acts are listed, including killing members of the group and causing serious injury to the physical or mental integrity of persons belonging to the group. None of this, however, can give us the consistency of a historical evidence of a fact that corresponds to this. Therefore, criteria are used that describe the competences of the inaugural International Criminal Court, defined by the statute, to mark a margin around events, compared to which, however, there is no trial path, a historical path or a verification. I want to give you a practical example of the events that have taken place in the Western Sahara. Suppose someone, perhaps a public figure, at a public meeting is asked if he does not believe that the Kingdom of Morocco has committed crimes of genocide. And in this regard, I want to remind you that there is literature and there is everything on the Internet and there are photos. But there is no sentence, and that is true. Let us assume, however, that this person does not feel that he should say that there has been genocide, but rather that there has been no genocide. What is this? Is it negationism? On the basis of what will a judge be able, with such a structure, to decide on an opinion expressed in any case public context? However, given the change made with the amendment tabled by Senator D'Ascola, even the public context is no longer a dividing line. A statement of this kind would legitimately draw on the subject that makes it an accusation of negationism and could be brought before the judge. The next step is the following. On the basis of what could the judge determine whether the person who gives a ruling, legitimately or illegitimately, has said yes or no to the request to express his views in relation to the fact that Morocco, in a series of acts, has committed genocide or not? I'd like us to question this. And I'm talking about events that already exist and are ready to create problems, reflections and discussions. Of course, in this draft law we are going to put a weight on what is anyway discussion, research, the very need to bring proof for what is declared or refused to admit. I understand that the problem arises - unfortunately very often - from the stupidity of those who deny the evidence of certain historical realities. Unfortunately, however, since ignorance and stupidity are not a crime, I do not think it is possible to entrust to a judge the possibility of deciding without a determination of the facts with a judgment passed in court, and by an international court and not by any one. In any country with recognized sovereignty, in fact, trials could be celebrated for a purely political purpose, in order to obtain a sentence that gags the discussion and prevents research. So I am not only asking you to subscribe to this amendment - I am grateful to those colleagues who have survived what, for me, is not a detail of the law, but the only way to make this law make any sense - but I really invite everyone to reflect. We take on a great responsibility not only to the facts of the past, which in some way today we want to armor with respect to a denial, but also to the future, to research, with respect to what can happen and about which one can or cannot speak. I would also like to say that, if the changes are to remain as they have been designed, if this amendment is not accepted and the correction we tabled at first reading is deleted, I do not think I can vote in favour of this draft law. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u33	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, since the previous request for an explanation to the contrary opinion did not have an answer, I assume that it has been said no because this text has been agreed with the other branch of Parliament, and in particular with the President of the Commission Justice who has not really done a good service on it, in my opinion. In any case, although this agreement is abnormal, this could also be explained if this explanation was not the mere convenience of the majority to have an agreement, provided that it is. But this agreement is based on nothing, on a compromise of words, and not even on concepts. And the compromise of concepts may be fine, but it is a compromise of speech and form so low that no one thinks they are defending it. And if the only defence is that there is an agreement on this - political is a big word - that we define procedural and party, then I would say that there really is no justification. Sub-amendment 1,401/15, which we are now dealing with, signed by Senators De Petris and De Cristofaro, is perhaps the most reasonable of all, and I am sorry I did not submit it. Do you want to introduce the long list of war crimes? To get an idea of this list, just take a look at Senator Giovanardi's sub-amendment 1,401/17, which lists some of them. I think this is already inappropriate, but at least, with the amendment signed by Senators De Petris and De Cristofaro, it would be clear that there is an abuse in the event that there is a denial of the reality of certain facts recognized and established, with a judgment passed in court, by an international court. Otherwise, we go further than Senator Mussini has just said. And in this way we refer at least to cases that have some notoriety. Otherwise, we risk considering episodes, perhaps unknown to the most and whose reality is still to be established, which fall, from the point of view of the case (not from the point of view of reality), in the endless list referred to in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court mentioned in the text, although they have never been - I repeat - established. In this way we have an enormous discretion of the judge, and then we cannot complain if it extends its scope and is obliged to give a response. The judge can give the sentence he wants, but he must give it, he cannot abstain. You can't say "we'll see you again." While the problem of how difficult it is to distinguish the incitement to hatred from the simple denial of certain particularly hateful acts remains unresolved, with the norm proposed by President D'Ascola it may even happen that, in front of the news given by the newspapers of a massacre or a confiscation of property, of the destruction of houses or of other similar fact, someone can say that it is not true and someone else can denounce it. The judge will then find himself in the situation of having to decide who to be right, and of course years later, when perhaps the episode has resolved, the truth has been established in one way or another (but not at the judicial level), or perhaps it has not been established, the judge will have to deal with such cases extremely limited in their scope, or in any case of which there is not the slightest certainty neither historical nor judicial. And historical certainty - here we should talk about judicial certainty - is already something. Faced with the news, perhaps launched by the propaganda of a certain part, the destruction of houses or the confiscation of property, or even the killing of three civilians, deliberately caused by bombings made without criteria or even with the criterion of deliberately hitting civilians not involved in the fighting, we risk having sentences. So, because again this time we would not have an explanation - and we have already had the opposite opinion - again the explanation clearly does not stand. And, therefore, I hope that it does not change the law, indeed, I hope that it will only become more "readable" (almost a play of words), so as to be applicable with a little'sense. The cases do not change, they remain the same. The same penalties and the same types of crime remain, which are included. But at least it must be established that the crime has been established by a court judgment, in order not to enter into the most unbridled discretion that, first, degrades the fundamental understanding of this bill and, then, throws in the most complete uncertainty both the judge who must be called to judge, and all those who intend to make statements of a historical, political, historical or even partisan propaganda, which is legitimate. That is why it would be good if, apart from the opinions, we voted in favour of Amendment No 1,401/15. If anything, he will then call the Chamber's Justice Commission to explain to her that, when it comes to laws, we should also refer to judgments and not vague ideas. If you need to, we'll tell you and we can send a delegation.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u36	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, it does not take a lot of words to point out how we have come to the point that highlights the absurdity of this bill. This absurdity lies in the fact that we want to bring a situation which concerns culture and education into the classrooms of the courts, rather than those of schools and universities. That's the problem. So we are faced with a paradox: if we leave the text like this, we give discretion to the judges who - alas - will have some problem using it, so much so that then someone will come here and complain that the magistrates apply the laws that we have approved. If we want to avoid this, we must arrive at establishing state truths, exactly as the amendment before us demands, and on the basis of them, perhaps in retrospect, we also send Émile Zola to jail, because with this law he would have gone there. I say stop, because frankly I do not believe that anyone who is said to be liberal can accept either. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u39	Comrade (CoR). Madam President, I shall make a very brief explanation of vote. The CoR Group will vote against Amendment No 1,401/15 for reasons of excessive discretion, which Mr Malan, and Mr Quagliariello, put forward with great intelligence, and for those of freedom, just before. We cannot miss the opportunity to point out that that role of accompanying legislation, which the Government should have played through the Institute of Opinions and Motivations, is completely absent from this debate. And this authorizes the worst thoughts and does not honor the legislative work we are doing on a decidedly improper scale.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u40	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,401/15, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,401/16.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u43	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, I agree with the views of Senators Compañera and Quagliariello, although I must acknowledge that Senator Malan has tried to reduce the damage which, however, in the framework of this measure, is worsening. As a famous Venetian proverb says, "it is the weight el tacon of the buso," and it is worse because the idea that a historical truth hangs from the judgment of a court is truly and absolutely pilgrim. In view of the time gone, when there were the Supreme Courts of Cassation, when Émile Zola defended a person condemned with infamy in his country, on the basis of our current considerations, he would have ended up in prison himself, because he could not have started the review process. If we want to talk about even more tragic events, all the best Polish youth, all the intelligence of the Polish officers was exterminated in the forest of Katyn and this crime was charged to the Nazis. Not that the Nazis did not make them of all colors, but this genocide of an entire generation, which had been carried out on the orders of Stalin, could not be charged to them. The courts of the time had established the guilt of the Nazi regime and, therefore, had wronged guilty. Well, once an international court establishes a verdict, at that point we must take it, in historical research, as cast gold or, like all human things, can it be subject to revisitation? And it is even worse - I think that is why the amendment tabled by Senators Cappelletti and Buccarella did not lapse - when it comes to an international justice body. We are not talking about courts, we are talking about some fanciful UN-related bodies. I have mentioned one that has been presided over by Libya for years, which was the one in charge of protecting human rights when Gaddafi was still there. Then, if one of these international bodies were to judge - for example - Israel on the basis of the considerations that have been made here several times, we would be paralyzed because no one could ever question the judgment of a magistrate again. But a magistrate, although good and if he has done his work conscientiously, counts much less than the freedom of research, historical analysis and the freedom to verify whether the facts, based on the documentation from which he made his decisions, then hold to the critical intelligence of a historian who goes to discover - as can rightly happen - his truth. I remember, once again, that the absolute truth about the facts of history belongs to regimes. It is the regimes - communists, Nazis and fascists - that have the state truth. There is no state truth about thousands and thousands of cases such as that which you, in this case, also endorse without the judgments of the courts when you prevent thousands of cases connected with war crimes from being verified and deepened. That is why we are voting against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u44	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,401/16, tabled by Senators Cappelletti and Buccarella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,401/17.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u47	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, we are now at the last of the sub-amendments, after which the kangaroo rule will be voted and, therefore, all the other amendments tabled to the text will lapse. And I would remind the House that this is not the text voted by the Commission, because what we are discussing is not the result of months of work by the Commission, voted almost unanimously by the Senate a few months ago. What we are discussing here is a 'kangaroo' text presented by the President of the Commission in the night and, therefore, we retrace the splendour of the kangaroo of civil unions and the kangaroo of street murder. In this case, fortunately, trust has not been placed but, once again, the Government is returning to the House of the Commission throughout the legislative process of the measure; it assists passive unanimity reached in the Commission, for example on the term 'publicly'; then it takes back in the night the previous unanimous decision of the Senate and the Commission and, for the first time in the House, says it is in favour of the new text, which is not the one approved in the Commission and by the senators themselves in the previous passage. Having said that, at least it remains in the proceedings of the Senate, which are public and consultable, the type of case to which this branch of Parliament, in the latest version, intends to apply negationism, or providing a sentence of up to six years in prison - if I am not mistaken - for those who propaganda ideas based on superiority, and so on. It is good to know: on the one hand there is the Holocaust and, on the other, there is destruction and appropriation of goods, not justified by military needs and carried out on a large scale illegally and arbitrarily; on the other hand there is the Holocaust and, on the other hand, there is deportation, transfer and illegal detention; on the one hand there is the Holocaust and, on the other, there is the deliberately directing attacks against civilian populations as such or against civilians who do not take direct part in hostilities. On the one hand there is the Holocaust and, on the other hand, there is the deliberate launch of attacks in the knowledge that the same will result in the loss of human lives among the civilian population and injuries to civilians or damage to civil property or widespread, long-lasting and serious damage to the natural environment - the Holocaust as well as damage to the natural environment! - that they are manifestly excessive in relation to all the concrete and direct military benefits envisaged. There is the Holocaust on the one hand and, on the other hand, there is the direct or indirect transfer, by the occupying power, of part of its civilian population in the occupied territories or the deportation or transfer of all or part of the population of the occupied territory within or outside that territory. Again, there is the Holocaust on the one hand and, on the other, there is the destruction or confiscation of the enemy's property, unless confiscation or destruction are imperatively required by the needs of war. On the one hand, there is the Holocaust and, on the other, there is a violation of the dignity of people, especially by using humiliating and degrading treatments. Finally, there is the provision of a different displacement of the civilian population for reasons related to the conflict, if it is not required by the security of the civilians involved or unavoidable military reasons. Colleagues, we are talking about 6 million people deported to the extermination camps and with Article 8 - you have confirmed that it must be part of the denial measure together with the Holocaust - all these cases are hit with the penalty of imprisonment up to six years if someone supports or does propaganda with respect to those who put them in place, being accused - as I have shown - of having done so for ethnic or racial reasons (I am always referring to Israel). I wonder now how we can put the Holocaust and these cases on the same footing, how we can vote on such a rule. At that time, 100, 200, 300 were not excluded, namely war crimes or crimes against humanity, but at least these exemplifications. And why do I say examples? And I turn more and more to those outside than to this House. I say this because with this measure the killing of 6 million people - men, women and children - is equaled with the damage to things or the natural environment. Do you realize what this Parliament is voting for?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u48	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,401/17, tabled by Senator Giovanardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Colleagues, please pay particular attention to what I am about to say. We shall now vote on Amendment No 1,401 which, if adopted, precludes all other amendments. I would remind you that this amendment, tabled by Senator D'Ascola, is entirely a substitute for the single article of the text proposed by the Commission, and that the rapporteur and the representative of the Government gave a favourable opinion. Consequently - for this reason I request your attention - the final explanations of vote will not be made after this vote. I say this clearly, because there are already members who speak for an explanation of vote on this amendment. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,401.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u51	D'ASCOLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would like to thank Vice-Presidents Gasparri and Calderoli who, having referred to paragraph 5 of Rule 100, have made possible a debate which has highlighted the truth. What is the first point from which it is necessary to start? I would like to draw the attention of the senators, at least those concerned, because the debate has been attended by speeches by colleagues who have spoken without even having read the amendment and the text that we must approve. The first point of departure concerns the accusation that the text of the draft law has even been amended in full, which would be resolved in the amendment I signed. I repeat: those who supported this did not have the pleasure, nor did they feel the need to read the amendment and not even the rule on which it affects. I then draw the senators' attention to the text of Article 1 of the bill (page 3, left column), but I am well aware that the truth is not of interest to those who have spoken about things that are not even contained in the text. In fact, reading the text of the provision it is known that the adverb was included by the Senate only in article 1 of the so-called Mancino-Violante law of 1975. Article 1 makes no reference to negationism, but merely punishes incitement to discrimination, i.e. incitement, propaganda and incitement to violence in a completely generalist way. Therefore, who said that the elimination of the adverb would lead to an expansion of the application of the text that interests us (which is actually Article 3-a), did not even read the text on which the amendment affects. Article 3-a, which has always been the only one devoted to the subject of negationism - and, therefore, not Article 1 of the so-called Mancino-Violante law) - contained in the text approved by the Senate, as well as in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the public adjective as an attribute of noun propaganda, incitement and incitement. The amendment to my amendment consisted in replacing the word "public" with the much more evolved and constitutionally oriented expression: "in order to create a real danger of spreading." Why do I say that this expression is much more evolved and constitutionally oriented? In place of the adjective 'public' - who knows the penal code knows that the first resource that can be used in these cases is to use expressions specific to the tradition of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, while compared to the public we have to compare on reality instead of talking about things that make no sense - this expression replaces the presumption of dangerousness of an expression pronounced in public a 'concrete danger of diffusion'. Therefore, there is an increase in the guarantee rate, because some may speak in public in a context in which the danger of dissemination is excluded, but this variant requires that the danger be established by the court. The danger of spreading constitutes a real danger which the judge must ascertain. The expression used, much more evolved than that easily imaginable of the expression that condenses into the adjective "public" allows today, with the enemy at the gates - I mean terrorism - to punish conducts that would escape a criminality centered on the adjective "public." Just on the evening of the debate that preceded the session of the Assembly the news news gave news of incitements to be exploded with belts padded with explosives that, using the web, some communicated to others. These expressions have resulted in a judicial police operation which has benefited precisely from the absence of the adjective "public" and the adverb "publicly" which is contained in Article 1 of the Mancino-Violante law. This means that, in a context of this kind, the elimination of the adverb "publicly," which had been inserted by the Senate, responds to a need for the protection of the community, which is paradoxical has not been appreciated in this debate. We may have punished certain conducts and carried out investigative activities because this Mancino-Violante law, which is the Internal Terrorism Act of 1975, eliminating the term "public," has allowed to strike conducts that no one can seriously say are carried out in public. Indeed, when certain people incite violence, murder, discrimination and racial hatred through telematic means, they certainly do not do so publicly. And then it is a paradox that the Senate, indeed part of the Senate, is insensitive to these demands of protection of our society, in many ways contradictory then loudly trumpeted when these manifestations only serve to show that one is in some way interested in protecting national security. If what I say is true - and it is true, only if we read the page of the bill that we are approving, where we compare the text of the Senate and the text of the House - and if this comparison is enriched by the reading of my amendment, we understand that in the matter of negationism this text is only more evolved, for that expression I have quoted, than the text fired by the Senate, from which it does not differ in any way. I am frankly surprised and I would like a few people to invite me to a conference at which to prove otherwise (it would be really funny). This text stands out for having eliminated that "publicly" which I realize, in a context of social tranquility, in a context of absence of danger of terrorism, could also be introduced, but which, at such a time, would be manifested of grave irresponsibility and absolute indifference towards national interests to think that it can eliminate. Then, since the text we propose differs in nothing, except for the use of a more evolved expression, constitutionally oriented, capable of striking conducts that will never qualify as public, the criticisms made to this text are the same that can move to the text that has always been fired by the Senate. Those who spoke in criticism of this text criticized themselves. It is something frankly surprising that some people rise up to criticize a text that is totally identical to their own, if not more evolved for the part I have said. It is also identical in that part - and here I go to a conclusion that accelerates a path of argument that could have been longer, but that would have tired, after so many useless things that have been said - in which it is said that incitement, propaganda and incitement are punished on condition that they are based on negationism. This is something we cannot neglect to consider, not only on the side of its perfect identity to the Senate text. Anyone who has the text of the bill may or may not consult it, rather than talking about things that do not exist in the linguistic structure of my amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. D'ASCOLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). I shall conclude, Madam President. This expression is the most significant on the most important side, the one mentioned only by some intervention. In short, does this text limit the scientific and cultural debate? No (the answer is categorical), because in this case negationism is not punished, but incitement to delinquere and to commit serious crimes that profit and rely on negationism. [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u52	Senator Giovanardi, please. Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u53	D'ASCOLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). It would be like saying - and I apologise publicly for this cruel expression in its verbal extremism, but which serves as a concrete example of what is being punished - "Kill the Jewish people because the Shoah invented them." This would be carried out in the perimeter of criminality: incitement to criminality based on the denial of the Shoah. But if we do not incite criminals, any form of denial, of historical, political and cultural criticism, is not at all attackable by this provision. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u56	Comrade (CoR). Madam President, I actually signed up to speak on behalf of the Group in the final explanation of vote on the whole bill, which, as you rightly pointed out, cannot take place. This - with all the attention and respect for the arguments heard by President D'Ascola - means that the amending scope of the text that we are voting on is far less marginal than it seems to him. However, even if we want to ignore the possibility or not of the term "publicly", even if we want to ignore the presence of the adverb "publicly" already in Article 1 of the Mancino-Violante law, Senator D'Ascola can very well reproach us for having intervened without having fully read and evaluated the amending scope of his amendment (maybe), but, my colleague D'Ascola, what is wrong with it? That is parliamentaryism! In Parliament we have the right to disagree, to think differently. This is not my case, because (I assure you) in the name of the corporate freedom of historiography, at first reading I too, like my colleague Gotor, had voted against this bill. But the point is another: the reason is methodical. Majority and opposition are on the same level; there can be no cunning allowed to the majority just because it is majority. When we had the general discussion on the draft law, without any mention by the President of the Commission, all the speeches praised the use of the term "publicly" and the work of the Commission. Why, then, include an amendment that even leads us not to be able to express ourselves, as a Senate, in the final vote on the bill? It doesn't make sense. There are cases where the opposition deserves respect. Senator D'Ascola, whose arguments I have the greatest scientific, academic and logical respect, but not just as parliamentary (because he did not tell us that the amendment was not delegated to the Government, that he was not delegated to the rapporteur, and that he was attributed as President of the Commission), allows us, that we never believed that the suspicion was the antechamber of truth, to think that this happened because on the "Corriere della Sera" the day before there was a gloomy interview of the President of the Justice Commission of the Chamber, who also had the triviality to name a colleague, Senator Caliendo, who would have deserved the utmost solidarity both of the President of the Commission and of the President of the Senate. And why did the President of the Senate Justice Commission have the task of chasing yet another mediation between the House and the Senate? Moreover, Mr President, all of this has had consequences in our work. I will not be able to give an explanation of vote on behalf of our Group on this draft law. We spoke in this House, with a speech by Mr Liuzzi, in favour of this regulation. And I have too much respect for Mr Liuzzi and I have too much disgust and contempt for negationism. Terrorism has nothing to do with it, we are not confusing: we have fought the terrorism of the Red Brigades while respecting freedom of opinion. If we have slipped on the line - Malan would say - of the crime of opinion, it is precisely because we have introduced these improper assessments, that I would not have listened to about a bill like this, about terrorism, effective or not are the assessments on the enemy at the door, as I think Senator D'Ascola said. For this very reason, our vote, which would have been against the amendment and abstention on the measure, becomes only abstention at this point, taking advantage of the cleverness that makes it possible to equate abstention in the Senate with a vote against. We are very sorry about what happened. If an inscription is possible, when an opposition insists, not to horas, to report the case to the Board for the Rules of Procedure (the Senators Quagliariello and Giovanardi asked for it Thursday morning), it is bitter to hear on Tuesday that the request has not been received or that it has already been evaluated, when we admitted the sub-amendments Thursday morning at 11 o'clock. This is not a sign of respect, not of the opposition, but of the work of the Assembly. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u59	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I regret that the debate in this House has not been able to open a real debate on the Government's intention and the majority, without taking away the value of the President of the Commission's justice and the correctness of its behaviour. It was intended to include an amendment which would replace the whole measure, thus frustrating hours of discussion and discussion in the Commission on the subject of justice. Hours of discussion which, among other things, led the Commission to decide almost unanimously on an amendment to the so-called Mancino law. We, as a Group of the North League, have been urging this change for a long time, because the Mancino law is, in our opinion, one of the regiments of a regulation belonging to the Twenty-Year period, which prevents opinions from being expressed, however harsh and unpleasant they may be. It is a rule easily exploitable and usable for purposes other than those which the legislator intended at the time of its adoption. The amendment was prepared and shared by the Commission and provided for the term "publicly" in all the facts which represented and constituted the conduct referred to in Article 3 of Law No 654 of 1975. A completely replacement amendment was then found to be a surprise in this House. And only by the grace of the President of the Senate pro tempore was the opportunity to propose sub-amendments. And that is the only way to open up a debate, which should have been a useful debate in the Commission on justice, because in this House, unfortunately, I come to dominate political positions. In the Commission we can really discuss the content of the text, as has been done. Therefore, it is also embarrassing to find ourselves today with a measure such as the one we are debating and which we are called to vote on, and I do not hide it. To speak, in fact, of the crime of negationism, (beyond the fact that all the "isms" always represent ideologies, and that the latter have times) could actually lead to talk about a problem that is about denying or not that criminal facts have occurred in history; but this did not have to turn into a debate that involves a thought shared by all about dramatic and disastrous events that have tainted humanity and that go under the name of Holocaust. We do not want the decision and the vote we will make on the measure to alter or alter our thinking on the Shoah. It is certainly a feeling of serious and certainly repudiation, which we feel against all war crimes. Unfortunately, humanity has not only been tainted with the Holocaust, but there have also been other episodes that have unfortunately characterized mankind, even in a history not so far away. We remember, in particular, also the foibes, of which only recently the memory was born. For years it had been hidden in the sand because it was thought that recognizing a certain type of crime could be linked to political profiles. It is for this reason that we doubt that, within a criminal code, a criminal offence such as that concerning the denial of crimes is to be considered as a criminal offence. Foibes are an example of this: for years this crime has been denied. But why has existence been denied? Also for political matters. Only the evolution of time and a new opening on the part of historians who have tried to say that historical research must not be political, must not have influences or inclinations, which may be right or left or of any color, have allowed to go beyond. We believe that history must have the widest freedom of study and unfortunately the study of history can come to discuss the existence or not of certain episodes and events. The contributions made by eminent scholars in the hearings merely confirm this. In the last few days there is talk of something else in the newspapers, but let us not forget the clamour that had arisen around this measure. It is perhaps too easy to think of voting on it today without creating a great mess, but remember the debate that has arisen between historians and scholars who said to be careful to lay down standards such as this. Historical research cannot go to a court of law. Maybe negationism can be a lie and it is, sometimes, but it certainly can't be a crime in itself. Perhaps we also have the freedom to think about evil, a freedom that must belong to all, even if it is sad to say. This is what the scholars heard at the hearing said and we want to remember it here: let us not forget and do not think that doing legislators, as we are doing, is just an emotional matter, on the basis of the news appearing in the newspapers. We really must think that the rules adopted here are not only valid for the time of the elections, and that they should be worth the time of a generation. What we approve of, on the other hand, sometimes only pursues the debates in the streets. Therefore, as a Group of the North League, although we agree on the substance of the intention to defend the principle that war crimes should never exist again, we want to do an action that considers what Professor Luzzatto said at the hearing, according to which, probably, predicting the crime of negationism there is perhaps the perverse belief that the problem is solved. In fact, the problem of the denial of a war crime, with the intention of discriminating and creating beliefs, is overcome by culture and by the true study of history. It is, I repeat, surpassed by culture and not by the prediction of a crime. For this reason, therefore, the Group of the North League confirms its abstention vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u62	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, if tomorrow we are going to re-read the debate on this measure, it will be difficult for anyone to remain disoriented, because frankly we have seen two excesses. What was "on the air" last week was presented as a residual compromise solution, a compromise on compromise, and this was even done by the government's benches. Today, in the final declaration, or in the "surrogate" of final explanation of vote, since we have repealed the final declarations, President D'Ascola - who knows what the esteem and friendship that I bring to him - sincerely seemed to me to be "shooting birds with kalashnikov", highlighting even the dangers of international terrorism to justify the amendment that we are voting on. Madam President, the compromise is the noblest act in politics, provided that the object is taken, because otherwise it risks creating dangerous fibrillations, such as those we have witnessed, with a bureaucratic reflection on the one hand and the elevation of the tones and the expansion of the object itself on the other. It is certainly compelling, from the criminal point of view, the explanation that has been brought to us here on the reason why the adverb is publicly lacking. I must say, however, as an integral opponent of this law - where there is a smell of crime of opinion it is in fact good to distance oneself - that the norm, in addition to having a criminal dimension, also has a common sense dimension and it is difficult to think that the common sense believes that advertising or incitement can take place without or regard to the real danger of spreading. It is clear that the advertising dimension involves a need for dissemination and it is clear that this law, however, directs the judge towards a direction, which I believe is obligatory. I think, however, Mr President, that the basic problem is another one, namely that we want to find a solution in the criminal field to a problem which, on the other hand, is cultural or educational in nature. That is the underlying problem. That is why this law is wrong. This law leads us to put our opinions in the crosshairs in any case, even if it is an incitement. But why should the terrorist incitement against the State of Israel have an aggravating effect if someone does so by denying the Shoah? Objectively, what must be punished is the purpose of the destruction of the State of Israel as well as of any other State, regardless of the reasons that support this criminal objective. Madam President, it is precisely because we want to give a criminal solution to a cultural problem that we risk, from a cultural point of view, to carry out a grammar that is obvious and that, not by chance, has been emphasized by many historians. You can think of it the way you want it, but the Shoah and the Holocaust are one thing; genocide crimes, crimes against humanity and war crimes are something else. On the one hand, there is a historical fact. Its scope is being discussed, but it is established. On the other hand, there are much less certain situations on which both the cultural debate and the debate within the courtrooms is open. This is an unfinished debate. So here we are at a crossroads. Either we say that we entrust to a magistrate the judgment on certain facts, transforming the judge into a historian; or we go to search for state truths that objectively punch with the principles proper to liberalism. But the problem is another one, Madam President. Regardless of its size, the Shoah is considered, by the widespread culture and also by historiography, a unique and unrepeatable fact. And how can one put a unique and unrepeatable fact next to various facts and eventualities? Allow me a personal memory, dating back to one of the last discussions I had with my master François Furet. His book, "The Past of an Illusion," had just come out. As you know, Furet could certainly not be accused of complacency with communism. To an objection of a student, who said that the crimes of communism were, from the numerical point of view, far greater than those perpetrated by Nazism through the Holocaust, Furet replied that it was not a problem of numbers, but the point was the irequivalence and the uniqueness of that historical event. I remember his words when he said that if a kulako had gone to Greenland, Stalin would have stopped persecuting him; if instead a Jew had gone to Greenland, he would not have come out of Hitler's goal. This is the difference between the Shoah and that list of other deplorable crimes and historical situations that Senator Giovanardi listed. So by putting them together, we also achieve the cultural goal of relativizing the Shoah. 18.23 (Followed by Mr Quagliarello). We run in some way the risk of trivializing something that is unique and incredibly deep in its evil root, to the point that those who know the literature on the Shoah, those who have read the books of Primo Levi and Semprun, have even found light some masterpieces of our cinematography such as "Life is beautiful" or "Schindler's List" because they cannot offer to the full the depth of that historical drama. That, Mr President, this law - which I did not vote for at first reading - also runs this risk, among other things. At one stroke he introduces or nears the crime of opinion; grants an incredible discretionary power to the magistrate or, alternatively, pushes towards the ascertainment of state truth; and finally relativizes the uniqueness of a historical fact such as the Shoah. Having managed to do these three things with a simple bill and mostly composed of a single article, is certainly a masterpiece for which congratulations must be made to the majority, but it is the reason why I personally will not vote for this law. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u65	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the debate on this issue has been going on for years and confirms the difficulty of regulating such a matter for its uncertain and sloppy border, as is freedom of opinion. Instead of calling upon authoritative legislators, lawyers and magistrates, this matter requires a strong commitment of historians, researchers, teachers, educators, journalists and intellectuals and equally strong action in the affirmation of the rights of freedom and respect for humanity by all. I have therefore not changed my mind in relation to my initial opinion, which saw me against a law on this matter, and even more so - I would like to remind this House - shortcuts such as the attempt to have the draft law approved by the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs. I believe that the public positions, even recent ones, of authoritative historians and intellectuals, also of the Jewish world, should call us to a caution and to a further reflection, because here - as some colleagues already said - more than intervening with the penal code should intervene with the formation of citizens in the growth of their civic knowledge and in respect of others and not so much by branding heavy sanctions that, for the truth, already exist, when opinion becomes incitement and incitement to others to commit crimes. These are the reasons, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, which lead me to declare my abstention vote, not wanting to go against the opinion of the majority, to which I belong, but at the same time wanting to confirm my autonomy of judgment on particularly sensitive issues concerning the prospect not only of this majority and of this Parliament, but of the nation. The latter must be able to distinguish between fundamental principles that must always be defended and legislative actions that very often highlight conveniences and opportunities that should be well assessed. [[Applause from Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u68	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out that the amendment we are about to vote on is a matter of course to be replaced by the following. It has been almost ten years for Parliament to discuss the introduction of a rule which severely abominable sanctions such as the denial of serious crimes against humanity, which has continued, moreover, with the intention of inciting hatred. The first proposal dates back to 2007 (there was the Prodi government) and nothing was done about it. Almost ten years later, I think it is time to vote on this measure. The 5 Star Movement shares the opportunity to approve a rule that can help to counter the worrying spread of racism and anti-Semitism and, in particular, the denial of widely documented historical facts, such as the extermination of Jews and other minorities. We have done our part and we believe that the time has come to conclude the procedure for this measure. Of course, we have also assumed the responsibility to oppose the discussion of the measure in the deliberating session, which is also a step away from the approval of its first version. The reason was very simple: that of then was a profoundly wrong rule and we were right. The entire Senate (i.e. basically all the Groups) gave us reason by sending the text back to the Commission to be amended. By voting on that measure in the deliberative session we would have compromised the freedom of opinion and historical research, because we would have also affected activities not aimed at the committee of crimes or at incitement to commit them. It would have been a huge mistake. I remember that everything had been done to celebrate with a vote, desired by the then president of the Republic of Naples, the anniversary of the rake of the ghetto of Rome. Certainly we were right in asking for further time for reflection then, because the text initially proposed by the majority was profoundly wrong, as everyone has acknowledged. However, no apology was received from those on that occasion who accused us of xenophobia. Of course, intellectual honesty obviously does not have citizenship in this Parliament. Now, however, at the third reading, new amendments to the text are being approved, which will then have to be returned to the House. Of course this is also the value of bicameralism, that is, trying to find out if there are errors, weaknesses in the bill and possibly correct them; I would remind you, however, that in a single-camera system such changes will no longer be possible; changes wanted by a majority intending to abolish the two-camera system, thus making a double mistake. There is no doubt that the most effective contrast to the dramatic increase in forms of denial of incontrovertible historical facts such as the Shoah must be, in the first place, a cultural fact, of the formation of public opinion in schools; however, we do not escape from agreeing on the desirability of a legal intervention that also wants to be a strong reminder not to forget, as well as an element of dissent for those forms of negationism that represent one of the most hateful aspects of racist practices, moreover all too often linked to political purposes, in which the criticism of reality is directed to procure and foment racial hatred. Coming to this measure, we can only make a few brief comments. Firstly, Amendment No 1,401, tabled by Senator D'Ascola, rewrites the entire bill, effectively annihilating the work done by the Commission. Secondly, the text received at the beginning of the sitting at the beginning of the sitting could and should probably have been much more debated: an hour for the submission of sub-amendments is all that has been granted to Parliament. Thirdly, the work of ascertaining the truth delegated to the judges by this provision, without any indication of the facts indicated in the judgments handed down by international courts, risks conferring too broad a mandate, almost wanting to discharge to the judiciary the lack of courage of politics to fulfil its role to the full. In short, if we were a majority and had proposed this rule, we would have formulated it as an aggravating pre-condition and modified crime in the terms set out and, in all probability, fired even for a few years. However, we are well aware that we are not in the majority and we acknowledge that the proposal tabled by the D'Ascola amendment has the undisputed advantage of not affecting the effectiveness of the Mancino law in its most general scope. We also welcome the fact that there can be broad political convergence on this text, which is hoped for in both branches of Parliament, since it is an important rule, not only and not so much because of its regulatory scope, but rather because of the clear message contained in it and which is sent to the country through it. We also consider that the proposed text, which is certainly not the best possible, is nevertheless sufficiently balanced and therefore represents an effective way out of a impasse that has been going on in Parliament for too many years now. For all these reasons I declare the vote in favour of the 5 Star Movement.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u71	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am really in a situation where I was hoping I wouldn't be. The Commission has unanimously adopted a text, so obviously also with the vote of the Forza Italia Group, and it is this vote that I am referring to in order to indicate the will of my Group with regard to this bill. I am referring to this vote because, with a procedure that was not decided by you, Mr Gasparri, but was introduced at a time when you were not presiding, therefore under another presidency, a frankly paradoxical thing was established, namely that we have a basic text, the one on which this House is working in full effect, even at this moment. The only text that is legitimated by a vote, the text on which we should express ourselves, is the text approved by the Commission, unanimously in addition. Well, are we free, do we have the right to express ourselves on that text? Do we have the right to say that the text adopted unanimously by the Commission is what we prefer? I would say yes, given that it has been approved by the Commission and is currently under discussion. However, the amendment tabled by Senator D'Ascola, entirely replacing Article 1. These are things that happen, sometimes even when the bill is made up of hundreds of paragraphs, which we know, perhaps, can contain forcings aimed at other things; in this case, however, the bill is short and therefore can be there. Under your presidency, Mr Gasparri, the sub-amendments were accepted, we discussed them and they were all rejected. The Commission's text and the amended proposal presented by Senator D'Ascola remain at this stage. I would like to be able to express my opposition to this amendment because we believe that it is, as we have also explained a great deal in the vote on the sub-amendments, a great deal worse than what was unanimously adopted in the Commission. We would like to be free to express ourselves on what is left, namely, at this point, the D'Ascola text, since it seems quite definite that the majority of the Government will approve this amendment. I would like my Group and each of us to be able to express our views on the text because now the choice should be between the Commission text and the D'Ascola proposal. Once the D'Ascola proposal has been adopted, and is likely to be, we should be able to express ourselves on the choice of having the D'Ascola text or not having any text. In this second case, I believe that, probably with disagreements in my group, I would be in favour of that text: better a text that has many shortcomings than no text. However, apart from what I can think or can think of my Group, it must be a right of the Senate to express itself on an amendment and each of us must be free to say that he prefers the basic text, I repeat unanimously approved by the Commission, over the one proposed by the D'Ascola amendment, and then be able to express itself in the choice between the text thus amended and no text. Of this procedure, frankly, in the past fifteen years of the Senate I do not remember any precedent, because I think that there has been very difficult an amendment, entirely replacing a text approved by the Commission, as the only text of the draft law. If that were the case, the possibility of expressing itself, not on any text, should prevail - because it may happen that an amendment is foreclosed, but that the Commission's text is forbidden - but in favour of the Commission's text. I am free to say, as I say - and by now on the subject - that the amendment we are debating, but it will, if it is adopted, leave us somewhat dissatisfied. Let us come to the main differences. The Senate had already twice approved a text (in the Assembly and then in the Commission) which introduced the requirement of "publicly" as regards not only this particular case but all cases of incitement to hatred and racial discrimination. It had already been decided at first reading by the Senate and then confirmed by the Commission, at second reading, to extend the requirement to all. The D'Ascola amendment eliminates it in general and re-introduces it with an extremely ambiguous formula that is highly discretionary by the judge. On the other hand, the text is so vaguely expressed that the judge will be obliged to exercise enormous discretion; therefore, less legal certainty: exactly the opposite of what was intended. Secondly, the very sensible amendment calling at least for a reduction in the application of the rule in the case of war crimes - which, in my opinion, are too numerous as set out in the present text - has been rejected by limiting it to those in which there has been a court ruling. Here, however, we risk being able to pursue everything and the opposite of everything, in the end losing sight of the real objective that was intended to be pursued by the bill, of which I am honored to be the second signatory (I was the first signatory in the last legislature; it was a long work), in the text approved at first reading by the Senate and then in the Commission by the Senate. In these times where acts of hostility towards the Jews, for example those in our country and in Europe and those in Israel, at this time when the very few survivors of this monstrosity are ever older - and the inevitable passing of years ago so that they are less and less numerous - the understanding is that this memory is not subject to the danger of cancellation. It was appropriate to put in our law a seal that would remedy the monstrosity that took place precisely in these parliamentary classrooms, in 1938, with the approval of racial laws that are a horror, a stain of infamy on our country. Unfortunately, this understanding has been thwarted by a logic once again by a majority of government, by compromises between various currents, in this case, perhaps, even by the thirst for protagonism of some President of the Commission, and I am not referring to President D'Ascola, but to other President of the Commission, the justice of another branch of Parliament, which, after all, is free to express what he wants. We, however, should be free to proceed in our work, and if we have said yes unanimously to a text in the Commission, we should have the dignity to say yes to the same text also in this House, and not to make this bill, which is the most bipartisan of all those we have examined since the beginning of the legislature (in the sense that it starts and goes on as a bipartisan), an issue, once again, of majority and opposition. As has been pointed out by the lack of answers on specific requests made in the whole brief debate on sub-amendments, the only justification for this text in place of that of the Commission is that a majority compromise between personalisms emerged in other parts of Parliament had to be reached. With deep regret, I therefore announce that the Forza Italia Group will not participate in this vote because of a procedure that we absolutely do not agree with, that we consider dangerous and that we fear will be applied in other circumstances, that - frankly - we do not have the imagination to know what they will be, but in relation to which it is clear that this will be an unacceptable force. We do not want to vote against a text which must become the only thing we can express ourselves on. There is a Commission text on which we cannot express ourselves, because we must express ourselves on another text, which was born outside the examination and logic of the debate that took place in the Commission and in this House. Similarly, we cannot vote in favour of an amendment which we formally consider to be highly worsening in relation to the Commission's text. On the basis of the Commission's vote in favour, I declare that the Forza Italia Group does not vote on this amendment, which we consider to be a pejorative amendment, and on this procedure which we consider to be dangerous and wrong.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a point to Senator Malan and to the whole of this House. First of all, I would like to thank Senator Malan for recalling the fact that those who have chaired the proceedings in recent days have allowed, on the basis of a request for the application of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate (by heart), the possibility of submitting sub-amendments which have allowed, at various sessions, a debate. However, the fact remains that the possible approval of amendment 1,401, tabled by Senator D'Ascola, being entirely a substitute for the only article in the draft law under consideration, involves, with its possible approval, the replacement of the text of the bill. Consequently, as has been said several times, if this amendment is adopted, all remaining amendments will be precluded and the final vote on the draft law will not be taken. In fact, if the new text were to be adopted entirely in place of the text under consideration, the possible final vote would be a violation of the ne bis in idem principle, voting twice on the same. Article 120, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate states, in fact, that when the bill is composed of a single article and no additional articles have been proposed, after the possible vote of the amendments, the final vote of the bill is definitely carried out, without the prior vote of the only article, which would otherwise represent a duplication of the same subject of vote. I wanted to reiterate this for the sake of clarity of our work. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). There's an encore, but not the same!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u75	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, we come to this vote, which for the Democratic Party will be in favour, after a long, troubled and complex journey, which at times has joined this House almost unanimously, while in others it has not been able to do so. Colleagues, the path is long and ideally connects to a dark page of our country's history: I refer to the so-called racial laws of 1938. Meanwhile, in the world, alongside the Shoah, other devastating crimes against humanity have grown. In the face of the re-emergence, even in recent years and months, of the cultures of hatred and violence we have posed the problem of how to intervene and which way to use. We have thus decided and confirmed - this address is also present in the text at our examination - that against the opinions, even the most abominable and hateful ones, which we all reject morally and culturally, we must not resort to the weapon of criminal law. In other words, we have decided to confront ourselves, against this reality present today in Italy, in Europe and in the world, with the instruments of culture, education, democratic confrontation, free expression and persuasion, which is the fundamental weapon that exists in a democracy. Instead, against those forms of hatred that are defined in a very concrete way in the norm that is proposed to you, as forms of propaganda, incitement and incitement, and that are oriented to produce crimes (delicate, dear colleagues!), in the face of this reality, as is proposed to us today in our society, then we can resort to the weapon of criminal law. That's the choice that's been made. And this choice, ladies and gentlemen, was not made by a coup d'état in this House, but was made by collecting the elaboration and the work that we have produced here in the Senate, starting with the Commission, and which is contained today in the amendment proposed to us at the first signature of President D'Ascola. Colleagues, I inform you that you are preparing to vote on a text that, except for a small but important change (which I will be talking about shortly), has already been voted on 11 February 2015 and has been voted on almost unanimously. There are some colleagues who are now criticising this solution; but this is a solution that they have already voted on 11 February 2015, in that Senate solution where there was all the expression of Senator D'Ascola's amendment, except the famous publicly. Ladies and gentlemen, the text that we have already voted almost unanimously - and I would like all my fellow senators to do this examination of conscience with respect to that vote - already contained all the famous expressions: "propaganda", "incitement", "public incitement", "which are based in whole or in part on the denial of the Shoah" (the latter explicitly and firmly indicated); the text of the D'Ascola amendment also refers to crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, as defined by Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, ratified by our country by Law No 232 of 12 July 1999. Colleagues, this choice was made by the Senate on February 11, 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, this choice was confirmed by the Commission just a few days ago; no change has been made on these fundamental points in the Commission; that is why it seems strange that there are now doubts here in this House about those fundamental choices that we have all made together, even with those that now declare their vote against. That's weird. I hope that this change will be the product of a legitimate conviction, of a legitimate revision of an opinion, and instead it will not be attracted by a schematic and - alas - poor political game, which often does not honour the work that is done and which is proposed here in its clarity and transparency. I was saying that there is only one element that is changed, the adverb is publicly changed. Ladies and gentlemen, living law in recent years has presented us with a reality that is outside the private and public categories. We did not want, ladies and gentlemen, to enter the private sphere (the famous dinner, which has been represented here several times, where opinions are freely expressed), nor did we want to lock up the choices we have made within the wider category of the public, because indeed living law presents us with cases that are not entirely private and are not entirely public. The draftsman of the amendment, Mr D'Ascola, has taken on board this problem, with a solid and well-defined wording from the point of view of our case law: "in such a way that there is a real danger of spreading." No crime of opinion, no state sentence, but only the possibility of striking when there is propaganda, incitement and incitement to crime, through a very strict, well-established rule, which enables us, ladies and gentlemen, to vote with a large majority, which goes beyond the classic majority of government. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the choice we have made is very solid. The reference to Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court does not refer to individual acts. In fact, Article 6 (crime of genocide), Article 7 (crimes against humanity) and Article 8 (crimes of war) contain precise indications in premise. For the crime of genocide the rest must be committed in order to destroy, in whole or in part, a national ethnic, racial or religious group (other than individual cases that were indicated, to debase its scope!); thus crimes against humanity: if committed within the framework of an extensive or systematic attack on civilian populations; thus war crimes: when committed as part of a large-scale political plan or plan. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this call is also very solid, ratified in our country and makes us avoid the pantomimes that here before, in a rather incorrect way, were represented to us. We vote in favour of the amendment and I hope that those who voted in favour both in the Senate vote on 11 February 2015 and in the Commission on several occasions, since they are now preparing to vote against, look at their consciences and publicly take account of this change, which is always legitimate, but - I hope - not instrumental in political games. We will write this page of history; we want to write it together and the Senate can be proud of the vote it is preparing to make. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u77	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u78	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, in my group's disagreement, I will vote against this amendment in its entirety, despite my deep-rooted beliefs that anti-Semitic sentiments and the need to combat them in each country and with coordinated actions are taking place in the same European dimension. The very defence of the State of Israel is an essential part of it. But all this cannot lead me to accept a measure, of which I particularly context the fact that it contributes to an equally dangerous extension of the criminal qualification of human behavior at a time when we should take the opposite path, according to criteria of simplicity and certainty. I recognise the attempt to contain the damage done by President D'Ascola, trying to limit the scope of the criminal law. However, there remains a broad reference to the judge's discretionary appreciation and above all that crime of opinion which, for those who have any liberal culture, represents a "contradiction" which does not allow it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Albertini, Liuzzi and Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u80	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u81	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, my vote will be in dissent from the Group - because I will vote against it - especially after hearing the speech by Senator Lumia, who has not convinced me at all, and indeed convinced me to vote against it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u82	I greet the students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico (Technical Institute) Don Luigi Sturzo in Bagheria, in the province of Palermo. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u85	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the question I would like to put concerns what you have announced and what Mr Fedeli has announced about the fact that, once the D'Ascola amendment has been voted on, no further vote should be taken. In fact, Article 120 (2) has a very different interpretation in my view. Where Article 120 states that, after the possible vote on the amendments and individual parts of the article - in the case of a draft law of a single article - the final vote on the draft law is no doubt to be taken - the draft law is to be voted on. It is only possible to avoid voting on the article, as the measure consists of only one article; it avoids voting on the article, but the draft law must be voted on. The article makes this clear: 'nothing else', and this expression refers to overcoming the voting stage of the article. We are now in the presence of an amendment entirely replacing Article 1 and the latter, as Senator Malan said, came from a text approved unanimously by the Commission. So now, by voting on the amendment, we are called upon to choose between two texts in their literal and even substantive diction. After that, we are called to choose on the bill, having listened to many speeches, including those of Senator Quagliariello, whether or not to vote in favour of the law in its essence of introducing the crime of negationism. It is one thing to choose a text (and, as legislators, we must choose what we consider most suitable to be inserted into our corpus iuris); Another is to make an assessment of the desirability of including such a law in our legal system. I would therefore ask you to consider it, because Article 120 (2) clearly indicates, in my opinion, that the article should not be voted on, as it is exhausted from the vote on the amendment entirely replacing it; but Article 120 itself says that the final vote on the draft law is certainly to be taken. In my opinion, after having voted on the amendment (I imagine what its fate will be, since I have heard from the explanations of vote that there will be an approval), each of us, in our parliamentary conscience, will be called upon to express a political vote, in the good sense of the term, on the draft law. So, Mr President, I would like to ask you to consider this interpretation of Rule 120 (2) which I think is unequivocal: the 'nothing else' refers to the opportunity not to vote on an article that has already been so defined, and in fact the 'nothing else' precedes the speech that votes on the draft law, including explanations of vote. Now, when we voted on the amendment, we should vote on the article with explanations of vote: that would be a duplicate of the final vote, because we would vote on an article that is the same as the final vote. But having to skip the vote on the article, as provided for in paragraph 2 of Rule 120, we have the right, Mr President, to vote, with explanations of vote, on the final text as a law. Today we are voting on a text which composes the article. I repeat, I could be called upon to assess the literal opportunity, that is, whether this composition of Article 1 is better or worse; then I will be called upon to express my political assessment of the draft law. Why do you want to preclude me from making a choice of legislative opportunities and then my substantial-political choice? I believe this to be a very dangerous precedent, and if you, Mr President, were to achieve what the Presidency has already indicated, I would ask you to immediately convene - if it is ever possible in the Senate in this parliamentary term - the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to decide on an issue which cannot be decided lightly. [[Applause from Senators Fucksia and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u86	Senator D'Alì, I would not like to repeat what I have said before, but I believe, please with regard to you and the House, that I must reiterate - and I am pleased to be presiding over when I reopened the deadline for the submission of sub-amendments - that I can make a mistake, but I think I interpret the Rules correctly impartially. When certain groups made a request, in the face of an important amendment by the rapporteur, they also acknowledged that the Presidency had taken part in the evaluation that had been made, i.e. that it had allowed colleagues to subservient. Some people did not agree, but it seemed to me that the procedure was correct and in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, so much so that the debate took place on the sub-amendments, whether they could be adopted or not, but that depends on the House. Now, without having to repeat, we are acting on the basis of an elementary principle: if this amendment were adopted, being entirely a replacement, it would not make sense to re-vote, and this is based on the principle that is well-known and which I certainly did not invent, of ne bis in idem. So you should not re-vote something that has already been approved. Moreover, without disturbing ancient principles of law, even our most modern Rules of Procedure, in Rule 97 (2), states that the agendas, amendments and proposals in contrast to resolutions already adopted by the Senate on the subject in the course of the debate are inadmissible. If we approve the full replacement amendment, we cannot re-vote another text which was then replaced. If instead the D'Ascola amendment were rejected - we have not yet voted on it and the House is sovereign - it would continue because the House would obviously have expressed itself by imagining the other text better, which would not disappear and would be discussed. The possibility of having the other text adopted is in the hands of the House, as in all votes. Your request to convene the Board for Rules of Procedure, we turn it to the President of the Senate, who I believe will have followed it and who, as you know, presides over the Council. In terms of principles, all discussions are welcome. As far as I am concerned, both on one occasion and on the other, I have taken a decision considering that I respect the Rules of Procedure and not to please one party. Besides, the principal has to do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u89	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u90	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,401, tabled by Senator D'Ascola. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group]] The remaining amendments tabled to the draft law, the examination of which has thus been concluded, are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u93	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, I would kindly ask whether we can reverse the agenda and bring into question the third item planned for today concerning the provisions relating to the European law of 2015 and the two related documents relating to the resolutions adopted by the Commission 14a. This is an urgent measure because it allows us to remedy infringement procedures. I therefore believe that priority can be given to other measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u94	I would remind you that a senator may speak for and against the proposal to reverse the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u97	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I'm against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u100	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I am in favour of Mr Cociancich's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u101	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to reverse the agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). Always play the same game! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a reversal of the agenda put forward by Senator Cociancich. It's approved. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u102	The next item is the joint debate on draft law No 2228 and documents XXIV. 56 and 59.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u105	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to remain in the record of what I am about to say, because the regulatory cunning you have put in place just now, in support of the request for verification of the quorum, with the whole Presidency table, is absolutely shameful. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What's the cunning? SANTANGELO (M5S). However, you must always maintain the same elasticity, even during the support phase of the request for verification of the quorum, as happens in the morning, when the senators vote even ten minutes late: I demand that the same method always be used. From the regulatory point of view you know my accuracy and I assure you that from now on, I will no longer give you any more breath on this subject and I will always stay on the track. I assure you, and I ask that what I am saying stays with the record, because the possibility of asking for a quorum check has only been open for three seconds. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not like that: now we're gonna make time. There's the board, Senator Santangelo, and then it's an electronic procedure. SANTANGELO (M5S). Then the system didn't work. I don't know. We'll do a test. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to be impartial and fair.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u106	Senator Santangelo, reflecting on its importance, I would like to point out to you that often, when there are first votes, in the morning or in the afternoon, it is customary to allow colleagues to finish withdrawing voting cards or to reach their place. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] First I made a point of order to all my fellow Members, given the delicacy of the debate, asking whether they had fully voted. The procedure for supporting the request for verification of the quorum was carried out in accordance with normal practice, without any interest; moreover, it is not clear what the interest would have been. SANTANGELO (M5S). There is the Rules of Procedure, not the practice!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u109	Senator Comaroli, the speaker was about to speak. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to highlight one problem before the report begins, because today in the Budget Committee there has been a problem with the text, which the rapporteur is now about to present. So, in my opinion, before we start the report, we should be sure of the outcome of the debate in the Budget Committee, because there is really a problem of coverage, so much so that we have postponed the full examination until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u110	Senator Comaroli, before you proceed to the amendments, your comment will have to find an adequate answer, according to our rules. The rapporteur on draft law No 2228, Senator Cociancich, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 14th Commission has given me a mandate to report to this House in favour of the adoption of the European bill, as amended during the Commission's examination. I believe that this is a good text, which will enable our country to take a further step forward in strengthening its position in the European Union. First of all, I would like to point out that the annual European bill, as provided for in Law No 234 of 2012 has the main task of reducing or eliminating cases of regulatory conflict between our legal system and the European one. An action, this, which takes place through a long and elaborate path, of which the bill constitutes the final and formal passage. A path that goes through multiple stages of negotiation managed by the Government, in which the main interest that is taken into account is the national interest of our companies, our citizens and our social and economic fabric, even if in the context of a more general interest, that is that of the European Union, which must be cohesive and functional. In this sense, I am referring to certain articles of the measure, which must be read in the face of the national interest of reducing cases of litigation or prelitigation with the European Union, without thereby representing an abandonment of the will to protect and promote the rights, interests and specificities of our businesses and our citizens. However, this second aspect is outside the content of European law, as it was designed and designed under Law 234 of 2012. The right place to bring together the need to protect the specific features of the Italian economic and social fabric must necessarily be that of measures other than European law, or it must be the subject of political actions to be promoted at European level, at the Council of the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Commission. These concrete actions are mainly undertaken by the Government, during the European decision-making process, but the National Parliament also intervenes fully, with acts of direction to the Government and through the political dialogue with the European institutions and the scrutiny of subsidiarity on the legislative proposals that come to Parliament. The bill, presented to the Senate last February 3 with 22 articles, now consists of a total of 38 articles. Of these, 16 are aimed at closing EU Pilot cases, 4 are used to end as many infringement procedures and 2 are used to resolve state aid procedures. The remaining 16 articles bring changes to national legislation in order to avoid the opening of further EU Pilot cases or infringement procedures. Together with the bill, the Government has also handed over to the Senate Presidency, on computer support, the acts of infringement procedures and EU Pilot cases, which are the basis of the legal provisions contained in the provision. In relation to such acts, the Government has recommended their confidential use, pursuant to paragraph 5 of Article 14 of Law No 234. According to the latest available data, which take into account the decisions taken by the European Commission on 28 April 2016, the number of infringement proceedings against our country has fallen to the historical minimum of 80 procedures, 62 of which for infringement of EU law and 18 for failure to transpose directives. This is an exceptional result, the result of a targeted and effective work, carried out by the Government, with the support of Parliament, which has brought the number to a level that can be defined as physiological, comparable to that of the other Member States. As is well known, infringement proceedings are distinguished in a first phase (ex Article 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union), which concludes with a judgment of the Court of Justice that establishes the violation and imposes the necessary regulatory change and the payment of judicial expenses. In the event of failure to comply with that judgment, a second stage may be opened, which concludes with a further sentence, which this time involves the payment of financial penalties. The penalties are of two types: the lump sum, which aims to punish non-compliance as such, and the periodic penalty payment, which is intended to require the cessation of the infringement as soon as possible. The two penalties may be imposed retroactively in cases where the infringement of Union law is particularly serious and persistent. Indicatively, for Italy the minimum lump sum is 8,916,000 euros, while the periodic penalty payment varies between a minimum of 10,753,50 euros and a maximum of 645,210 euros for each day of delay in the execution of the sentence, depending on the gravity of the infringement. As far as the EU Pilot procedure is concerned, it has been introduced since April 2008 in order to provide faster and more comprehensive answers to questions concerning the application of European Union law, in particular those addressed by citizens or businesses, and to propose solutions to problems that may arise in this area, where a confirmation of the factual or legal position in a Member State is necessary. The system has been designed to improve communication between the Commission services and the authorities of the Member States, to find solutions to problems relating to the application of European Union law and compliance with the law of a Member State at an early stage, i.e. before the initiation of an infringement procedure. I shall now, Mr President, read the content of the articles which make up European law, of course in a synthetic way. Article 1 on the labelling of olive oils aims to resolve the EU Pilot 4632/13/AGRI case concerning the provisions on the quality and transparency of the virgin olive oil chain. In particular, point (a) refers again to the rules on the labelling of olive oil. By European law 2013- bis, again in the above case EU Pilot, it was foreseen that "The indication of the origin of mixtures of olive oils originating in more than one Member State of the European Union or in a third country (...), must be printed... with different and more evident chromatic relevance compared to the background, other indications and sales denomination". However, the Commission has pointed out that there is a contrast with the European regulation of the rule which gives greater evidence to the indication of the origin of mixtures of olive oils than to other mandatory indications. Therefore, with the provision in question, the contrast is cured. Point (b) shall be used to repeal the provision of a minimum period for the conservation of olive oils. In particular, the European Commission has not considered that the regulatory indication of a period of not more than 18 months of extra virgin olive oil complies with European legislation, considering that the quality of these oils depends on other factors and that the indication of the duration should be left to the choice of individual producers under their responsibility. In this latter respect, in order to strengthen the protection of consumers of olive oils, an amendment was adopted in the Commission, which was signed by me, aimed at increasing the penalties for non-compliance with the labelling requirement for the expiry of the oil. [[Brusio. References by the President]] They seem boring, but there has actually been a very intense debate in the Commission. So, I think they're important issues. Article 2 contains a provision on the labelling of honey, aimed at remedying the case EU Pilot 7400/15/AGRI, in which the European Commission contested the non-compliance, with Directive 2001/110/EC on honey, of the Italian standard which provides, even for packages imported from other Member States, for honey harvested in several Member States or third countries, that the countries of origin in which honey was harvested must be indicated, without allowing it to indicate only that it is a mixture of honeys, originating or not originating in the European Union, as provided for in Article 2 (4) of the Directive. Article 3 on the labelling of foodstuffs aims to remedy that part of the case EU Pilot 5938/13/SNCO concerning non-compliance with Article 4, paragraph 49-a, of Law No 350 of 2003, in relation to the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 1108/2013 on the provision of food information to consumers. In particular, the Italian rule defines the country of origin of the product as the place of last substantial processing and, at the same time, the place of origin of the primary ingredient. On the other hand, Regulation (EU) No 1154/2005 provides that the country of origin of the product is that defined by the Community Customs Code, i.e. the place of last substantial processing, while the indication of the origin of the primary ingredient, which may be indicated where this differs from the place of origin of the product, does not detect for customs and marketing purposes. Article 4 - introduced during the examination in the Commission - contains two novelties of legislation transposing European directives on medical devices. The amendments are limited to replacing the phrase 'costs/benefits' with that of 'risks/benefits', following an approved correction, published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 5 - introduced during the examination in the Commission - extends the financial administrative penalty already provided for for breaches of the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 on substances and mixtures, including infringements of the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 1297/2014, amending the previous one. Chapter II of the draft law contains provisions on freedom to provide services and freedom of establishment. Mr President, I realize that this reading is particularly boring, if I may, I would just like to state the titles of the various articles, then handing over the full text of the intervention so that it is annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting, so that those interested in knowing the number of regulations can also do so by reading the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. COCIANCICH, rapporteur on draft law No 2228. Article 6 relates to the companies certification bodies (SOA). Article 7 concerns the taxation of winnings paid by gambling houses. Article 8, introduced during the examination in the Commission, repeals paragraph 3 of Article 29 of Legislative Decree No 276 of 2003, in order to close the case EU Pilot No 7622. According to the European Commission, this rule excludes in any case that the acquisition, following the takeover of a new contractor, of the staff already employed in the contract, constitutes transfer of the company or part of the company. Article 9 allows the Department of Juvenile Justice to avail itself of the juvenile services of the Administration of Justice, the bodies of the public administration and of all the competent bodies, as well as to access, through these bodies and bodies, the information contained in the databases in their use. Article 10 concerns the forced execution procedures to be carried out in another State, also giving power and effectiveness to acts formed in our country abroad. Article 11 lays down rules on legal aid in judgments relating to maintenance obligations and judgments relating to the international abduction of minors. Article 12 deals with the legislation on residence permits for third-country nationals. Article 13 exempts from the payment of the traffic tax the travel vehicles of European citizens who study in Italy. Article 14 concerns the overcoming of certain aspects of incompatibility between Italian legislation and the Community agreements implementing the Association Agreement with regard to the temporary importation of motor vehicles. Article 15 concerns the VAT rate applicable to supplies of basil, rosemary and sage. Article 16 raises the VAT rate applicable to supplies of rice-based food preparations from 4% to 10%. Article 17 seeks to remedy the cooperation procedure on State aid relating to tax concessions to agricultural consortia. Article 18 concerns the so-called trapage tax. Article 19 designates the Customs and Monopolies Agency as the competent customs administration responsible at national level for the customs information system. Article 20 deals with the taxation of parent companies and subsidiaries of different Member States. Article 21 concerns aid for the operation of the shipbuilding industry in order to remedy the State aid procedure No SA 38919. Article 22 deals with taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. Article 23 deals with the tax treatment of the collection of truffles. Article 24 covers possible discrimination between non-EU flag vessels and Community flag vessels. Article 25 introduces sanctioning provisions for non-compliance by railway operators with the provisions adopted by the National Railway Safety Agency (ANSF). Article 26 lays down provisions on hunting for the closure of part of the EU Pilot 6955 case, in particular with regard to the protection of homeopathic wildlife and for hunting. Article 27 deals with the geological storage of carbon dioxide. Article 28 concerns the third energy package. Articles 29 to 34 shall contain provisions on compensation for victims of violent intentional crime. Article 35 aims to remedy a lack of coordination between Article 19 and Article 2, paragraph 9-a, of Law 234 of 2012. Article 36 intervenes in the same Law No 234 of 2012, with amendments in the matter of State aid. Article 37, introduced during the examination in the Commission, increases by 12 million euros annually, from 2017, the fund for the operating expenses of the Data Protection Supervisor. Finally, Article 38 contains a clause of financial invariance for all the provisions of this draft law. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u112	He asked to speak in order to supplement the written report by Senator Mirabelli, rapporteur on documents XXIV, Nos. 56 and 59. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u113	Mr President, I would like to outline the resolutions tabled and adopted in 14a. Commission on two important documents, the first of which is the deal assigned to the summary report on Italy's participation in the European Union for 2015, produced by the Government. The discussion on this report allowed all the Permanent Commissions of the Senate to examine the contents of their respective competence, as soon as the Government submitted them to the Chambers. We are talking about an important instrument for Parliament's exercise of control over the work and work of the Government in the decision-making bodies of the European Union. The first part of the resolution, which deals with the conclusion of the Government's action in the European Union, is devoted to developments in the European integration process and institutional issues. It is divided into three chapters: the first concerns the two Presidencies of the Council of the European Union, Latvia and Luxembourg, following the Italian one; the second concerns institutional issues with particular reference to the so-called Better Regulation, the negotiation of Brexit hypothesis, the reform of the European Union court, the protection of the rule of law of the European Union, the accession to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) and relations with the institutions of the European Union; the third chapter concerns the coordination of macroeconomic policies and deals with the issues of economic growth, monetary, fiscal and budgetary policies of the Investment Plan for Europe, the so-called Juncker Plan, and the Banking Union and Financial Markets. This first part deals with the relationship between citizens and the European Union and the need to better legislate and therefore examines the possibility of careful verification of the consequences and the management of the laws that the European Union defines. The second part is devoted to measures adopted under horizontal policies such as single market and competitiveness policies, the digital single market, energy, the capital market and sectoral policies, such as social policies and those aimed at strengthening an area of freedom, security and justice. This second part deals in detail with issues related to the Juncker Plan and 315 billion for public and private investments planned for 2015. The third part, on the subject of the external dimension of the European Union, illustrates the actions on foreign policy and the Government claims the role it played in 2015, placing the Mediterranean as the top priority of the European nation and spending on a political solution to the Libyan crisis. I would add that the Government, on development cooperation, insisted in 2015 emphasising the close link between immigration and development. The fourth part deals with communication and training activities relating to the European Union and the fifth part deals with national coordination of European policies, with particular regard to the role of the interministerial committee for the affairs of the European Union and the technical evaluation committee. With regard to the second resolution, however, it concerns the priorities of the European Union for 2016. This work has also enabled all the Permanent Commissions to examine at the same time three important annual policy documents: two from the European Union and one from the Italian Government. This is the Commission's work programme for 2016, which has a significant title: It is time to go beyond the ordinary administration, the 18-month programme of the Council of the European Union on the Presidencies of the Netherlands, Slovakia and Malta, and the programmatic report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2016, presented to the Chambers by the Government. These documents have been examined by all the Permanent Commissions, but we have also examined the programme documents with the Conference of Presidents of the Legislative Assemblies of the Regions, from which an important contribution has been made on the substance of the resolution. The European Commission's work programme for 2016 confirms structurally the same line as that of 2015, by developing and updating the ten priorities of the political guidelines formulated by President Juncker at the start of the new Commission. The basic idea of the programme, which last year was expressed under the heading "A new beginning" is also maintained and further strengthened by the statement that it is time to go beyond ordinary administration. The Commission therefore intends to continue to implement and guide vigorous action, in political discontinuity compared to the past, to address the epochal challenges associated with the economic, financial, institutional and social crisis, further aggravated by the global threat of Islamist terrorism and unprecedented migratory pressure on the southern borders of the Union. We need to change to ensure a relationship between the European Union and its citizens, who are seriously in difficulty. On the other hand, it is obviously not my discovery, or our Commission's discovery, to verify that for so many European citizens Europe today rather than an opportunity is read as a problem. I am going to list the ten political priorities, which then produce 23 legislative proposals: employment, growth and investment, the digital single market, the building of an energy union, the strengthening of the Union's internal market and the Union's industrial base, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, the fairer monetary union, the free trade agreement with the United States, the area of justice and fundamental rights based on mutual trust, towards a new immigration policy; a stronger role in the world of the common foreign and security policy and finally the democratic change of better lawmaking, that is the issue that I posed first: the need to put in place checks on the impact of European legislation more binding and attentive. These are the priorities. I conclude by stressing the fact that in both documents it is clear that the future of Europe is being played on three fundamental issues: how Europe will be able to develop a social Europe, which can combine growth and a wider common area of rights to restore strength and confidence to citizens in the relationship with the European Union; how the European Union will be able to tackle the issue of combating terrorism with unity; how the European Union will be able to address the issue of immigration without losing its principles and values. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u116	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, what Senator Comaroli told us is absolutely true. The substantive Commission approved an amendment which was marked by the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission, Article 81 of the Constitution. This makes the text which comes to the House absolutely contrary in accordance with the above-mentioned article, which is why I am asking a question of constitutionality. I think it is quite clear that the Budget Commission will have to give its opinion again. However, an amendment on which the Budget Commission had expressed itself contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution was adopted at the stage of the proceedings. I therefore call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of the question of constitutionality after checking the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u119	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking as President of the Budget Commission to make it clear that the Commission has not yet voted on the opinion. We have examined the critical point concerning the famous article on spices, on which an amendment was voted in the Commission which we had observed in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. However, the Budget Commission will vote tomorrow morning on the opinion, which will also indicate the way to correct the text on the basis of a rewording which the rapporteur may propose. In view of the regularity of the facts, I would therefore like to make it clear that the Commission's opinion will be voted on tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u120	Since no one intends to intervene in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u121	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request made by Senator D'Alì is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. CHITI (PD). Mr President, my card is not working! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Chiti, your presence in the Chamber will still be counted for the purposes of calculating the quorum. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the bill and the documents in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u122	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-619.ana.u123	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 4 May, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.41 p.m.
