ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 22 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1870, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 157.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u5	Yes, Mr President, I confirm the call for withdrawal and, if it is not withdrawn, I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u6	Senator Bignami, do you accept the invitation to withdraw the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u7	No, Mr President, and I ask for the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u8	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,234, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9,235, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,235, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.236, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 9.237, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9,238, tabled by Senators Zizza and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.239, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators, identical to amendment 9.240, tabled by Senator Di Biagio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.241, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.242, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 9.243, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 9.244, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, until the words "financial activities" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 9,245 and 9,246 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.247, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 9.248, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.248, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 9.249, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, until the words "the foundations" are mentioned. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 9,250 and 9,251 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.252, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 9,253 is impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.254, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 9.255, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.255, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.256, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 9.257, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.258, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,259, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9260, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 9,261, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.262, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.263, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.264, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9,265, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.265, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.266, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.267, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 9.268, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.268, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9,269 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,270, tabled by Senator Di Biagio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,271, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Di Biagio, do you accept the invitation to withdraw the agenda G9.100? DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Panizza, do you accept the request for reformulation of the agenda G9.101? PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G9.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Panizza, do you accept the request for reformulation of the agenda G9.102? PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G9.102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u11	WRITER IN ZUANNA (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out that I voted wrongly in the previous vote: I wanted to vote in favour and not against.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u12	Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.0.100, which seeks to include an additional article after Article 9 and its sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u15	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Amendments 9.0.0.100/1, 9.0.0.100/2 and 9.0.0.100/3 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.0.100/4, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 9.0.0.100/5, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Council, and 9.0.0.100/6, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 9.0.0.100/7 has been withdrawn. Amendments 9.0.0100/8 to 9.0.0100/16 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.0.100/17, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9.0.0.100/18, tabled by Senators Calderoli and the Council, until the speech is taken. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 9.0.0.100/19 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/20, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.0.0.100/21.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u18	Mr Warra (PD). I would like to stress the importance of the amendment concerning the Italian Social Foundation. It aims to prevent this foundation from also being fed by public resources, apart from the initial allocation of EUR 1 million. It is not a question of being opposed to the fact that there can be public-private partnerships, but to the idea that public resources are managed by third parties, especially when they are in favour of the third sector. The way in which the public sector provides resources to the third sector is through public evidence procedures and transparent notices and does not rely on the discretion of a third party. Public resources in the field of innovative social policies must, in our opinion, be directed through institutional segments (region and municipalities). So let us welcome this foundation, alongside the others that already exist, but find the funds not from public resources.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u19	Senators Fornaro, Bencini, Pegorer, Gatti and Ricchiuti add their signature to the amendment. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/21, tabled by Senator Guerra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.0.100/22, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, which is essentially identical to Amendments 9,0100/23, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Council, and 9,0100/24, tabled by Senator Crimi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/25, tabled by Senator Torrisi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/26, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators, identical to Amendment 9.0.0.100/27, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/28, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators, essentially identical to Amendment 9.0.0.100/29, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u22	TORRISI (AP (NCD-UDC)). On Amendment 9.0.0.100/25 - I apologise for not following the outcome of the vote - the Government had expressed an opinion against it, but was willing to accept it as an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u23	The Government had thus expressed its views on another amendment, 9.0.0.100/33. Amendment 9.0.0.100/30 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/31, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/32, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Torrisi, do you accept the proposal to withdraw Amendment 9.0.0.100/33 and turn it into an agenda? TORRISI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Yes, I accept the proposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G9.0.0.100/33 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/34, tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/35, tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/36, tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 9.0.0.100/37 and 9.0.0.100/38 are absorbed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0100/39, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/40, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/41, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9.0.0100/42, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators, up to the words 'and update'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 9.0.0.100/43 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.0.100/44, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/45, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/46, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Council, identical to Amendment 9.0.0.100/47, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9.0.0.100/48, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, up to the words "on the subject." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 9.0.0.100/49 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/50, tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/51, tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/52, tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/53, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Council, identical to Amendment 9.0.0.100/54, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/55, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.0.100/56, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9.0.0.100/56, tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators, up to the words "commi 6". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 9.0.0.100/57 to 9.0.0.100/59 are therefore not included. We move on to Amendment 9.0.0.100/60, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/60, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.0.100/63, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/63, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 9.0.0.100/61, which is identical to Amendment 9.0.0.100/62, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/61, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Council, identical to Amendment 9.0.0.100/62, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/64, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/65, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.0.100/66, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u24	I greet the teachers and students of the Institute including Gabriele Faggella in San Fele, in the province of Potenza, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u25	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.0.0100.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u28	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we in the FI-PdL XVII Group will vote against this additional amendment establishing the Italian Social Foundation. Indeed, we do not feel the need for a further state body which, if we can understand something from the vague text that is submitted to us, should be a sort of big brother, supercontroller, IRI of the third sector. The IRI of ancient times and even of more recent times was already sufficient, but in this case a body is set up to head a sector that should be characterized by spontaneity, gratuitousness and freedom. Of course, it should receive funding and from what we understand it should manage them in a completely arbitrary way; moreover, the worst is that, even if I have read this text more than once, we cannot understand how this foundation should work: everything is entrusted to a statute approved by decree of the President of the Republic, on a proposal from the President of the Council, heard some Ministers. I wonder, then, if we're kidding. With this amendment we are approving a new body of the state, of which we have no idea, except that a member of the governing body (which, given the vague wording, is not even going to understand what it will be called) is designated by the National Council of the third sector; of everything else we have no idea. Incidentally, I stress that words from a language other than ours are used, which I believe has every possibility to express a concept such as crowdfunding, which for example could be referred to as widespread collection or collective financing; I believe that this latter wording would be the most normal, rather than using words that can be interpreted as useful. Finally, it must be said that this Fondazione Italia sociale uses a name already used: they bear this name, in fact, both a movement that is said to be a political party, and an information body, and they are not really in the context of that center-left that should express this majority of government, but much to the right; one is said to be an organ of national socialism; but from the context it seems more of national socialism than of national socialism and I do not know if this too likes. However, beyond the names, the establishment of this foundation is truly unacceptable, partly because it is known nothing but that it will be under the full control of the Government. If the Commission wants to provide funding, why not do it on its own responsibility? Perhaps to further reduce the few instruments of control and verification for Parliament and for the country towards the activity of this phantom foundation. I would add that this foundation was taken out at the last moment, at the last stage of the work in the Commission, where extensive work had been done, even if not shared, otherwise we too would have voted in favour of this text and so would the other opposition forces, but at least the work was involved. Well, this foundation comes out of the government's cylinder, which is unacceptable both for the way in which it is proposed, and for the way in which the text is presented and also for the purposes, as well as for the vague ones, proposed. Moreover, this foundation has its cost, for now limited, even if the real cost lies in the further lack of transparency introduced with this imaginative agency, yet another wheelchair to distribute money in a completely arbitrary way, since the criteria established here are not such and neither do we know how the statute will be conceived or trained the staff of the equally fantomatic governing body of this foundation. In short, a veritable filth, thrown there, within the framework of a measure already quite confused, with a blank delegation to the Government, totally unrelated to what a Parliament should approve. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u31	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I will not repeat the remarks made earlier by Senator Malan, which I largely agree with. I will try not to bore you and to say only what I think is necessary and, modestly, original. Here we establish by law a foundation that has the characteristics of a private institution that will nevertheless receive public funding and that already surprises me. But as a private body, it will be able to recruit without ban and will have all the freedom, autonomy and the possibility to travel to lighthouses off - and it is perhaps here to find the explanation that Senator Malan was looking for - pursuing policies and using well the clientele leverage provided by the President of the Council of Ministers. I wonder who will be the chairman of this foundation, who will compose the board of directors. Someone already says that there will be that Vincenzo Manes who - if I remember correctly - with over 60,000 euros financed the political foundation of the President of the Council. And if it is not he will be others of the entourage loyal to the Leopolda. This is also suggested by another fact: with a curious lapsus it is said that the statute of the Foundation will be approved by decree of the President of the Republic, on a proposal of the President of the Council of Ministers, heard the Ministers of Labour and Social Policy. ♪ Sodals ♪ Gentlemen, we're talking here about a client shop, which has nothing to do with the virtues of the third sector. We are talking about an electoral instrument, an instrument to move capital. From this text I do not understand what will prevent this foundation from financing, for example, the projects of the foundation of Matteo Renzi. I do not see how discretion can be restrained. A report on the real social and employment impact achieved will have to be presented, but it will be easy to demonstrate and object, because there is nothing: this is not even a delegation, it is a rule and it is so vague and inconsistent that thinking wrong is not only possible, it becomes almost a prudential duty. I would remind you that this text was submitted to the Commission and then withdrawn. We now find it as an amendment when, because of its nature as a rule, perhaps it deserved to be tabled in good time and to be discussed in a less hasty way than is allowed to be done today. And perhaps, this text also deserved to be discussed by examining a bill and not a delegated law, which eventually becomes simply a Trojan horse to convey partisan political interests. I have heard so many colleagues outrage at this and promise battle, but I do not see the white heat I would have expected and regret it. I continue to say that this is not only a missed opportunity to do good to the country, but it becomes a betrayal of intentions and, therefore, I call on the House to vote against this amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u34	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we shall be voting against Amendment 9.0.0100, which seeks to insert an additional article, for several reasons. Firstly, we consider the establishment of the Fondazione Italia sociale completely unrelated to the object of the draft law in question, which concerns the third sector. It is clear that no one could have forbidden the Government to set up yet another public foundation, with the aim of raising funds, especially among the giants of finance, but this is a different operation from the third sector and the discussion carried out these days. One is a philanthropic solidarity operation, the other is a solidarity operation, characterized by the active participation of citizens. We have said this in all our discussions: if there is one element that characterizes the third sector today and therefore distinguishes it from other particular forms - hence also our opposition to social enterprise - it is precisely the active participation of citizens, who in a collective way participate in solidarity, cultural or recreational activities. And that's another matter. There is therefore a strong cultural difference between active solidarity, with the direct participation of citizens, and what we could define as a great operation of philanthropic charity. It is a profound cultural difference and we would have preferred - as we said earlier - that the Government had not presented this rule within the bill, but that it had made a different choice, perhaps intervening through an autonomous legislative proposal. This is also because, by including the institution of the Italian Social Foundation within the draft law under consideration - even if in this case public resources amount to only one million euros - it is clear that the operation that the Government puts in place, in terms of political commitment, is to collect most of the resources, even from private individuals, in favor of the Italian Social Foundation. Let us therefore see in this foundation a sort of Trojan horse, which surely risks making weaker - I would not like to use the verb "kill" - the whole third sector and drain most of the resources. There is also a problem of merit, which we want to stress once again. If this was the main idea of the Government and the Presidency of the Council, which also has a specific task to deal with the Italian Social Foundation, we do not understand why we had to discover the intention to give life to this important institution only a week ago, with the presentation of the amendment to the Assembly, without going through a debate in the Commission, at least in the Senate, since the House of Deputies never discussed the establishment of a public foundation. From the point of view of the method, therefore, we have a great deal of doubt and, for these reasons, we are voting against it. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u36	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u37	Mr Warra (PD). I disagree with the Group that I shall not be able to vote in favour of this amendment. In relation to what I said earlier in support of the sub-amendment I tabled, the fact that the proposal not to convey public resources through this new foundation was not accepted does not allow me to vote in favour of the amendment. [[Applause from Senator Endrizzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u38	This is an alleged dissent, Senator Guerra.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u41	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, the question arises here whether the egg or the chicken comes first. It seems that this delegation law has been made to measure in order to put such an amendment within it. An amendment that we considered immediately, already in the first version which was then withdrawn from the Commission, as unreasonable and had nothing to do with the objectives set out in the draft law under consideration. This amendment is intended to set up yet another coach, or public slum, always financed with public taxpayers' money, without clearly and explicitly defining tasks and functions. This amendment delegates to a ministerial decree the approval of the statute of the Foundation, without setting precise principles and guiding criteria and it is also expected to allocate one million euros for the initial allocation for the year 2016, a figure not small. The freedom to act as you wish for those who will drive this carriage is surely impressive. The password will surely be: contracts. We are, of course, against it, as we have already said in the Commission. It is an amendment that finds no reason to exist in a law like this. There will probably also be a problem with the ability of associations to be competitive, because with such a foundation the competition capacities of the other ONLUS are clearly diminished. For this reason, we are absolutely opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u42	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.0100, tabled by the Government, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments tabled to Article 10.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u43	The opinion was opposed to Amendments 10,200 and 10,201. I call on the authors to withdraw amendment 10,202 (text 2) as it is incorporated into the rapporteur's amendment 5,274, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u44	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u45	I would ask Senator Zeller, first signatory to Amendment 10,202 (text 2), if he accepts the call for withdrawal. ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us move on to Amendment 10,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,200, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 10,201, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,201, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments tabled to Article 11.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u46	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u47	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u48	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,200. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11,200, tabled by Senators Molinari and Vacciano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11,201, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 11,202, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 200.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u49	We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u50	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment Tit.200, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u53	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, according to the latest available data, over 6 million volunteers and 300,000 third sector bodies operate in Italy. The service centers for volunteering are 74 (72 those participating in the national coordination) and in 2013 offered services to 43,000 organizations and 23,364 citizens, promoted 5,576 interventions in favor of volunteering and involved as many as 154,492 students. In addition, 29,708 hours of training and 12,981 guidance and counselling services were provided. To them today, this bill must give answers and should have given more of it than the amendments that have been adopted so far. We believe that the expectations of those who work in the world of volunteering in relation to a reform of the third sector, which has long been required also by virtue of changed social needs, have been largely ignored. Despite the changes made to the House, the text is still largely lacking in the guiding principles and criteria necessary for the correct, unambiguous and non-arbitrary identification of third sector entities, which clearly trace their distinction with respect to undertakings and institutions with lucrative purposes in accordance with the principles of legal certainty and fair competition. This, in order to ensure that tax concessions and reliefs are granted only to organisations that pursue exclusively the aims of promoting the collective good, raising the levels of active citizenship, cohesion and social protection. But it is all the more not possible today that the draft delegation law is presented to this Assembly with the final surprise, the one that has aroused the concerns of the last hours, namely the introduction, through the amendment, of the Fondazione Italia sociale, which has been corrected, compared to the initial forecast, with the amendments discussed until a few minutes ago. The excellent rapporteur, Mr Lepri, has tried to soften and reduce the scope of that amendment and to improve the draft law overall. However, there are still a number of negative points, which relate both to the method and to the merit of the reform. In the method one cannot fail to note that the confrontation with the varied and multifaceted world of the third sector has certainly been compressed in the times and quality of the intercourse and has not taken due account of all the proposals and suggestions coming from the real actors of the field, to which, then, this reform is really dedicated. The bill highlights particular defects also in the merit of the choices made by the Government and finished in the previous passage to the House. Today, this House is in danger of losing a valuable opportunity to provide more precise and concrete answers to the thousands of volunteers who expect to see the principles and values that inspire their work recognised and supported. Yet, it was from the National Forum of the Third Sector that there was a strong demand for a reform shared with its target audiences (for this reason I spoke before about problems of method that concerned a greater comparison). Several corrective measures were to be introduced into the draft law under discussion. (17.45) (Followed by Mr Bruni). First of all, as I said earlier, it was necessary to define and outline the hypothesis of that social foundation as outlined in the amendment, albeit amended with the sub-amendments. At an extremely critical stage for associationism, linked above all to the difficulty of finding adequate resources for the realization of projects with social aims, certainly the choice of establishing by law a foundation, through also a start-up, could create a stage of disorientation, and so it was during the debate, first in the Commission and then in the Chamber. This has given rise to a number of doubts. The risks of this operation could be the opposite of the other: the first, to think that the foundation could attract a considerable flow of private donations, also because a foundation that was born under the aegis of the Government, or in any case of a parliamentary majority which is - not necessarily the current one, but also a possible future majority other than the current one - can certainly drug the participation of the subjects to the same foundation. The opposite risk is to create yet another body for the benefit of a few elected, financed with public money, which can feed the ranks of those useless bodies that politics should do without inventing in these times of crisis. Still others can be the criticalities of the reform to be highlighted in this last glimpse of debate. In the draft law there is no reference to a simplification of the procedure for acquiring the status of non-governmental organisation, as well as to a revision of the system for the management of property confiscated from the Mafia, as it is believed that the Government must adopt a greater rationalization of the management of the same property. One of the major problems remains to allow also newly formed associations and managed by young people the possibility to access the acquisition of the good in order to start a non-profit activity. There is still a strong confusion between the stable and prevailing business activity and the activities aimed solely at self-financing of associations, which represent the true form of self-supporting them. It is also given little importance to the participatory profile which, instead - as voluntary associations rightly support - is the driving force behind the activation of citizens and a prerequisite for the whole of the third sector. The bill also differentiates the status of volunteer not on the basis of the activities carried out, but in relation to the type of organisation in which it operates, thus creating a difference between A-series volunteers and B-series volunteers. The introduction of the National Council of the Third Sector may represent a positive innovation as a place of meeting and liaison with the institutions, but it must not categorically overlap with the bodies representing the Third Sector. We are not convinced, however, by the parties concerned with the distribution of profits, the issue of subsidiarity through the involvement of citizens, businesses, investors and non-profit sector operators and a different participation in taxation. Here too there would be much more to say. We believe that a complete review must be carried out through a punctual verification of all entities/associations registered in the 5 per thousand register. Thousands of associations registered in this register, managed by the Revenue Agency, earn, as we know, proceeds from the five per thousand without actually proving the re-utilization of these proceeds for social benefit (it would open up a whole discussion on the actual usefulness of the proceeds of the five per thousand). In addition, the provision of funds should be made more efficient, but still limited. The aims set out in the draft delegation law were all acceptable overall; we said, in fact, in several interventions, that we wanted a reform of the third sector and that we shared the original ratio on the need for reform of the third sector. However, many of these expectations have been betrayed. This reform was intended to make the volunteer service centers fully clear and reorganise, whose solidarity function is changed and even in some cases distorted, creating a confusion of roles. It had to serve to simplify, support and promote volunteering, protecting it from abuse, bad practices and illegal infiltration; many of these things have only been announced and have not materialized. For these reasons, although we reiterate - as I said - the sharing of the need for reform, we nevertheless reaffirm the negative points made so far and note that there has been in limine mortis, with the latest amendments, some signs of attention, also for a sub-amendment by our Group. But on the whole, having given ample expression of non-sharing with respect to all the articles of the draft law, we can only confirm our overall vote against, while appreciating the efforts made during the debate and the examination of the amendments. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u56	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is already a surprise that this measure has not been trusted. As we have had the opportunity to explain in the illustration of our prejudices, the bill of which we conclude the examination had different profiles of unconstitutionality, as we have repeated several times. The exercise of the legislative function cannot be delegated to the Government other than with determination of guiding principles and criteria and only for limited time and for defined objects, thus recited Article 76 of the Constitution. But this too went to the cavalry. In view of the complexity of the matter dealt with by the delegation, the principles and guiding criteria underlying this measure have appeared to us and still appear to us so broad and general that it presupposes the actual impossibility of respecting the delegation law, producing in fact an excess of delegation which, if submitted to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, clearly with eyes of a certain kind, would certainly and inevitably lead to a declaration of illegality. This draft law provides for inadequate solutions, such as centralising competences at state level, establishing a single register and entrusting the Agency with revenue and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to monitor the progress of activities, without, moreover, setting up any specific supervisory body. It also contains uneven interventions in relation to the context of the reform, which involves the transformation of civil service into universal civil service, without declaring what is actually meant by this adjective. It is the mere enunciation of a signifier, without any significant univocal meaning being associated with it. The provisions in the civil service appear to us detached from the context of the draft law delegation and non-organic. To confirm this, where the general criteria and guiding principles are indicated, no reference is made to the subject of the revision of the civil service, nor are the articles 52 and 11 of the Constitution, which represent the main structure of the institution. If the Government then assumes to exercise this delegation in white to regulate perhaps the participation of non-EU citizens in this community, it clearly violates, in our opinion, the respect of national sovereignty and the very concept of identity that must instead characterize an institution such as that of civil service, born from the desire to establish an alternative system to compulsory leverage. The forecast of a single register of the third sector, in order to favor its full knowledge throughout the national territory, in addition to appearing in contrast to the respect of the prerogatives of the Regions, also according to the constitutional discipline provided by Title V, does not define the legal nature of the registration and what is the subjective scope of the entities obliged to register. We would have expected, Mr President, a reform which, on the one hand, would restore to the third sector the dignity of its mission, in accordance with the principle of horizontal subsidiarity, to absorb the gap of state intervention on issues of social impact and, on the other hand, to ensure control and surveillance of the degeneration that over time have invested the world of non-profit. As far as civil service is concerned, we are even more perplexed. Perhaps not everyone knows that for at least seven years more than 90% of civil service agencies have been monitored, managed and controlled not by the central state but by the regions. We are talking about all local authorities, because civil service, as many so-called experts say, is carried out in at least 50% of the cases in local authorities and by the myriad of regional and sub-regional non-profit organisations. It seems absurd to us, among other things, that the state is deceiving itself to be able to control, from some desk of some department of the Presidency of the Council, thousands of local realities, to know in what reality there is real need to activate civil service positions. Control is done on the territory, working on it, and in this the Regions are certainly the best and most suitable instrument; otherwise it will happen what has happened in the past, i.e. a waste of public resources. In the recent past there have been dozens of parliamentary questions that have denounced abuses, waste and omissions in the small world of civil service, almost always by the hands of realities that theoretically had to be controlled by some subject sitting at some desk of the Roman palaces. Maintaining the current framework of delegation to the regions is good for the state, for the territories of our community, but above all it is good for our children, but all this, even if we have torn our clothes to indicate it in several amendments, has not been accepted. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Madam President, we have done a great deal of work and we have tabled a number of amendments on the subject. There is one issue that will always come to be the focus of the debate on this law, and it is linked to procurement. This will be the leitmotiv that will bring this law to be revised very soon. No-profit has become a backbone in our country over time: 4 million volunteers and 10 million workers (including the induced) are a profitable example of protecting culture and social services. A reform was necessary: we have been talking about this for a few years now, because this document has been going on for a while. Surely a reform was needed that should have made the world of associations more agile and modern, which today is still a heterogeneous magnum sea. But the law of delegation that the government is imposing on the Parliament of reform has only the name, because it seems that in some passages the non-profit is transformed into profit. We would not like the point of arrival to be always the word 'contracts', as I mentioned earlier; not to mention the unfair consequence that some cooperatives and ONLUS could do towards other companies enjoying preferential taxation; and you will have noticed this in the amendments that we have tabled. We have also presented a number of them on the subject of social service open to the issue of immigrants, which the Government will probably deviously implement, and our concern sees us absolutely opposed to this eventual subterfuge. Let us consider the subtraction of civil service competence to the regions: a challenge to the requests made by the State-Regions Conference in order to organize the service at local level. This is also a matter that has certainly left us perplexed. Madam President, I would not like the Easter break to put the difficulties that the government and the majority had in this House in the background last week. Undersecretary Pizzetti requested and obtained from the Shareholders' Meeting the provision of Article 6 and, consequently, the vote on Article 7. The government was apostrophated as a mess. The measure will go to the history of this House for the official entry by a majority of another Group, not without controversy. This is a solidaristic and social work. Third sector, third system, nonprofit, non-profit, non-governmental and non-business are some of the expressions and ways to identify all this reality that, within our socio-economic system, is located in the middle of the state and regions. We have also raised another problem: we live in the presence of terrorism, with winds of war, controlled immigration, economic crisis, useless and suitable government measures only to place some flags in the chessboard of useless things to do and we wondered, in parallel with this: where are an industrial plan, on energy, a strategy for Europe? None of this, and then we hoped that this law would be good. It could have re-launched a third area that is vitally important and to which too many questions are left to which the State should provide otherwise. I come from a region where volunteering is ABC for many people of being in a complex, articulated and above all sparkling society in all respects. I think maybe she missed another chance to make a law. In the 11 articles we tried to put a little 'of everything and this certainly did not help above all the position taken by our Group on the amendment that concerns the Italian Social Foundation. It is possible that after two years that this text turns, which has also been modified in the Chamber, you will arrive at an amendment of the Government - but it is the good Renzi who puts his hand - that commission precisely the Fondazione Italia sociale, that you do not understand well what it will do? Someone compared it to the French foundations. Let us not make unnecessary comparisons: France is another issue, another story, another system and has another volunteer. In our Group's view, this is absolutely not a comparison to be made. We have seen, unfortunately in our sad reality, as behind collaboration and wanting to help others, there is simply a desire to take advantage and gain on the shoulders of several subjects. It also makes us especially that this issue has not been taken into consideration by the Government. What really surprised us and saddened us was that the response of the central state and the main party responsible for that worm of Mafia Capital was to bring everything back to the centre and in the hands of the usual ministerial leader of control. It is clear that we are not here and the vote of the North League is certainly and firmly against it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u57	We greet the students and students of the Liceo classico, linguistico e delle scienze umani statale (Classical, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum, Lyceum. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u60	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Madam President, the third sector has become increasingly central in the Italian economy and society over the last twenty years. Today, non-profits are assigned essential tasks on work, health care, housing and culture. With decreasing public expenditure and a hypertrophic but inefficient state, the performance of these tasks becomes crucial in many respects. The objective of this reform is ambitious, because it plans to build a new model of participatory welfare, based on an enlarged social governance to enhance the growth and employment potential of the social economy and the activities carried out by the third sector which, not by chance, is the only sector that has managed to grow in the years of the crisis. Therefore, a serious reordering of the rules governing it can create new job opportunities, finally making social enterprise take off. Ten years ago the Berlusconi Government will launch a series of measures for the third sector - I am thinking of the introduction of the benefit of 5 per thousand and the so-called law of the good Samaritan - to arrive at the measures on innovative start-ups with a social vocation. All these measures went in the right direction, because they put third sector associations and social enterprises in the hands of the opportunity to be protagonists of their destiny and put social enterprises in full capacity within the third sector. However, I think it is useful to ask why such a good law has produced less positive effects than we could have hoped. The first reason must be found in the impossibility of distributing profits. It is in fact illogical to think that traditional profit companies (such as public limited companies or limited liability companies) can also give up any form of remuneration for capital. It has also proved wrong to prevent all forms of VAT facilitation and other advantages which the ONLUS scheme allows and which, on the other hand, social enterprises cannot adopt. Well, this reform, by removing these constraints, finally gives full citizenship to the concept of social enterprise in the third sector, introducing the possibility also for limited liability companies or public limited companies to pay the capital exactly up to the limit provided for cooperatives with prevailing mutuality, essentially to maintain the real value of capital. In the draft law, this delegation is, in short, an attempt to broaden the concept of finance and, consequently, the concept of profit. The fact that those who put money can receive dividends calibrated to the size and reality of a sector, together so atypical and so central, can represent an element that can guide the flow of investments towards non-profit and also represents an attempt to go in the direction of responsible use of money by citizens, businesses and investors who must be helped with tax incentive mechanisms. The long and complex debate that took place in the Assembly on Article 6 was therefore in some surreal parts, because social enterprise was included in the third sector ten years ago by a centre-right government. Well, here we value the reality of the third sector allowing it to mutual organizational forms typical of companies. It is undeniable that so far the world of non-profit has often seen good intentions rewarding the need for efficiency and it is equally undeniable that the advantages, even of fiscal type, have very often led to ambiguous cases, in which non-profit was the form, but not the substance. Is there a risk that these ambiguities will become structural with the new legislation? It seems to us the opposite, namely that the measure at issue is finally clear, also because the constraint is for everyone that of the prevailing mutuality, thus allowing to eliminate over-utilizations that would have distorted the vocation of the third sector. The real concepts on which we must base our assessment of this measure are therefore essentially two: the measurable effectiveness of the actions carried out by associations in the third sector and the fact of transparency. From this point of view, perhaps this is a missed opportunity, as it seems to have come time to cut ancient umbilical cords and old political collateralisms with a part of the world of cooperatives that has benefited often badly used advantages, which have ended up damaging the entire world of the third sector. I am referring not only to the most striking example, namely the Mafia Capital scandal, but also to the bad management of the identification and expulsion centres (CIE) or to the local licenses disguised by ONLUS. Not surprisingly, the world of socialism has entered into the scope of the National Anti-corruption Authority. In addition, the delegation under consideration is too broad for the Government and, moreover, little financed, because the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is charged with a mass of new tasks, but the appropriate resources are not allocated to it. Another critical point is the absence of the figure of a third-sector guarantor authority with extensive supervisory and guarantee powers over institutions, custody procedures and expenses. The monitoring and control functions are assigned to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy itself. However, without the economic resources needed to achieve this objective, controls are likely to remain a mere statement of principle. Similarly, universal civil service seems not sufficiently supported. Finally, the Government presented an amendment in the first Commission and then in the Assembly which in fact establishes the IRI of the third sector with the Fondazione Italia sociale. It is a real IRI of the third sector, a kind of filter between those in Italy who deal with social and those who want to finance it. A subject of a private nature that becomes public direction can only raise doubts and the Government's amendment shows a strongly centralised approach, a clear tendency to dirigism. Compared to the text presented in the Commission, state contributions have disappeared, but public actors have remained and this contradicts what the rapporteur said, who said that if we want to encourage donation by individuals, businesses and citizens, it would be unreasonable to allow the use of resources also by public entities. On this point, therefore, the margins of ambiguity remain many, and it is absolutely essential that the decree establishing the foundation passes from Parliament and provides for an objective assessment of the social impact of its initiatives. However, on the whole - as I have already said - the draft delegation law under consideration goes in the right direction and, therefore, will have the support of the AL-A Group. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u63	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce this explanation of vote by referring to a familiar anecdote. During these Easter holidays my second 17-year-old daughter told me that, after high school, she would like to enroll in a faculty called "social economy." I tried to convince her that the economy is one and that every economic enterprise has a social connotation, also the laboratory of a start-up of young students, as well as a large multinational. Anyone who gives work, produces goods or services for the citizens, anyone who strives every day to keep up with an increasingly fierce competition in an increasingly globalized world, anyone who tries to emerge aiming at excellence plays a social role, because it contributes to the development of the territory and of a community, both this understanding as its neighborhood, is understood as an international market. Therefore every economic enterprise has a social function, because profit is not the dung of the devil and because those who undertake, if they do it according to the rules and the law, give employment and allow the circulation of resources. Having said that, what is a law that protects social enterprise? In 2006, this social enterprise label was intended to award a kind of recognition of merit to those companies that, with any legal status, operated in certain sectors considered to be of social benefit and for this reason could also use voluntary work, involving people with disabilities and giving up the traditional sharing of profits that represents the core business of entrepreneurial activity. Ten years have passed since then and I believe that the experience - colleagues before me have referred to facts of the news to all known - confirms us what Senator Luigi Marino expressed very clearly in this House when he said that social enterprise in our country was basically a failure because of its ambiguous and bipolar nature. So, what were we legislators supposed to do on this occasion? I believe that we should have made a distinction even more by ensuring that social enterprise is actually non-profit-making. In other words, we should have squeezed until we tried to undo that kind of grey area which represented the failure and also the soil of culture of evil. This would have allowed to safeguard in its true dimension and in its true essence volunteering, which is an integral part of our cultural fabric and our traditions, and is indeed a heritage - we can say it today, in the heart of a long crisis that has lasted longer than the world wars of the last century - without which our country would have struggled to stand, and whose importance has become even greater in the difficult situation we have been through. In times of economic crisis and of increasing availability of public funds, the third sector has played and plays a complementary, if not supplementary, role in providing welfare and essential services to the citizens, especially with regard to the weakest sections of society. In short, non-profit is the place where the principle of horizontal subsidiarity, protected by Article 118 of our Constitutional Charter, takes place. That is precisely why we should have preserved its spirit, and I believe, Madam President, that this bill has gone in the very opposite direction. Instead of making the most of volunteering in its essence, rather than starting from the fact that the distinctive element of the social economy is the lack of profit and the reinvestment of all profits, we went objectively to widen that grey area and did so mainly by renouncing our prerogatives as legislators. We did this when we thought we could solve the problem by giving a delegation to the Government, even worse a deliberately generic, confused, art-built delegation to leave the Commission the maximum freedom to act as it sees most useful, perhaps even as it considers most electorally convenient. In short, a new force and, if you like, a new backsliding of Parliament. We have withdrawn, we have widened the grey area also by openly saying that we do not want to specify that these activities are non-profit-making. On the contrary, in the delegation we said that a redistribution of profits is allowed, perhaps to guarantee some place within these structures. And in the face of all this we believe that we can save our soul by saying that administrators must respect the constraint of assigning profits mainly - I emphasize - to the achievement of social objectives? We are naive if we think that citizens do not realize what lies behind such general and deliberately ambiguous expressions. And as well as naive, we are also hypocrites, because in this way we are offending both those who do healthy business, and those who do real volunteering. Not only that: according to some of the proposals contained in Article 7, we would also like to exclude companies with fake social purposes from normal inspection activities, to which our entrepreneurs are subject every day. Madam President, even in the background to this is the universal civil service, established by Article 8 of the draft law under consideration to serve the nation not in arms and then perhaps have an advantage in a competition to enter into a cooperative or a ONLUS. In this case, demagogy is indeed likely to lead to ridicule, because, Mr President, resistance not in arms, in history, has been made by unarmed citizens, who have fought against dictatorships, in the squares and without having done any universal civil service. It was made by those citizens forced by wars to defend the internal front, in the last century and even in the present one. Faced with this, we are frankly witnessing a shameful hypocrisy, which marks even more and once again the loss of even the cultural West, in the face of the conflicts that we truly live in this century. Civil service not in arms was done by that archaeologist who, in Palmira, lost his life to save our civilization. [[Applause]] Civil service has not been done in arms by those who do not succumb to the demagogy of a low-alloy pacifism, but they realize the conflicts and risks that our freedom is taking. That, Madam President, is all very general, very hypocritical and very superficial. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this law will make it even more difficult for our citizens to get up every morning in order to raise the shutters of their shops or factories and to guarantee jobs, salaries and future jobs for their families and their employees, among thousands of economic and bureaucratic difficulties, which are still too high a tax burden, if they discover that, thanks to what we have done in this House, their neighbour will be able to benefit under a fake social label and will benefit from tax and social security benefits, perhaps economic incentives, and probably also from impunity in the event of breaches of safety or workers' rights. Madam President, this is going to be very social, but we do not like it, and that is why we are going to vote against this draft law. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and Senators Bignami and D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u66	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the draft law delegates for the reform of the third sector finally comes to an end, after a long debate and a detailed discussion, which lasted for months and months the examination. The proposal that we are going to vote on now is certainly an organic response - although not entirely exhaustive - to the needs of volunteering and associationism, which have always been realities that respond to principles of social solidarity and equity, through services and functions, which contribute to forming a widespread and participatory welfare system. There was a particular need for an organic and unified regulatory framework, which was capable of providing a simplified and at the same time strengthened reference and restoring capacity for development to the world of volunteering, nonprofit, foundations and social enterprises. With the vote of the Senate, the indispensable relationship between the institutions and what we can define as a broad and effective set of solidarity networks is renewed within a dynamic and flexible framework. In terms of substance, the exercise of delegation is increasingly seen as a stage in the legislative process. The definition and approval of the guiding principles are indeed a binding expression of representation and parliamentary will, but they refer the decisive condition to the adoption of the implementing decrees so that the process of forming the law does not stop. The approval of the delegation law is - so to speak - the qualified and propulsive political act, on the basis of the principle of autonomy of the Parliament that deliberates and delegates, but whose validity and effectiveness of the legislation depend on the actual content and timing of the relative implementing decrees. My concern is that the commitments that have been made, certainly considerable and numerous - I think, for example, the announced tax review, perhaps a real ad hoc code that finally takes into account the particularities of the sector, but also the reform of the national civil service - are actually adopted within the appropriate time, so that the principles and guidelines of the delegation can be implemented as effectively as possible. My call, therefore, is - and it could not be otherwise - to proceed to a rapid elaboration and definition of the decrees relating to the guidelines approved with the vote on the draft law delegation, without having to wait for the time limit of the twelve months expected. Indeed, the sector has been waiting for years for concrete signs of novelty. The Government, also on the basis of the amendment tabled by the rapporteur, then knows how to distinguish and recognize the real volunteering and its social validity, from realities that, in particular in the organized volunteering that takes advantage of public resources, appear alien to the reasons and social role of the third sector. There are three constitutional reasons for the reform of the third sector which, in my view, must be at the forefront. The first reason is that a simplification of the regulatory framework, within a more binding and homogeneous legislation, increases opportunities and rights; opportunities of the world of volunteering and associationism to have alternative legislation to the exclusively bureaucratic constraints that today make it difficult, if not impossible, the life of associations and organizations that work in volunteering and nonprofit. This introduces the basis for growth under sustainable conditions in the third sector; conditions that represent a strengthening of citizenship rights, and therefore participation, in a welfare system that, both economically and culturally, is characterised by the fundamental objective of including and not excluding citizens, according to a more targeted approach and offer, almost tailored and non-standardized, and - as the bill reiterates - with particular attention to the people and even the most disadvantaged workers in need of protection. It is also for these reasons that, in my parliamentary commitment, I have always considered the third sector as a priority: not only as an integrated system of social and cultural services, but as a possibility of response, acceptance of demands and expectations which, otherwise, would have an unfairly marginal role or, ultimately, not recognized in our economic and social system. I am thinking of the public-private relationship, in favour of a more complex regulation of social and economic players, which can support, within the available resources, a network of safeguards otherwise denied. The second reason is in the parliamentary commitment that I have had on these issues. Our proposals, in part presented during the examination of the law of stability or other relevant measures of the Government, beyond the adverse motivations related only to financial coverage, had exactly the objective of reducing constraints; to give appropriate attention to the flexible models and, for this reason, so widely present on the territory; to valorize the research and programming of the possible compatibilitys in order to ensure a framework of perspective, and not exclusively contingent, to the forms of social and economic support guaranteed by volunteering or associationism. Unfortunately, I have not received much attention from the Government so far, but I can say that many of the needs of the non-profit sector have been underestimated, probably because they are unfairly marginalized. The third reason is that the model of governance and coexistence represented by the mountain territories - Trentino in my case - is an example of how much the third sector has and can have a history and a strategic role from the economic, social and cultural point of view. Volunteering and associationism were the realities that guaranteed the most opportunities for access to the economy and culture, because of the widespread spread in the territory, which is a resource of the distinctive character of the third sector and its uniqueness, as is the reality of Trentino and its mountain countries. It is no coincidence that the bill also provides for the possibility of promoting the culture of volunteering in schools. That is why I have tabled two agendas in particular, which have been accepted, with some changes, by the rapporteur and by the Government, and I thank them for that. The first - and on this the undersecretary Bobba has already activated itself and I thank him - aims to implement a total rationalization of the modalities of request of participation in the part of 5 per thousand of the IRPEF to be borne by ONLUS, social cooperatives, amateur sports organizations, non-governmental organizations, voluntary organizations, social promotion organizations, and to evaluate, if necessary, the possibility of healing previous situations in relation to requests concerning 5 per thousand for which, given the complexity of the system, the presentation of the paper request provided for by the rules in force has been omitted. The second agenda is intended to provide a clarifying interpretation of technical staff, including those who perform non-professional services for the performance of the auctioning activity. I hope that the Government will give an interpretation as soon as possible, so as not to block this sector, which is vital for the cultural growth of our territories, especially of the most isolated. The same criteria and objectives for the growth of voluntary associations, such as ONLUS, were inspired by my proposals to extend the exemption from stamp and registration tax; to provide, below EUR 30,000, for exemption from tax for amateur associations, first of all for pro-locals; to establish exemption from the payment of copyright for voluntary organizations and social promotion associations which are responsible for the organisation of initiatives for purely beneficial purposes; the possibility of tax deduction of the costs for courses of artistic training in favour of young students in the musical or choreutic field. These are proposals which recall and reproduce the contents of a draft law presented in this legislature at my first signature. I take note of the constraints resulting from the financial compatibility that today prevent them from being accepted in the delegation measure, but I think it is important that these proposals are taken up in other measures of the Government. Mr Bobba's willingness to engage in an open discussion during the examination of the delegation, which I appreciated, as well as the rapporteur, Mr Lepri, during the thorough and careful work in the Commission, gives us hope. By declaring the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE's vote in favour, I hope that the third sector, in all its aspects, will finally get the attention it deserves. This is a world that has all too often been forgotten and that must finally find the right dignity, for the people it manages to involve, for the many examples of responsibility and sensitivity it provides, every day and everywhere, especially to young people, to help them become active citizens, but also for the professionalism it has achieved, for the economies it has managed to achieve and for the jobs it has created. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Lepri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u69	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, we come after a long time, including in the Commission, to the final vote on the draft law on the delegation of the reform of the third sector, which - I say this quite clearly - has been expected for a long time. It was, in fact, clear to everyone that there was an absolute need to create new legislation that would rearrange and harmonise the various laws and regulations in the sector that had stratified over time, and not just for this reason. I also believe - above all this was the conviction that has guided us in the work of the last few weeks and months - that it would have been absolutely necessary to do a job not only of reordering and harmonization, but also of real relaunch of the whole world of the third sector, which is what the various associations ask us to do. I would like to remind you here of the data, which perhaps, even in the debate these days, have not been kept well in mind. We are talking about almost 300,000 associations, cooperatives, voluntary organizations, ONLUS and many employees. We are talking, among other things, of 600,000 direct employees, 300,000 outside: a world that has made a huge contribution to the development of our country over the years, a fundamental instrument - I want to remind you here - of great social inclusion. And, above all, the element that perhaps has been forgotten and put aside is that the third sector has been committed to creating new citizenships, new rights, new civic awareness; it has been at the side of many excluded. At the same time, it has created an economy, certainly with problems and contradictions, but in a world where the welfare system - you know it better than I do, President - has become increasingly weakened in recent years. In this regard, we should rethink and integrate the reordering of the third sector with serious work, which is not addressed, on our welfare system. Our concerns in dealing with this reform have also been in this direction, often because we have noticed mechanisms that tended to approach to direct this world not so much in the integration of welfare but even in a mechanism of real substitution (we will see it on the question of the foundation). Why did I make this premise? Because the things I said would make it necessary to put a certain kind of work into play. In fact, let me say that, given the time that has passed since it was presented - it has been about two years - such an important work of reordering and reform could absolutely be dealt with without delegation. I say this because, unfortunately, we cannot forget all the delegations we have had up to now and the very serious difficulties we have encountered, with respect to the implementation of the principles and objectives indicated in the delegation, within the delegated decrees. This is a basic defect which also remains in the measure under consideration. In many cases, however, the indications and objectives - some of which may even be shared - are general in nature and, therefore, our concerns remain absolutely intact. This means - and I also say this to the rapporteur - that we will continue to follow this measure very precisely and precisely, precisely and especially in the part which will concern the draft legislative decrees. I would like to emphasize this reasoning because we have seen ourselves reject a number of amendments, such as those on the foundation (i.e. on the government amendment), which simply asked Parliament to report on its activities. This is a huge concern for us, because in the past three years we have seen, unfortunately, an extreme expansion of the use of the delegation for which it is legislated here or with decrees-laws followed by trust or with the system of delegation. There would have been a great deal of willingness in this House, and even more so in the Commission - but I believe the whole of Parliament - to adopt a text that really went into this matter by abandoning the system of delegation. Are we no longer able to put reforms in place in these parliamentary classrooms? I believe that we are still able to do so, and I think that continuous delegations are not good for our legislation either. The work done in the Commission has made it possible to improve the text. We have always stressed - for example - how the third sector is made up of participation, self-organization and, therefore, how the associative, participatory and democratic element is much stronger. In this respect the text of the Chamber was very lacking where in the work done in the Senate this element was absolutely recovered. I also want to say a few words - I have heard arguments which I do not agree with at all - on Article 8, on which we, for example, voted in favour. The restoration of universal civil service has even been presented as an escamotage in order to be able to have preference in public competitions, thus completely undermining the experience of the past years of civil service. It has formed many young generations by making them understand what the unarmed defence of our homeland and state means and what it means to refer to constitutional values. This I wanted to say very clearly, because, among the many elements for which it is necessary to criticize this measure, I do not think that we should use a type of rhetoric that I have also found in the intervention of Senator Quagliariello, who - let me stress this - continues to speak of instrumental pacifism, ideological approach and opportunist pacifism. That's what I had to say, and I want you to stay on the record. Disowning what has been and what might be the value of universal civil service is a mistake, I believe, precisely for our constitutional values. There are, however, issues in this draft law that we do not agree with at all. I shall now come to the question of Article 6. As far as the House's text is concerned, further elements of clarification have been introduced, I do not think that the necessary work has been done on clarity and net division between the concept of social enterprise and the concept of enterprise which aims at the free search for profit. I believe that we should not have written 'predominantly', but that we should be very clear on that point, saying and saying very clearly that all profits must be re-used for social purposes, i.e. for the statutory purposes of the undertaking itself. Perhaps it would have been better to exclude Article 6 from this measure, because it does not favour real social enterprises if we continue to allow the element of profit and profit-sharing, albeit small and small, to be included in the social enterprise. I believe that this was the most critical element and I want to stress that. The last question concerns the introduction by the Government of an aspect that had absolutely nothing to do with it. As my colleague Petraglia said, the foundation for philanthropic purposes could be done elsewhere; I think and continue to believe that it should not find citizenship within this measure. There are two dangers. Firstly, as we shall see, it will play a negative role from the point of view of dumping, precisely as regards draining all the resources available to the associations, at a difficult time. We have all said this: why did we have to intervene in order to relaunch the third sector? Because we are in a difficult situation from the social and economic point of view and therefore we did not have to make unfair competition to small and medium-sized associations that live from the contribution of private individuals. The other danger - which is all inherent, although the text has been amended in relation to what was presented in the Commission - is that this foundation even takes up resources, redistributes them for its own purposes and, among other things, risks once again being a substitute for welfare; exactly the opposite of what, as we have said from the outset, had to be the aim of reordering and serious reform of the third sector. It is also a foundation that is born, however, with resources that are public, because, in order to create it, resources are allocated. I believe that this element of the foundation has created further problems, some of which were already present in the design of the delegation bill. We have therefore tried to make our contribution; we have certainly achieved some improvement on the text that came from the House, but in our opinion there are still some very critical elements that I have highlighted. That is why we can only abstain. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u72	TORRISI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Undersecretary Bobba, what we have discussed and which we will approve today is an important measure that has long been expected in Italy. The draft law delegates on the reform of the so-called third sector, approved almost two years ago by the Council of Ministers, is finally ready to be voted by this House. This is a measure that instructs the Government to carry out a revision of the legislation on volunteering, social cooperation, non-profit associationism, foundations and social enterprises. As we know, the third sector concept derives from the consideration of the existence, in the economic and social system, of a first sector (i.e. the State) and a second sector (i.e. the market). It encompasses the whole of productive activities that do not fall within the sphere of traditional capitalist enterprise, because they do not seek profit, nor in that of public administrations; that is, it embraces all those realities that within our socio-economic system are halfway between the State and the market. More simply, the actors in the third sector operate in social assistance, health, culture, sport, international cooperation and volunteering; they are realities that have a private legal nature (think of social cooperatives, social promotion associations, voluntary and non-governmental organisations, the ONLUS) that promote their non-profit activities. The third sector has experienced steady growth over the years, despite the last European economic crisis that we know very well. ISTAT has registered over 300,000 non-profit organizations: a socio-economic network that engages 681,000 employees, 271,000 outside workers and 6,000 temporary workers, while the volunteers are more than 4.8 million. Given these figures, we are therefore faced with an important and virtuous reality in our country. A sector that even represents the first provider of services for citizens; just think that the world of non-profit represents 4% of GDP. In 2014 a public consultation was held on the guidelines of the reform called by the Government, and the bill subsequently presented (always by the Government) took into account the results obtained through the participation of all interested parties. Last year, on 9 April, the House approved an improved text that came to the examination of the Senate's Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which, with further amendments, strengthened the fundamental objective of the reform, namely to create a regulatory framework that favors the active and responsible participation of people, as individuals or in social formations of aggregation, in order to translate the margins of growth and employment of the social economy into concrete opportunities for the sector and for the country in general. The reorganization and rationalization of economic incentives and other support instruments also aim to standardise and coordinate sector legislation that has stratified over time in ways that are also uneven, in order to form a framework that no longer meets the needs of regulation and governance of these fundamental social experiences. Various for organizational structure (acknowledged and unacknowledged associations, foundations, committees, social cooperatives, associations and social promotion agencies, voluntary organizations, non-governmental organisations, mutual aid companies, social enterprises and ONLUS), the realities of the third sector have in common some fundamental characteristics, among which, as already pointed out, the absence of profit, which results in the obligation to reinvest profits in institutional activities, and the private legal nature. Taking a brief look at the merits of the bill, I stress the most qualifying points that the Parliamentary Group of the People's Area has supported. First of all, the legislative review that will have to cover the third sector with the drafting of a special code of the third sector that includes a unified discipline; in a common way it is expected that political associations, trade unions, professional associations and representatives of economic categories and banking foundations are excluded. Therefore, the aim of this measure is to recognise and guarantee the wider exercise of the right of association and the value of the freely constituted social formations, where the personalities of individuals are held, as an instrument for promoting and implementing the principles of democratic participation, solidarity, subsidiarity and pluralism. But, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot talk about the third sector without having two key concepts that the draft law values: solidarity and subsidiarity. Solidarity has as its main meaning a form of personal ethical-social commitment to others. On the other hand, we are all aware that solidarity can only be expressed by integrating itself with the country's social policies in a transparent and effective convergence. Precisely for this reason, the Government, by reforming the third sector, will have to identify the activities of general interest that, carried out through the widest access by the interested parties, also present the requirements to enjoy the facilities provided by the legislation. These activities, identified taking into account the civic, solidarity and social usefulness objectives and differentiated according to the type of entity, are the elements that, as said, characterize the spirit and purpose of the measure. In order for the social solidarity mechanism to function in a virtuous manner, parameters and rules for the functioning of third sector entities must also be established: they must be organised and administered in accordance with the principles of democracy, equality, equal opportunities, participation of associates and workers, transparency, management economics and they will not be able to distribute profits. As far as subsidiarity is concerned, the forecast is in the right direction that the involvement of third sector entities in the spatial planning of socio-assistance services and the protection of cultural goods must be enhanced, with the expectation of services of general interest, and the results achieved should be assessed. Another feature of the third sector is certainly volunteering. On this point, the reform provides for a reconnaissance and a reordering of legislation which favours the participation, democracy and gratuitousness of the activities of these bodies. Volunteering is also intended as a promotion by young people of solidarity initiatives, whose skills will have to be recognized in school and work. But the reform also concerns the social enterprise, which must be framed as a private organization that carries out business activities for civic purposes, solidarity and social utility, assigning its profits primarily to the carrying out of statutory activities and promoting the wider involvement of employees, users and all those interested in its activities and we hope that the implementing decrees will clearly clarify its object, to avoid opaque situations, also gathering stresses and concerns highlighted in the debate. The bill, as already mentioned, also reform the civil service, aimed at the non-armed defence of the Homeland and the promotion of the founding values of the Republic, which will represent, as the President of the Republic said Mattarella, a concrete place of protagonism of young people (...) where their full citizenship matures, understood as rights and duties, and where their opportunities can grow. There is talk of opportunities for growth, knowledge, acquisition of skills to enter the labour market. As many as 100,000 young people will be able to access it each year and it will therefore be up to the State to plan and organize, with the involvement of the Regions, the specific plans by local authorities and third sector bodies, which will be able to activate autonomously civil service projects with their own resources. A further rationalization measure concerns the registration of these institutions: a single register of the third sector will be established, to which all entities that use mainly or permanently public and private funds, collected through public subscriptions and European funds, will have to register. But the strongest and most heartfelt consideration that leads us to vote in favour of this measure concerns the so-called social issue, which is dealt with in this bill. We live in an age in which the numbers of the poor and the unemployed are growing, especially young people, and at the same time, public institutions are increasingly struggling to provide acceptable social benefits to all citizens. Today, it cannot be said that the State, as provided for in the Constitution, does all it can to promote the social and economic conditions and the administrative and institutional conditions that make the right to work effective. The social issue must therefore remain at the centre of the political debate, given the importance of the problems it summarizes, which it addresses and which it tries to solve in many cases. Madam President, this law sets in motion the best resources of the country, its best energies, that willingness to participate in initiatives that contribute to the common good. The human being is made for the gift, but the conditions must be fostered for it to be realized. This is the law that wants to enhance and empower the best part of our Italy, that every day works free of charge and spontaneously in our communities, to bring help to the needy, to those who do not have a home, who are deprived of food, to the abandoned elderly, to the chronic patients without home care, and who first rush when natural disasters occur. The ultimate objective is to achieve an integrated offer of interventions and services in order to ensure the essential level of performance. Proper and targeted help can put so many people in a position to get out of the state of emergency. The third sector is not only a professional commitment, but is first and foremost a form of personal mission and vocation that goes hand in hand with work and extra-work activities and commitments of life and family, truly representing a concrete service for the community. Madam President, as I have said so far, I conclude by saying that the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) is in favour. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u75	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, citizens, before we move on to the content of this draft law, there is one important question that we would like to answer: who wrote this law? I ask this question because the apparent signatures are those of the President of the Council of Ministers and of Minister Poletti, but it is clear that it was not made by them (or, at least, not only by them). Many of the members of the Government and colleagues of this House have ties and interests with this rich and diverse world. However, there are other subjects behind the scenes: perhaps that Vincenzo Manes, super consultant of Matteo Renzi, as well as funder with 62,000 euros of his Open Foundation. It is the same person who speaks of a new IRI of social (...), i.e. a large fund in which public money, private money and contributions from institutions and foundations will flow. Foundations that never know where they are, what they are and who they are. In the course of the examination of the measure, the Government presented an amendment that goes exactly in this direction, preparing in fact to contract the foundation of foundations in the third sector - I am referring to what they wanted to call Fondazione Italia sociale - at the golden enclosure of Leopolda. What did we propose? Simple: to replace the establishment of this foundation with the re-introduction of the Agency for the third sector, cancelled by the Monti Government. The public-private foundation that wants to introduce the Government would instead be yet another manger and center of power in which to place men close to Renzi and from which to manage the flows of financing, without calls or competitions, towards projects of the third sector. With the bill under consideration, Parliament formally delegates the Government, but on a third party commission in the background. Forgive me if this hypothesis offends you, but it is still too little time and it is still alive in me the memory of the undersecretary Baretta when it was discovered that the legislative decree on gambling was written by Italo Volpe of the Agency of Customs and Monopolies. Having said that (which I do not think is a small matter), let us get to the substance of the measure. There are also some positive aspects to this reform - let us call it - such as the new third sector code, the single register of third sector entities, and the many improvements, such as the provision of sanctioning regimes that were not fully discussed. But, as you've been doing for three years now, first with Berlusconi and today with Verdini, the two good things you can put in line are just to go on television to make fun of the Italians [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , saying that surely it could be done better, but something you have done; as if there were an abstract entity holding you back from doing a good thing from beginning to end. No, there is not an abstract entity, but a concrete objective: to convey customer interests and control of consent through regulatory means oriented outwardly to philanthropic purposes. [[Applause from Senator Castaldi]] Said in money, it's Trojan horses. This was the case for that obnoxious electoral reform that you have produced: under the false pretext of reducing costs (which you have not reduced), you have handed democracy over to the party-crats. This was true of the "bad school" and the "deform" of the labour market. Preach badly and scramble badly. We are voting against this draft law by method, because we can no longer delegate it to the Government which has expropriated Parliament and reduced the Parliamentary Republic to a parking space reserved for customers. They are smoky, ambiguous delegations, on which even a beautiful and finite norm ends, like the one that establishes that foundation of second level that not even in the majority - alive god! - she managed to be digestible. The Third Sector Agency, which we proposed, should have been an independent body, set up with the aim of coordinating the different realities of the Third Sector, acting as a liaison with local authorities, monitoring financial flows; but at the same time it had to be removed from the cannibalisation of policy. The backbone of the third sector is ethical, not financial; it is marked by plurality, subsidiarity, proximity to the territory (in front of the territories), not based on the aggregate drive in holding companies financed by private individuals which then opens up lucrative speculations on the management of civil and social rights. Instead you did so by including the profit-making, the remuneration of investment capital, opening the third sector to finance, without limitation to the conflict of interest, to the presence in the supervisory bodies of cooperatives and these private organisations and public bodies. There are, therefore, also major problems with content. They certainly needed instruments, but equally pressing was to ensure that they were independent of political control. It is not only an aesthetic question: this delegation in the hands of the Government risks to worsen the social economy of the country: many small realities will be crushed because of the dominant position guaranteed to a few subjects close to the Government. In addition, they will be limited in their independence through discretion in directing investment and financing. With this bill you even wanted to co-opt voluntary service centres to a spurious function for the benefit of economic operators in the market. Moreover, they are not explicitly excluded from the third sector - as requested by the 5 Star Movement - the political foundations, that is the middle ground where the money of private companies meets with politics. I don't need to explain what it is, you know very well; indeed, many of you are even at the head of it, as in the case of Altero Matteoli with the Foundation of Freedom for the common good, Gaetano Quagliariello with the Magna Carta Foundation, Maurizio Gasparri with the Fondazione Italia protagonist, until you get to Roberto Formigoni, whose head is the Fondazione Europa and civilization, which declares itself only Lombardy and therefore is taken away from state control. It is impossible here not to talk about the aforementioned Open Foundation, which brings together the intimates of the President of the Council, such as undersecretary Luca Lotti, right-hand man Marco Carrai and of course Minister Maria Elena Boschi. Madam President, the assets of the Open Foundation rose in a short time from EUR 20,000 initial to over EUR 2.8 million. If the President of the Council were as interested in the country as he was in his foundation, we would see something better. However, this is clearly not the case and with this delegation we are faced with the crushing of the participatory and social experience of the third sector in the entrepreneurial and privatistic dimension, as has been sanctioned with the article establishing the social enterprise and includes in it also the purposes of profit and redistribution of profits, obviously with the endorsement of the political system and the circulation of money in double direction, in turn, in the relationships we know. Madam President, we do not believe in this vision of societies that have Matteo Renzi and his friends. We believe in a community based on participation, meritocracy, transparency, freedom; freedom also from evil, however, from clientele, lobbyists, organized crime and reform vendors "a lot to the pound." We had very clear what was to be rewarded and what was to be avoided. We had the opportunity to tell the country that degenerations like those seen with Mafia Capitale would no longer happen, because these regulatory instruments would prevent it, they would prevent to doubt a virtuous sector because of a few rotten apples. One opportunity has been missed and, Madam President, in politics omission is fault. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u78	GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have before us a draft law delegated to the Government on the third sector, written and amended by the Government itself. At this point I wonder why the instrument of the decree-law was not chosen, perhaps to be armored with a matter of trust. However, this choice is even worse, because the House consciously decides to ratify such a broad and general delegation, more like a recommendation than a binding measure. So the Senate legislates not to legislate: a real legislative paradox. We are called to give up totally our main role in favour of an Executive that has repeatedly demonstrated its inability to use the delegations; a debauchery of power that of course does not scandalize majority and company, which will certainly approve the bill without blinking an eye. But returning to the heart of the measure, it deals with the third sector: a varied, multifaceted world, located in an intermediate position between public and private, of which it represents the natural glue, totally different from the middle world past to the horror of the chronicles. Precisely because of this multiformity, it was not only necessary, but fundamental a regulatory intervention that simplified the panorama of non-profit, that made more clarity on the subject, especially in the light of the criminal developments that increasingly invest the world of non-profit, and defined specific limits and boundaries to the work of the subjects that constitute this sector. The creation of a single text containing all the rules of the third sector, provided for in the measure under consideration, is the right answer to this need but, unfortunately, it is also the only positive note of the delegation, which for the rest is the usual mess to which a good executive has accustomed us in the titles and inconclusive in the substance. Titles like those we have learned in the last two years, such as when this Executive has defined "reform" a measure, which hides only a legislative reorganization whose real beneficiary is only and exclusively Palazzo Chigi: just think of the constitutional reform, that of the school and - not least - the reform of the banking system. The reasons for this interest are given by the numbers of the third sector: we are talking about a turnover of 64 billion euros, constantly increasing in recent years, and a working contribution of 4.7 million volunteers, 681,000 employees, 270,000 outside workers and 5,000 temporary workers. In the Italian production fabric, non-profit therefore occupies a significant position, with 6.4 percent of the active economic units. It is clear, therefore, the role that the third sector has in replacing the provision of welfare services, where the State, the Regions and the Municipalities continue to complain and to decrease their social services due to the continuous linear cuts made by the most recent laws of public finance. This bill, as stated above, should have encouraged good practice and countered illicit practices; on the contrary, it represents only a useful intervention for the Government to cash in and increase its skills and power over this sector, increasing confusion, with the creation of a hybrid social enterprise model, which risks having very little social. I refer, in particular, to Article 6, which provides that the social enterprise shall devote its profits mainly to the achievement of social objectives. Well, with the choice of the adverb "predominantly" a dichotomy is created for which enterprises that, having in their social object the creation of a positive material impact on society were bound to pursue this purpose, could from now on legally exercise an activity of capitalist enterprise, while continuing to take advantage of public financing. An unfair competition between different types of companies in the country is likely to be endorsed by the law of the State. This situation is aggravated by Article 7, which assigns the functions of control and monitoring of the sector to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy through the promotion of forms of self-control of the bodies in the sector: so we create a sort of uroboro, so the Controller guarantees his own work. Is this a gap or a lack of attention? No, this is a conscious choice by the Government to circumvent any form of effective control: proof of this is the repeated refusal to modify this system including the collaboration of the Revenue Agency or the Government Jolly, the National Anti-Corruption Authority (NAAC). These are the decisions that show that it is clear that the Commission prefers a sector with indeterminate and smoky borders. The indeterminateness, however, is not evident in the allocation to the Presidency of the Council of the coordination of government policies and actions to promote and direct the activities of associations and entities in the third sector. This is a centralization of power which Forza Italia does not share and which we consider to favour only a greater burden on the structure of the central state to the detriment of the regional competence in this matter, recognized by the Constitution itself, and the principle of subsidiarity. It is therefore an attempt to make the third sector a hunting ground for the Government, manifested with the crazy amendment, in which the creation, with public funds, of the Fondazione Italia sociale, presented first in the Commission, but withdrawn because of the strong resistance of the oppositions, is expected to be re-proposed in this Chamber and approved a few minutes ago, with only a handful of votes. (at 19.10 a.m.) (Following GALIMBERTI). It is a public-private foundation, a new IRI of the third sector, that faithfully reproduces the style of Palazzo Chigi and the left, accustomed to creating carrozzoni of clientele character in order to allow the Premier to rake funds to manage them at will, without calls or competitions, financing only the subjects of own interest: yet another state armchair, a bit like the future Senate. Once again, this Government has given confirmation of how the use of power is exclusively directed to the pursuit of its own purposes and not to favor the real recovery of our Country and it is for this reason and for the critical issues outlined above that I announce the contrary vote of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u81	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, senators and senators, the debate in this House, but before this, too, the debate in the Chamber, has shown a wealth of experience which is a solid experience shared by many of us. The third sector has in recent years found spaces for an almost tumultuous development, which has shown so many potentialities with experiences of growth and consolidation, but has also highlighted the fragility of small and fragmented experiences. The time devoted to the work of comparison and listening that was done on the occasion of this delegation made us understand how much this sector waited for this measure, but also how much this measure was seen in some way with concern. It is a mosaic that gives back a vast complexity, of course, but it also gives back the awareness that we need to exercise responsibility today to give answers that adapt the legislative instruments on some aspects, clarify others and above all open new opportunities. Volunteering has strong motivations that cannot find in the legislative context elements of concern, and the delegation creates that framework that was lacking to give confidence, while referring to the various laws of the sector, which are nevertheless recognized as valid in their specificity and which will compose parts of the code of the third sector. But it is precisely in this sort of dualism made of improving the current structures and predisposition to seize new possibilities that the delegation moves, because every complexity brings with it problems and opportunities. If we thought today only to adapt a system of norms to a world like that of volunteering it would surely be reductive for a world that, following the gratuitousness, evolves quickly and can only open new ways. Moving along this line I emphasize some aspects of complexity, starting from the different stories that have developed on the national territory. On several occasions referred to Article 118 of the Constitution has been declined in the different ways in which the individual regions have coordinated the implementation of subsidiarity. Even the individual social and cultural models that make up the wealth of our country, have caused important differences between the various territories in the organization of the third sector. Finally, the areas of integration that have developed between local authorities, third sector and entrepreneurial fabric, in the various parts of Italy have given rise to different contexts. For example, such social cooperation is the natural evolution of volunteering that is able to face the challenges of quality, accreditation, professionalism, helping to give appropriate answers in a framework of subsidiarity where the public body does not get rid of services because it is not able, but on the contrary, precisely because a public body capable and efficient, knows how to organize the integrated management of services. Also on the social entrepreneurship front, the delegation looses some constraints of the current discipline (legislative decree no. 155 of 2006) that will allow a greater number of organizations to acquire the qualification. At the same time, innovative tools for social enterprises will soon have to be accessible and easy to use to be deployed, in response to a number of emerging needs: for example, new poverty that can be addressed through targeted pathways of job reintegration that engage people and demographic challenges, the ageing of the population and the growing demand for residential and home services. Social entrepreneurship and the sectors in which it operates are already a source of youth employment. It can become a source of jobs for young people, for example, in the social tourism and social agriculture sectors, especially in the Mezzogiorno. In the same way the different regional stories of the service centers for volunteering related to the associative fabric, with the delegation they open to a future able to support the current articulation and to welcome the innovations that are already being born. Another element of complexity is the dimensional range characterizing our third sector, often made up of small entities capable of capillaries but not always of organicity, with weak second level networks that are now recognized and valued through the National Council of the third sector. The uneven organizational and corporate form of third sector entities sometimes creates instability. With the delegation the differences between the different organizational formulas of the third sector are clarified, central objective that the government had emphasized. The delegated decrees will have to rewrite the rules that apply with a view to clarity and simplicity and will have to put in place innovative tools suitable to provide answers to the emerging needs to which the third sector in general today responds. The checks must be substantial and not formal or cumbersome. From this point of view it is important that the decrees define the rules upstream in a clear and simple way, in particular on tax discipline. From this point of view, the new procurement code on which Parliament is working is central and decisive. A specific thought goes to young people. A reform of the third sector that could not make room for young people would be a failure, even considering what is before our eyes, namely the progressive increase in the average age of the population, including that of volunteers. Thinking of young people means imagining that the gratuitousness of which they are able must be able to write new stories, walk new paths, take care of new needs, enrich our communities with sensitivity, transform the momentum into competences. An example of all that topicality proposes us as a clear and obvious link is the fight against food waste, with a bill recently approved in the House: a new area of voluntary commitment and not only that meets the attention of young people. Here the reform of universal civil service is grafted: it is one of the aspects on which the Government has focused most. The reform must now be the driving force to focus youth policies on this institution, which has been an exceptional tool in recent years for the activation of NEETs (young NEETs not in education, employment or training). Specifically the changes made to the Chamber text, I note the modification of the definition of third sector, which becomes a legal category. It is also important to ensure that economic conditions in public procurement are not lower than those laid down in national collective labour agreements adopted by the most representative trade unions. There is also a complete revision of the system of voluntary service centres, to which all third sector bodies can contribute, except for social cooperatives and social enterprises, and the overcoming of the system of national observatories for volunteering and social promotion associations, through the establishment of the National Council of the third sector, as a unitary body for consultation of third sector entities at national level, whose composition enhances the role of the second level associative networks. It changes the qualification of the social enterprise and clarifies its position within the third sector, overcoming, appropriately, the definition f) of the Chamber, which identified the social enterprise for the objective of generating a positive social impact, instead placing in an appropriate way the issues of the impact in Article 7. For sectors, it is now expected that they will be identified within the activities of general interest as a whole for the third sector, which will be defined in the legislative decrees. Change the formulation of the distribution of profits in social enterprises with a more precise and coherent formula There will be a redefinition of the categories of disadvantaged workers, taking into account the new forms of social exclusion, including the principles of equal opportunities and non-discrimination. The ex-civil code budget obligation for social enterprises is inserted. Where an entity in the first book of the Civil Code takes on the status of a social enterprise, it shall be subject to the same fundamental obligations as undertakings' own accounting transparency. Let me conclude by saying that it is essential that the bureaucratic burdens that all existing organisations will have to face in order to cope with the changes in the reform are simplified to the maximum and not burdensome for the third sector. If we face the chapter of the resources put in place, it is appropriate to recall the main choices made by the Renzi Government. With the 2015 law of stability we have stabilized the 5 per thousand with a budget of 500 million euros and we have raised to 30,000 euros per year (compared to the previous 2.065 euros) the maximum amount deductible from the gross tax, for the liberal payments in money made by the natural persons in favor of the ONLUS and the subjects to these assimilated. A MISE decree of last year establishes an aid scheme aimed at supporting the birth and growth of companies operating throughout the national territory for the pursuit of general interests and purposes of social utility. This decree, written by the MISE in agreement with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, intervenes with a new facility of soft financing on the Rotary Fund for support to enterprises, with a capacity set at 200 million euros. With the 2016 Stability Act, we have already included the funding for the implementation of the reform that we will soon approve: 140 million euros for 2016 that will become 190 in 2017 and 2018. Finally, the project fund for voluntary associations set up under Article 9 and funded under Article 10 with EUR 17 million for 2016. Finally, with regard to the Fondazione Italia sociale, which has been the subject of various speeches in this House, I would like to stress only one aspect which I think can be seen without hesitation. In fact, this instrument does not change the sign of reform, entering the third sector and making unfair competition with those who collect private resources. On the other hand, there is a tool that seeks to recover resources on the one hand, which no one is able to recover today, in order to put them on the other hand, at the disposal of large projects. In order to do this, we need a structured and credible entity, which allows these types of donors, which no one can activate today, to become active in the social field. This reform adds another piece to the modernisation process that we are putting in place in the country. If you allow me to move along the lines of a double sense, I say that our society is true that it needs to adapt its institutions, it is true that it must become more competitive in its productive fabric, it is true that it must invest in the school, but, like all societies that want to make investments, it must be capitalized. Here, with this reform we make an increase in the share capital of Italy. I therefore declare the Democratic Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u82	Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1870 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD Group.]] The draft law No 157 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u85	Mr Lepri, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to say a very quick but not formal thank you to all my colleagues for the trust they have given me, and a special thanks to the members of the 1st Commission and its President. I would also like to express a recognition, once again non-formal, of the great professionalism that all the collaborators of the Senate have shown this time too. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u88	Mr Bobba, State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy. Mr President, I join with the rapporteur's thanks, starting with himself, the President of the Commission and all those who have worked. It was a job - as some of the senators recalled - that was not compressed at all. There has been a phase of listening to the organizations and subjects of the third sector, there has been an important work in the House and an equally important work here in the Senate. The delegation comes out improved, clarified, more precise and more addressed to the crucial objective that the Government set itself: to achieve what was contained in Article 118 of the Constitutional Charter reformed in 2001, i.e. fifteen years ago, according to which the institutions all, beginning with the Senate, promote the autonomous initiative of citizens, individuals and associates, for carrying out activities of general interest, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. This is the heart of the reform and this will be the essential direction of the implementing decrees, which will give effect to the whole of this provision approved today by the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that at the end of the sitting some committees are to meet for the examination of the decree-law on cooperative credit, I shall refer the discussion of the remaining items to the agenda for another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u92	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to point out that, once again, Sardinia is the victim of an intolerable criminal scourge, which is affecting the property, the homes and the people involved in public administration with cowardly attacks. It is a scourge that has been fueled in recent years by systematic, punctual and increasingly fierce aggression towards politics and that makes no distinction between those who dedicate their existence to the general interest and those who, instead, take advantage of politics to obtain illicit enrichments. Many honest local administrators, many mayors of small municipalities, many young municipal councillors, in the lands of discomfort and disadvantage, risk their lives on time to devote themselves to the general interest, to support in the most useful ways the rights of the citizens they administer. In these days there is a very strong increase in Sardinia: local administrations have been affected mainly in the area of the Nuorese and the inland areas of Sardinia. In this parliamentary term, through the Commission, which is well-directed and governed by my colleague Mr Lo Moro, we have dealt with the problem of intimidation and attacks on the local administrators of Sardinia and the rest of Italy, and we have unanimously defined and approved in this House some proposals that have been made to the Government. These proposals are contained in the final report on the work of that Commission, but are still largely unimplemented and not yet transposed by the Government through concrete acts and regulatory provisions. These proposals we propose to the Government and we will do so with a joint initiative of several parliamentarians of Sardinia, to also draw the Minister Alfano to an attention that he had promised and that we still do not register, in a particular way in our Sardinia. This is the meaning of my speech, which wants to end with the expression of solidarity between myself and my Group towards all the local administrators of Sardinia, and not only, who have been intimidated and attacked these days. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u93	Thank you, Senator Uras. The Presidency supports its solidarity.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u96	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are disturbing events in Sicily that, without careful information, but above all without the courage of those administrators who raise their heads and denounce, would remain hidden in the meander of bureaucracy. It happened that in Furnari, in the province of Messina, a land owned by the Sicilian Region, which in 1991 had been estimated to be worth 300 million old lire, twenty-five years later, in 2016, is sold for less than 4,000 euros. It happens that the lucky buyer is related to the person in charge of the proceedings of the office of the civil genius of Messina. It happens that the procedure in question is vividly spoiled by multiple irregularities and illegality denounced in good time. Finally, it happened that, following the denunciation, of the mayor of Furnari, the story was brought to the chronicles by a well-known television broadcast and only then the Sicilian governor Rosario Crocetta seems to have noticed the story. It happened that the same Crocetta immediately announced great actions to verify the regularity of the procedures, but it also happens that the attorney of the State, representing the regional administration that he led, denied it in fact justifying the sale of the property. That of Furnari, colleagues, is not an isolated case at all. Also in the municipalities of Porto Empedocle and Stromboli there are sales between the Sicilian Region and private subjects as a result of payments of derisory sums. The bond of kinship between the protagonists of the affair is very disturbing and not surprising that Governor Crocetta, once again with his back against the wall, has chosen again the game of the three cards. Again, Crocetta will tell of the right hand that does not know what the left does, but this time we are warning the national government in time. Also in Stromboli and Porto Empedocle the Region sold to private individuals in exchange for ludicrous sums. Nobody pretends not to know tomorrow. We have asked a question to ask the government what it intends to do about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u99	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, close to the 7th anniversary of the tragic earthquake that struck L'Aquila on 6 April 2009, in which 309 people lost their lives, the great deception of the committee is unfortunately still present in the minds of the eagle people, to the point that this afternoon a demonstration took place to recall the funny media with which on 30 March 2009 the team of scientists, under the insignificant leadership of Commander Bertolaso, mistakenly reassured the population of the risks and dangers of serious seismic shocks imminent. We cannot be alarmed at all, but we cannot be reassured either. Guido Bertolaso, shamefully returned to the political scene of Rome with his candidacy as mayor, strongly wanted by the "Berlusconian" Berlusconi, is accused in the trial great risks bis and has an indictment for crimes of multiple manslaughter and injuries for that phone call that he made to the former regional councilor Abruzzo to civil protection, in which he announced the famous meeting of March 30 as a purely media passage to reassure the population from possible risks of seismic shocks. Media passages that Mr. Renzi also learned. The phone call, according to the prosecution, had the effect of leading scientists at the same meeting to argue that the need to avoid alarmism and superficially assess the real risk of what would happen was necessary. Mr Bertolaso has repeatedly announced in recent weeks that he does not want to escape the trial, but that he must submit himself to the full judgment of the court in L'Aquila. So, the announcements so far have not followed the facts since it has not yet filed any formal act. I agree with Mrs Pezzopane on the request to set up a committee of inquiry into the work of the committee of major risks, but the first act due is the filing of the waiver of the prescription, which must be done at the Registry of the Tribunale Aquilano, as it is announced in all broadcasts. My colleague, at the time, also beside the politicians of the territory, is therefore making herself the spokesperson for this need. How long is Bertolaso going to make fun of the Roman citizens? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u102	GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, once again I am speaking - this is the third - on the issue of group C meningitis in Tuscany. Today's news is that a fifty-eight-year-old woman, who lives in Santa Croce sul'Arno, is serious. The woman was vaccinated on 2 March for C-type meningococcal medicine and is currently hospitalized in the intensive care rooms of the hospital San Giuseppe in Empoli. Procedures for prophylaxis were initiated immediately, but the numbers in Tuscany begin to be worrying: 18 cases of C-type meningitis since the beginning of 2016 and 4 deaths. In 2015, still in Tuscany, the cases were 38 and the dead 7. Meningitis cases don't stop. The Tuscany Region is doing its utmost and the Councillor Saccardi is rightfully continuing to renew the call to vaccination, but vaccinations should be promoted not only through an appeal, but also by encouraging doctors with a further compensation and vaccination centers by extending the time of vaccinations and increasing resources. Above all, the Higher Institute of Health should immediately initiate a retrospective and prospective survey of the trend in the most affected group of healthy carriers through pharyngeal swabs, but also a more precise and well-defined study. Finally, I am obliged to thank the Senate medical clinic for collecting the appeal I made in the previous surgery. The vaccine is available for Tuscan senators who want to immunize at the medical clinic. It seems to me that this is a very commendable and important initiative.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u103	We all thank the medical garrison and the director Marini because this is an important thing.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u106	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are concerned because only a few days ago at the annual assembly of Confcooperatives there was described an Umbria in difficulty, which failed to engage the recovery, but above all there are statistics that testify to a marked decline: -8 per cent compared to the GDP of the other Italian regions. It is precisely these hours the news that the Rome-Perugia connection managed by Etihad, or Alitalia, will be suppressed and substantially brought to zero. This worries us very much because an active Region will be completely cut off and forgotten by the system of national connections. To move around during the day, if you don't use the car there are no fast means to reach other European capitals: to get to Rome by train it takes two and a half hours if it's okay; to move by car with the road E45 is a peripezia and the air connection from the airport located in the locality Sant'Egidio will be eliminated. Therefore we are very concerned and we would like to understand from the competent minister (and we will do it with acts of inspection union in the next few days) what is the national strategy of the airports, what strategy there is on the connections, because in front of a Region that remains out of the main nodal connection at the airport level, that it has no connections from the railway point of view and has difficulty of transport road, comes to wonder if we are in Italy or in the Third world. There are no policies in place by the Region and there are no policies on the part of the State and the Government. We must be clear on these matters: either we make connections or we are cut off and GDP can only plummet. We want certainties; we want clarity from the Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u109	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, thank you for your kindness in giving me the floor even though I did not ask in advance. I would like to support what Senator Uras has just said, namely the need to bring to the House the draft law drawn up following the work of the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators and which incorporates its indications. I believe that it is a concrete moment to be close to the administrators who have suffered attacks, compared to the many words of solidarity that are being spent at this time by the whole political apparatus, beginning with the President of the Republic, the President of the Region of Sardinia, the President of the Regional Council, by us senators and certainly by the whole political class. Tomorrow, however, these administrators will be alone again, so I believe that a law, formulated following the findings of the work of a Commission of Inquiry that knows these issues well, can be the harbinger of that initiative that must aim to expose those who have carried out attacks that often remain in the shadows. [[Applause from Senator Uras.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u112	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask a few questions. The first one is the 4-04474, concerning the case of the private supervisory firm "La Sicurezza" Srl which, moreover, is one of those companies that I attended in September 2015 to the prefect of Naples, which today gives me therefore in a certain sense reason. I therefore urge the Ministers responsible to answer this question. There is another question which has not yet been answered. I know very well that, as has happened several times, even if they do not receive an answer, an administrative procedure is initiated with questions. However, nothing has been done with regard to the question I am referring to, which concerns compulsory placement. I would remind all of us that there are lists containing the names of people who are socially disadvantaged or because of personal handicaps. In the Province of Naples we have received some reports of anomalies. I recall that the current Government has changed the legislation, which we have opposed. The current legislation requires companies to choose people at random, or at any rate nominally, while first they had to draw from a list. I have been told that there have been people who for years (not two or three, but twenty years) are not called and others who have been called despite being there for less years. That is why we have tabled Question No 4-02094, to which we hope the Minister for Labour and Social Policy will respond, because we want to see if there have also been some trastles within the software that manage the lists.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u113	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-600.ana.u114	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 31 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.47 p.m.
